tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. According to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The fifth round includes the Ministry of the European Union, the Turkish Accreditation Agency, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, the General Directorate of State Theatres, the President of Turkey's Writing Works, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, and the budget and final accounts. 1) The Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of the European Union Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Accreditation Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2012 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2014 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Final Account for 2012 The Commission and the Government are in place. Our lawmakers who want to ask questions about the budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. Now, in the fifth round, I'm reading the names of the members who have been spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Van MP Nazmi Gür, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Erzurum MP Fazilet Dağcı Terçı, Afyonkarahisar MP Halil Çilıt, Konya MP Kerim Özkul, Mardin MP Gönl Bekin Şakulubey, Elazığ MP Zü Demirbağ, İstanbul MP Gülay Dalyan, Malatya MP Öznur Çalak, Mersin MP Nebi Bozkurt, Samsun MP Cemal Yılmaz Demir, Antalya MP Hüseyin Samani, Düzce MP Fevai Arslan. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: İzmir MP Oguz Oyan, Muğla MP Tolga Çaldar, Antalya MP Yıldıay Sapan, İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük, Army MP İdris Yıldız, Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen, Bilecik MP Bahattin Şeker, İğdir MP Sinan Oğan. In the name of the individuals: Leinden, Mersin MP Çifdem Münevver Ökçı and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu will speak against him. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the first statement belongs to Van MP Nazmi Gür. Here you go, Mr. Gür. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0002par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of the European Union in the World Financial Budget Bill 2014. I salute you all. I'd like to begin my talk by remembering Mehmet Reşit Al-Sabil, Veysel Al-Sabil, and Bemal Toyçur, who died two days ago, as the police shot him dead. In fact, this recent police massacre is a meaningful introduction as a result of the assessment of the EU Ministry, which I have promised to implement policies that will bring us to high democratic standards. So first, the right to live. No doubt it is respect for the right to live that will lead us to Europe. Since 2005, Turkey has started negotiations for membership in the European Union. As a party, from the beginning, we supported the European Union integration process and the negotiation process at every opportunity. Turkey's aim and policies to integrate into the West can, in fact, be taken to the founding of the republic. In the end, what we're coming to is the ongoing accession talk with the EU and the opening of 13 chapters. In 2005, when the negotiations first started, I believed that... my hopes of reaching a more democratic and pluralistic structure with the country's politics, economy and social life across Turkey had increased, and all of us had increased hope. This hope, frankly, is not due to the AKP's power and its democratic reflex within itself, even with a European index. This was a bit of a process imposed by the European Union, which, for some reason, the AKP governments tried to pragmatically take advantage of the process, in their own favour. Why do I say that? Because the legal and constitutional guarantee of basic human rights, the establishment of an impartial, independent judiciary, the establishment of all rights and respect of all the peoples living in the country based on pluralism, could only bring us closer to the European Union, but in the past time, we're all living witnesses. Now, in the course of about nine years, it's not even three basic principles and practice that I've just listed, and every citizen in this country feels up to their bones, and we all know that. Aside from the lack of consensus in parliament on a democratic and civil constitution, the AKP, which has the power to change a lot of laws in one night, has been persistent in protecting the antidemocratic laws left by the 12 September regime. Most important of all, the Anti-Terror Law is undoubtedly the main source of human rights violations today. In the European Union's 2013 Progress Report, especially referring to the new constitution study, it is required to ensure that the new constitution be granted a force separation system based on respect for human rights, including freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, and the rights of minorities. In new constitutional studies, the Venice Commission emphasises that the start of consultations can have a positive impact on the process. The AKP government, however, has not taken the slightest step in the European Union's integration process in particular. A meaningless presidency played an important plug in the preparation of this new democratic constitution, forcing the semi-presidential system. Again, democratic steps that need to be taken in the judicial system have not been taken. Predicted and persistently ignored an independent demand for judgment in the European Union progress reports, some of which have not been met, unfortunately. This request is not only because the European Union demands it, but because the independent judicial process, which is required by our country, which is really independent, is, unfortunately, neglected by the packages that everyone, especially the AKP, will need in the first place. Dear friends, in this context, EU legislation on long imprisonment and fair trial, which has now become a punishment, has unfortunately been ignored. By the way, my condolences to Mr. Balbay. With the Constitutional Court's decision, I hope that all members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is currently under arrest, especially our party's MP, will begin their work under oath in this Parliament. And that's why I'm making that wish. Dear friends, the right to protest and protest, which is a basic right, has really been taken underfoot in Turkey. The suppression of these demonstrations using disproportionate force is undoubtedly one of the most important problems we face in the integration process of the European Union, due to the extraordinary privileges of the police, due to the policy of punishment against the police. Again, the last time we saw demonstrations that we witnessed almost every day in the Gezi Resistance and Kurdistan, forced suppression and obstruction has been routine, especially over the past two years. During travel events, six people lost their lives in demonstrations throughout Turkey, valuable friends, dozens of people injured, lost their eyes and ears. Immediately after these events, our citizen, Medeni Yıldırım, who was protesting the construction of the outpost in lice, lost his life by police fire, and the last three of our citizens, Veysel Jessez, Mehmet Reşit İsbil and Bemal Toçik, lost their lives in the police fire, while protesting the destruction of PKK guerrillas in Turkey's southeastern province. These losses are the only ones that have stood out in the last seven months. Since the nation's state construction, the largest rights violation in this country has constituted a right-of-life violation, and there has been no positive step towards changing the state's dirty past during the AKP administration, and no positive step has been taken, not faced with the facts. On the contrary, state violations of human rights, particularly the right to live, continue to increase. This attitude is not a love for democracy, but a fear of democracy, and it has nothing to do with advanced democracy. Dear friends, today collective rights as much as individual rights and freedoms continue to fall under the government's influence. For many years, the freedom we have fought for the language, culture, identity of the Kurdish people has entered a new phase of peace talks between Mr. Ocalan and the state delegation in the past few months. As a reflection of the heavy destruction of the peoples of the war over the past 30 years, it is possible to say that a positive attitude towards the process has developed in all the citizens of Turkey. As much as the Kurds, the Turkish people no longer want more bloodshed, and the solution to the Kurdish problem in democratic, political ways has provided a general public acceptance, a general consensus. If it were not so, the meeting with Mr. Ocalan (Mr. Ocalan) in the Imranite today would have caused a great deal of influence in society. Therefore, we can say that the people are ready for peace, equality, and democracy, much more than any period. There is a broad belief that the non-prepared is the AKP's power, which shows the will to start the process, but prevents its development and progress. The AKP's government does not take the necessary steps to resolve our country's most fundamental problem through the total democratic construction of the country, which is often expressed in EU progress reports. In this regard, political power does not take the historical opportunity it has gained well. We are prepared to take democratic steps, to motivate, encourage, encourage the government to solve, encourage, by means of democratic principles and practices within the framework of the European Union's most fundamental problems. We are also prepared to support every step of the government, every democratic step of the way. However, I'm afraid I have to say that the Ministry of the European Union has nothing to do with it. Mr. President, valued lawmakers should be seen in particular as a strategic goal for Turkey's membership in the European Union and, in general, our country's democraticisation as a whole, on the basis of equality, freedom and peace, to build a better future for lawmakers and enforcers. Tactical calculations towards EU membership and democratisation and handling EU criteria in their own interest, as he understands, the approach does not democratize our country, but it does take away those goals. Again, tactical calculations towards EU membership and democratisation and approaches that address EU criteria in their own interest do not bring democracy to our country, does not improve democracy. In this scope, especially in the last two years, the government's various officials, especially Mr. Prime Minister, have been opposed to a strong opinion that the government has increasingly turned its face from Europe; this, dear friends, is the basis of the EU's repeated demand and practice of negotiations with the EU and practice. Again, such an approach strongly demonstrates that the government has demonstrated a sense of democracy only in its own interests, and yet, if the AKP benefits its government, if it benefits its allies, it follows a democraticisation and EU negotiations. In the last 11 years of power, government officials feel that they now rely less on the EU to protect their power. This is a general criticism, a general approach. This approach is pragmatic and tactical. But universal democracy can't be dealt with by the simple accounts and interests of any power, and it's impossible to expect a real democracy to settle in this way. For this reason, what we, as the BDP, expect from the EU ministry and other government bodies, Turkey is the establishment of a new rule of law in accordance with EU integration laws, universal law principles, and it is one of the most important, key tasks of government, to fully comply with the entire Copenhagen political criteria that we are committed to. It's our hope that this will come to life as soon as possible. The democratic steps expected from the government, especially the Kurdish issue, are radically taken without delay, for Turkey's democratisation and the country's problems to be resolved. Fear of democracy will only divert and stall the demand for democracy that humanity and ultimately all of Turkey will need, the need for democracy that our people need. In the short term, it may be useful to the AKP, but in the long run, it will cause a great loss to our peoples. Dear friends, the steps expected from Turkey in the process of EU negotiations do not coincide with the democratic steps we have asked for by everyone who has been oppressed, discriminated against, democratic rights imposed in Turkey. The AKP's steps do not meet the demands of us, the oppressed, the democratic forces in Turkey. In this respect, the struggle for freedom and democracy of Kurds over the years and the democratic reflex he created in society should be seen as a win for Turkey on its way to the EU. We really care about the opening of the Coordination of Regional Policy and Structural Tools, which was declared in the EU 2013 Turkey Progress Report, and you know that we have given serious support to the opening of this chapter. However, this chapter cannot be evaluated with a pure perspective of development and economic development. The main reason for the economic and social precipitation of our country's region is that it's been a single, oppressive and assimilationist policy on different ethnic and identityes over the years. So, this chapter, this assimilator, the immediate abandonment of these monotheistic policies, the closure of intergalactic development differences, and ultimately the democratic, prosperous, and, in the end, the fact that Turkey deserves, the use of this chapter to help improve its quality of life will serve to open this chapter. Dear friends, we believe that including all the opposition, including our party, and all the NGOs in the region -- especially local -- is a serious gain in Turkey's negotiations process. We as BDP keep saying that the solid, centralist structure of the Republic of Turkey is a coup against the plurality and wealth of this country. It has also been discussed in the latest progress report on strengthening local governances or removing the recession set on the European Local Administration Autonomous Condition. Once again, on behalf of our party, we demand that this condition be approved and implemented by Turkey as soon as possible. Again, in parallel with this, the report highlighted that, as proposed by the Council of Europe's Convention on Local and Regional Management, official steps have not been taken for the adoption of public services, especially for the legalisation of languages outside of Turkish, especially Kurdish, have been announced earlier. All of this remains intact on the list of things Turkey should do on its way to the EU. Dear friends, the European Union Progress Report came out positively this year, you know. This positive approach, I think, should be of great importance to both the government and the Ministry of the European Union. It's a huge support for them to take radical steps, a huge motivation. Last year, you know, reports of the European Union's criticism went to waste. This year, for some reason, the package that Mr. Prime Minister announced under the democratic package, has been announced a week before this Progress Report, and eventually, as positive steps to the report, again, is the greatest proof of why this package was originally explained. Because this year, the European Union Progress Report survived at the last minute. Once again, we want to say that not just for himself, but for the Kurds, but for all the oppressed people in Turkey, for the people who are oppressed, for the people, for the environment, I want to finish by listing the three basic demands that the Kurdish people have for the environment. It is our most basic demand that all identities be guaranteed for a constitution, a democratic and free constitution, so that all identities can live equally and freely in Turkey. Again, the right to education in the native language is our most basic requirement. Democratic autonomy is our most basic demand. This is where I stop speaking in the hope that 2014 will bring peace, freedom and equality to all the peoples of the world, especially in our country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0003par0078	Thank you, Mr. Gür. Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0004par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, good morning and good day. Dear friends, I have made a promise regarding the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Of course, culture and tourism are really important, but whatever we're talking about is really very important, we've certainly put a policy into that as little as we can, so that's our past practice. We say health is also very important, and education is very important, but unfortunately, we find that our work with sectors, institutions, organizations, is unfortunately way below the world average. Dear friends, culture is the main element from the past to the present, from today to tomorrow, which has already led to the existence of a nation of its own, the highway, as we call it today. Tourism, however, is one of the most important sectors of the new world, in our time, where hundreds of millions of people are rapidly growing around the world and traveling for different reasons every year, affected by each other for different reasons. We took two of them, put them in the same Ministry, and we gave this Ministry as much symbolic budget as we could, and a little bit of authority. Now, of course, there are notes in front of me, and there are notes about my region, and there are notes about Turkey, but I believe that when the Minister takes the order of these, what he's going to say is: here's what he's going to say, here's what he's going to say, here's what he's going to say, here's been done, this is how much work has been done, this is how much work has been started, so I'm going to start by saying in the end, in order to answer all of these reasons, first, we need to discuss the authority of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism correctly; two, we need to discuss its budget correctly; three, so we need to discuss its staff correctly. So, like that famous saying, there are 100 reasons when the war is lost, say the first reason. The commander says, "Here, there was no gunpowder." He says, "Now, for the first reason, don't count the rest." Therefore, in discussions about a ministry whose powers are not defined, whose staff are not sufficient, and its budget is not sufficient, our point of view is only mutual rhetoric. The confusion of authority is also an important problem. Today, there is a confusion in authority over many issues involving tourism and Culture Ministry in Turkey. An important historical heritage is the embezzlement of the General Directorate of the Foundations, and a significant portion of which is taken care of by the county's private administration. So there's also a lack of coordination. So, when we bring these issues up again, these jurisdictional debates are coming up. And with these arguments of authority, the ball remains in the middle, as the people call it, unclaimed. Now, after this entry, I'd like to address some issues with my region, and I hope that the Minister will take care of them and inform us of these matters, and beyond knowledge, at least a faster act. Dear friends, our region has a wonderful, wonderful cultural heritage, so I don't know where to begin. The walls of Diyarbekir are five and a half kilometers long, still standing in all its glory, and after the Great Wall of China, the world's most important city walls, its castle, 82 signaries. There's work on it, it's not that, but unfortunately, it's going at an ant speed. There's the walls, there's Diyarbekir, and we're here, and when we go and look at them, we're going to have projects, we're going to have studies, we're going to be done, we're doing something, but unfortunately it's going to be very heavy. Likewise, we have an Ishale. It's also a restoration study of the Ministry of Tourism Culture, which has taken many years, and it's almost over, but it's about to be handled again, and it's going to be accelerated, and it's going to have to be transformed into a place that has a human daily movement; it's going to have to be living in their cafeterias, restaurants, museums. Sadly, the destruction and cleansing of the interior has not yet ended. Here comes the question of authority. The housing reserve for the houses that were destroyed by the Public Housing Authority has run out, no new tenders. If you bid today, it takes two years, and it takes another important time. Beyond that, there is an Artuklu Palace in the same Ishkale. Before that, it was still used as a palace, and before that, but not even a single dig has begun yet, where it stands. In the debate again for a long time, Mardin Castle came between the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Defense. Mr. Ertugrul, we've also been involved in the days of the sun. The State Department of Defense says the facilities are to be built elsewhere. The Ministry of Culture says my budget is not available. The state's private administration says I'm not strong enough. Finally, we hear there's been another protocol signed, but where is it? Unfortunately, there is no study here that we see, or rather what the public sees, which is called the people's so-called "casma" hit. In the same way, the Dara ruins are as important as Hasankeyf, as important as Efes, as Bergama. I don't think even much of our Parliament has heard the name of Dara, a garrison city built in 353, on the road to Mardin-Nusaybin. The dams, dams, castles, palaces built at that time are now visible to the naked eye. There's no serious work in Dara, as I said, symbolic work. Dear friends, the Midyat site has been declared, but since the Midyat site has been declared, there are now three or four old mansions there that need to be restored immediately -- so leave the entire site -- that need to be restored, to be raised up. There is yet to be a step in the matter, due to the improbability of the budget. The Lake of Urbana is called Ibrahim (Abraham) in the Qur'an, the place called the Fire in the Qur'an, the place called the Cold and Peaceful One over Ibrahim (Abraham). Very good things had been done in the past, but the whole neighborhood would have been organized on the way to Gaziantep, the way out of Urbana. Again, Mr. Necmeddin Cevheri and Urbana Mayor Assat Akgöl -- my classmate -- began during the period, but for 20 years it has not been completed until the main road to Gaziantep. Now, speaking of Urbana, there's something to say about the Harran ruins, about the first university in the world, about the tribes there, and there's something to say about the whole region. Now, Urbana, Diyarbakır, Mardin, Hasankeyf, is a two-day, three-day tour in this region and tourism... and I also did two years of professional tourism guidance, English, Arabic. I know all the problems in the industry, and a significant part of my family has still been doing this job in Istanbul since 1970, a very large tourist company, my uncle's children. Now, the center of Christianity, Islam, and Judaism in the world, if you go further back than that, is the center of the Shemsi, the Crushers, the Zarathustians. Of the story of Abraham, mentioned in the Qur'an, who is Israel to me? Israel is the name of Jacob the Lord. And the children of Israel, and the children of Jacob, and the sons of Jacob the Lord, are twelve tribes. These 12 tribes are the descendants of their 12 sons, including Joseph the Great, and Bünyamin. This is Beni, the father of the 12 tribes of Israel (the Jacobites). Of the 12 sons, including Joseph the Hazreti, was born in Urbana, and not just Bünyamin was born in Urbana. Thus, if people who believe in Judaism today, Christianity, and all these heavenly religions, once in their lifetime, come to Urbana, a whole region will be turned upside down. Again, again, the first King Abgar Aryo, who accepted Christianity, the first King Abgar Aryo, the king of Urbana, who was sent to him while Jesus Christ was still alive. It's in all the Christian texts. There's no one here who knows that. But people who are intellectually curious about the development of Christianity, who are in charge of Christian theology, know these things, even our own people don't. In the name of Abgar Aryo, Jesus Christ sends his handkerchief to his face. This handkerchief has been hiding in all Christian churches for about a thousand and two hundred years, the last to disappear is Byzantine, Vatican, and the Vatican. So, friends, let's get to the history of Islam. Again, the first mosque was converted into a mosque during Hazreti Omar in the year 639, before the church. There are two examples in the world, one Emevi Mosque in Damascus, the other one in Diyarbakir Great Mosque, a little smaller than that. There's no third example of architecture, no one in the world, two. Dear friends, we can increase them, so we can talk about Hasankeyf. The ruins of Habuba in Midyat. There's an area that's very important and sacred to the oppressed themselves, and it's declared a site of status. There's no serious work here again. The tomb of the prophet, bow down. The big ad has been made, every incoming political visit, and when our Prime Minister arrived, they visited him, but there's still a small town, but there's not much work to be desired. Pamukkale of the sea. I haven't seen it yet. There was an ad, it was a really great commercial. So it's got to go to the next generation. Again, the desired result has not been achieved. Istanbul is a world pearl, a city where millions of people can come in cultural tourism, but these shows that we don't like, you know, there's nothing else that would've introduced Istanbul without soap operas and TV shows. There are more Arabs in the Middle East and people in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, looking at the landscapes there. Dear friends, of course, that's not the only duty of the Ministry of Culture. I'm not saying that theaters, movies, documentaries, book publications, things are being done about them, they're not being done about them, and I said so in the beginning. I mean, it's just a criticism, an offense, not a criticism, absolutely, but... I said the line at the end at the beginning, and I'll say it again on the way to the end. It's all about these things, dear friends, we, from what we eat, drink, wear -- in what we call culture, tourism and civilization heritage -- if we don't show more staff, more money, more interest in our heritage -- I guess, as the Minister would say, there's always work done, but it's not enough. Again, my respects to all of you. If we don't have our civilization, we don't have our whole past to come, friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0005par0108	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy... Mr. Aksoy, your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0006par0112	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budgetary budgetary bill of the 2014 Budget Bill, the General Directorate of State Theatres, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, and the budget of the Turkish Writers' Association. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we don't have to say that culture and art are as important to society as bread and water. Because in the 21st century, societies and states that do not realize this are also doomed to be wiped out. In a country that doesn't care about art and culture, society and individuals can't think, question, judge. Without a people's poetry, literature, art, that people can't fight freedom and democracy, and they can't even exist. Literaries, artists are the ones that create the feeling and longing of a people. A people without emotion, a nation without emotion, can't be thought of. Art, literature, and cultural values must be approached on such a basis. As it is known, budgets reflect not only the economic and financial situation but also the political preferences of governments. We think it's enough to look at the culture and art policies of that country to understand the level of modern civilization and democracy of a country. Because cultural policies include not only theatre, ballet, opera, writing, art and literature, but also life forms, basic human rights and freedoms. Therefore, the country's cultural policies also reflect the country's level of democracy. But, when we look at it, in the 2014 budget, just like in previous budgets, the share of culture and art is very low. This shows the importance Turkey and the government have given to culture and art. In the same way, culture and art are not expected to develop in an environment where language is banned. Because one of the basic carriers of culture is language. The language prepares and nurtures the environment in which it needs culture and art. However, each society sets out through its own cultural reality as it performs its own culture and art. Unfortunately, this is the situation in Turkey, which is not a pleasant place. One language, one religion, one nation, the culture policy of the state based on one religious understanding has denied the country's different cultures and has thus far prevented its development. Dear lawmakers, the State Theatres, founded to spread culture and art to the widest communities, are also trying to take part in the world in its originality, while unfortunately, it does not reflect our cultural diversity as a sign of a society far from the reality of our country. In order for different cultures to develop and live, the government must also care about cinema, theatre, and allow different cultures to develop in these branches of beautiful arts. It is also a reality that, with cultural diversity, definitions such as the state's theatre, in Turkey, do not reflect the reality of a multicultural, pluralistic society. In this sense, theaters open their scenes, and unfortunately, they don't open a curtain for our country's differences. Mr. Minister of Culture is here. We want them to explain. Can you explain how many of your ministry's cultural and art projects outside of Turkish support and how much? An understanding of acting that ignores all languages, accents, and dialects, especially in Kurdish, has now become outdated. It is one of the duties of the state to promote the theatre, ballet, music, and cinema, which are true cultural carriers, to make sure that everyone benefits. The theatre, ballet, opera must not only be the art of elites. Again, just because it's in big cities means it's discrimination among citizens. Every man needs art and literature. Why is it that in many cities of Kurdistan today, people in Ağrı, Haqkari, Şırnak can't reach art or have the ability to do their own arts and support for it in their own language? Speaking of which, I'd like to remember the first ballerina of the Kurds, Leyla Badirhan. Bedirhan, the grandson of Botan Mirin and the Kurdish Princess, was also the first for the Middle East, for himself, and for the ballet art; we cherish it. Dear MPs, we have repeatedly stated by the state that culture and art should be sent to every corner of Turkey in equality and justice, and that while doing so, it should do projects in accordance with the country's different languages and cultures. But we see that the government insists on an anti-cultural and art policy. As a result of these policies, the scenes were shut down one by one, while the State Theatres were in danger of closing down. Following the process of closing the stage with the sale of the building of Akun Cinema in Ankara, which began with the decision of Emek Cinema in İstanbul, it is now time for privatisation of theatre, opera and ballet. Unfortunately, today, in Turkey, the government has not hesitated to attack cultural and art fields with a coastal, destructive, destructive attitude. This mentality, which describes ballet art as lower than belle, painting and sculpture art as "freaky," is interfering with every aspect of the stage art, which censors writers and artists. Hundreds of intellectuals, artist Kurds today live in exile abroad because they write books in their native language or freely express their opposition ideas in Turkey. You can't cover up all the atrocities and exiles that have been done by bringing only Shivan (Sivan) to the country. In the 12th year of your rule, even Shivan was able to come to Turkey. If you were so well-intentioned, why did you object to bringing the funeral of Aram Tigran, the great voice of Armenian and Kurdish songs into the country? However, Aram's last will: to be buried in Amed. You have prevented the fulfillment of this will. I hope you'll pay for this in the afterlife. The esteemed MPs, the Skorskys, the F-16s, the TOMAs, the scorpions, the batons, the gasses, and the government, who has no fear of any sacrifice in budgeting, tends to privatise them by privatising them to museums, operas, ballet and theater. You have to ask Mr. Secretary: In what way will you privatize the State Theatres? Are you going to sell the buildings or the artists? The theatre is an institution that questions life, which is contrary, which has a hostile structure. You can't act with the thought of destroying every critic, or annoying, or opposed. We're going to privatize them. It's actually thinking, "We're going to destroy them." The thought is hidden. Is it possible to privatize every institution that doesn't produce plus values, doesn't profit by commercial expression? You expect him to make a profit? The commercial care of some institutions also reveals the modern and liberal development of that state. Hospitals, schools, and armed forces don't make a profit, but they cost a lot of money. So you have to privatize these organizations, too? Members of parliament, again, the government's legal and illegal attitude over the past few years has become so serious that the Ministry of Arts, which has not opened a staff exam, employs artists who have graduated from ten years of conservatorys with 40-50 Turkish dollars a day salary under the name "guest artist." When they are asked whether they are civil servants or workers, as part of Articles 657, they are neither civil servants nor workers, with their own opinion of the state staff. Even artists with ten years of art education are not eligible for 4/C, so it is made clear that in a sense, there is illegal employment in public. Dear lawmakers are cultural beings that contain a very important portion of our cultural values, written in history, art, literature, religion, and many other areas. These handwritten artifacts are artifacts that collect basic information from the period and the place. These are the first-hand sources of the world of science and art. It is of great importance, of course, to have these artifacts preserved, to have our multicultural identity introduced to the world, to be passed on to future generations. An important amount of money is needed from the budget in order to be presented in the original form of writing by the Head of the Writing Arts Association, which has a special budget, along with library operations, simplification, research work, and the publicisation of the work on writing works. However, it is evident and understood that the issue has not been given enough attention with this split budget. For this reason, it is one of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Culture to try to pass on all works of religion, language, race, and ethnicity in the country that contribute to art and culture by sticking to its originality and understanding of humanity's common heritage. However, we find that even in this 2014 Plan and Budget Commission Report, the word "Kurdistan" in our group's opposition has not been tolerated. You signed three parties, unlawful and illegitimately, tore our fortune out of the report and reprinted it. In fact, you've also demonstrated your approach to differences, multiculturalism. I would like to say once again that I condemn the position of the Speaker and other parties. We can't expect that such a mindset, of course, will bring all the works of Kurdistan, Eli Herri, to be made available in Turkish by their esteemed thinkers and literary authors, Ehmede Xanî, Feqiya Teyran, Mela Huseyin Bateyi, Melayê Ciziri, and Eli Herri. However, we will insist on it, and we will continue to fight it. In order for a multilingual and multicultural policy of Turkey to be implemented, the Ministry of Culture must allocate funds to works of art and literature in languages other than Turkish. Because the Ministry of Culture is budgeted by the taxes of all citizens in this country -- Kurdish, Turkish, Cerkez, Armenian, Suryani, Laz. The execution of culture and art of a single structure does not divide and fuse the country. In this sense, as I end my words, I would like to share with you the verses of Ozan Sherko Bekes, who will also be remembered as the pioneers of the modern Kurdish poem we lost this summer and also for the struggle for freedom for the rest of his life. [[x]] If they take the rose out of my poems, one season out of four will die. If they take out the boyfriend, my two seasons will die. If they take the bread out, three of them will die. But if they take away freedom, my year will die and I will die. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly by saying to all, "Freedom."
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0007par0138	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Zenderlioglu. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0008par0143	Shouldn't it be 15 minutes for us?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0007par0144	Halil Beyin was fifteen minutes, your ten minutes, sir. That's the picture I have.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0009par0145	You add more time than Halil Bey.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0008par0146	By God, I had it ready for 15 minutes. It could be a minute or two.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0007par0147	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0008par0148	Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Competitive Institution. On this occasion, I salute you with respect, with love. Customs, a government that provides a significant source of revenue, appear to be continuing to make scandals under the leadership of the EC PARTY government. There are major problems in many areas, especially in the working conditions, rights and wages of personnel working at customs, which are the most heavy in the workload. The AK PARTY government has yet to take a positive step, knowing the problems of customs personnel. We would like to call on the AK PARTY authority for the problems of customs workers. We also declare that we stand by every positive step in this matter. One of the most important duties of the Ministry of Customs, of course, is that the customs doors must be doors that serve the interests of our people. Because the fact that the day-to-day trade is here must not be ignored. It should create a common welfare environment. Regional cooperation is possible with the opening of these gates. It's also under healthy supervision. For a cerican diesel, a kilo of tea, a pack of cigarettes, you don't have to play with people's dignity. We must remember that people of border lengths are related to each other. In such a period when customs fences, customs walls, have been removed from the world, it is not natural to be welcomed. He that goeth to Makoh in the morning shall not be questioned when he returneth to Sero. There should be incentives for the luggage trade. Border trade areas must be improved. The bureaucratic process at the customs gates must be facilitated. For example, in the summer, you all know that I don't have to tell you about the scandal in Edirne. Economic co-operation should strengthen business relations, not look at everything through the forbidden window, but make it easier. In addition to ensuring public safety, trafficking poses the biggest threat to the competitive market. In preventing this multi-directional threat, economic measures, financial measures, political commitments, and border control are important, but however, in Turkey, the policy carried out by the EC PARTI government has been transformed from illegal workers, mobile phones, cigarettes, drinking, tea, sugar, fuel from fuel to fuel, to a runaway paradise, to a small animal. While we do not have official data on the number of illegal workers, some sources claim that the number of employees in Turkey's smuggling business is 500,000. As a result of the economic, financial policies that we are implementing, the situation was created by the EC PARTY itself. Are you aware that by increasing the tax, private consumption and customs tax on the unexplained doors, you have turned Turkey into an illegal paradise? Trafficking continues at all speeds in Turkey today, especially in cities such as Istanbul, İzmir, Bursa, Mersin, the largest of trafficking in all areas, while the EC PARTI government condones them. The fight against smuggling is alleged to be a 32 per cent increase in 2013, according to 2012. Meanwhile, from the founding of the republic in Turkey's Kurdistan region to date, Kurdish citizens living in the region have been condemned to unemployment, hunger, poverty, poverty and poverty, especially education and health. No investments have been made in public areas. Considering that Turkey today supplies most of its oil, electricity and energy needs from this region, it is a fact that the oil in Batman flows into the pipes and flows into Mersin Harbor. While many border crossings are needed in the Kurdistan area, each time they go to Hakkari (Hakkari) and return to Ankara with many explanations, they forget that. We don't yet understand what's the secret of not doing what was said directly in Hakkari. When it comes to the Kurdistan border of the AK PARTI government, 34 people who trade border with their relatives were bombed and unafraid... It remains to be considered that no procedure has been completed for two years. One reason is that the Ministry of Customs's bureaucratic resistance is a product of that status quo sense. When we look at the AK PARTY policy this way, of course, the Roboski massacre is not a first-time event, 33 bullets are another example. Earlier in Gever, the police attacked a democratic movement in Gever, causing the death of three of our people. In the history of Turkey, we have hundreds of people who have been slaughtered for trading on the state border in Kurdistan. Just yesterday we know that many of our citizens lost their lives on the border with Kapatköy, Iran, in Özalp district. By soldiers and passersmen, on both sides, these people are subjected to such attacks. And that's not enough. In these borders, we also know that they take people from their homes at night and kill people near this border and go to the unknown. As a result of AK PARTY's foreign policy on neighbouring countries, it is also noted how it is alone in the Middle East because everything is happening before the eyes of the world. He still doesn't understand his role in the Middle East, and he still doesn't know how empty the gold is. At the border crossings we call Rojava, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, it seems that the Customs Ministry has opened the area to education. We're asking: Mr. Customs Minister, what do you do, what do you do? Do you know about this? Have you heard of Ceylanpınar, and have you heard of Reyhan, and have you heard of Habur? Do you know that what was done, those bureaucratic obstacles, was applied only to Kurds? And in the heart of the Middle East, even though these attacks are happening in front of everyone, no one is making a sound. Here we go. You think you're getting away with this. One day, the people of the world will judge you, and will judge you because of your attitude. Here we see, it is now clear that some of the antiquated in Syria, the injustice in Syria, the persecution, the oppression, are set up by you, it is no longer a secret, it is clear and clear. That's where TIGEM operations are. You teach there, you arm there, you claim after you walk through the door: do you have a document? You have no certificate of bribery, no document of murder, no document of trafficking. So what do we do, what do we make a bet, what do we prove? Here we see, you can kill for a cyclic diesel, but you're still hiding what's going on in Rojava. Why are you hiding it? Someday those people will be trouble for you, too. Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Yemen, Iraq, wherever they went, they destroyed it, but they did not achieve it. We still don't understand why the government of Turkey is supporting them. That's why we're telling you, Mr. Customs Minister, we think it would be best if you took a little interest in your area. You all know what happened in Iraq before. Just yesterday you denied the federal government of south Kurdistan, you opposed it, but today you have nearly 10 billion commercial volumes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why? Because you're in Turkey... [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Well, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0010par0163	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is Erzurum MP Fazilet Mountaineer Scream. Here you go, Mr. Scream. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0011par0168	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on behalf of the European Ministry's 2014 fiscal year budget bill to be discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly. The European Union Ministry, established in 2011, has taken over our EU process with its young and dynamic staff, signing important work. The Ministry of the European Union, which provides effective coordination among public institutions, works as a kind of reform kitchen for Turkey. Turkey has had a silent revolution in Turkey over the past 11 years, changing Turkey's face with reforms. A closer look at the importance of the European Union's Ministry, which has been taken in line with the EU's political and economic criteria in the EU integration process. Turkey crossed its critical threshold and began accession talks, taking steps towards harmonising the Copenhagen political criteria prior to 2005. As a result of our government's decisive work, Turkey today is a much more democratic, much more transparent and much more liberal country. The death penalty and the removal of state security courts, the restructuring of civilian military relations, the fight against corruption from judicial reform, the expansion of cultural and religious freedoms to women's rights. Thanks to all these reforms, a free debate has been established in Turkey today, and it has become free to discuss things that are considered taboo for many years, which are so sensitive to society. Moreover, these reforms gave all parts of society a more prosperous Turkey without a Turkish-Kurdish distinction, men-woman, young-aged, Alevi-Sunni. Turkey's distance in the field of economic criteria is appreciated at a time when the entire European community is struggling with the economic crisis. With radical structural reforms in the EU process, increasing foreign direct capital and stable policies, Turkey's economy has achieved amazing achievements both in Europe and in the world. During our government, the co-ordination of the EU Ministry was introduced to 320 primary secondary regulations, close to 1,600 put together in compliance with the European Union's acquistion. These reformative regulations have further raised Turkish society's standard of living with a large number of innovations from food safety to solid waste management, energy efficiency to consumer rights. Mr. President, even though eight years have passed since we started negotiations, Turkey continues to do what it needs to do on this road, unfortunately, we are going through a period in which the EU is being kept sane. Political blockages and prejudices against our country over the acquish are causing time and security loss in Turkey-EU relations. Turkey is not only busy meeting the requirements of its EU acquis, it also has to deal with practices and prejudices that no country has ever faced before. Despite the negativity of the negotiation process, however, EU membership remains a strategic choice for our country. The rapidly changing global dynamics of our age make Turkey-EU integration increasingly important and indispensable. It is clear that Turkey will play a key role in reaching a stronger, safer, and more stable future for the EU. With the contribution of reforms in the EU process, our country is going through a socioeconomic transformation process. The EU process also plays an important role in the continuation of a stable growth environment in Turkey. Despite the current crisis, the EU is still the world's largest economy and Turkey's most important business partner. About 40 per cent of our foreign trade is happening with EU countries. 71 per cent of foreign direct investments entering Turkey are from the EU. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our main priority as AK PARTI power is for our people to have a better standard of living. As long as it serves this purpose, despite any intimidation policy from member states, we have maintained the EU process, and we will continue to date. In the coming period, I invite all lawmakers under the roof of our great Parliament to give stronger support to the change of Turkey, to its transformation. I hereby wish the European Union's budget and the 2014 budget to our country's best.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0012par0178	Thank you, Mr. Scream. Afyonkarahisar MP Halil Product... Here you go, Mr. Product.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0013par0182	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the European Ministry budget of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. On this occasion, I salute your delegation. Despite the crisis of the European Union, it is clear that per capita prosperity is the highest region in the world. According to UN development reports, the European Union member states are at the top of the list in terms of the human development value set by life expectancy and standards. The European Union, which is the most advanced geography worldwide in many areas from the proportions of reading and schooling to the equality of gender, is one thing the United Nations data tells us about, is poverty. So the goal of membership in the European Union, both politically and economically the world's most advanced geography, is a national issue for us, and it will continue to be. Mr. President, valued MPs, we're going through a critical period in which history has been rewritten in a large geography from Europe to the Middle East. Once again, the European Union is not just an economic or political project. European integration is the most important peace project in human history, especially given the history of world wars and two major world wars in the past century. At this point, developments over the past 12 years have been crucial for Turkey's EU relations, not for the EU-free Turkey, but for the idea that there will be no European Union without Turkey. We live in the 50th year of the Ankara Agreement, considered the beginning of Turkey's relations with the European Union. The process of the European Union has become a huge win, with a number of legal regulations made during the EC PARTY administration. At this point, there have been huge revolutionistic developments in the idea that membership in the European Union is a viable goal. Since the day the EC PARTI government took office, Turkey has set any reform within the framework of the European Union as a priority agenda, and in this direction all legal regulations necessary to comply with the European Union have been carried out step by step. The progress report on legislation from political and economic criteria published by the European Commission each year, from administrative capacity to European Union projects, praised the reforms carried out by the EC PARTI government, an assessment of all efforts carried out in Turkey's Union. The Ministry of the European Union is leading all the arrangements that have been implemented as a result of the work under the responsibility of our various public institutions and organisations, giving opinions on hundreds of draft legislation drafted by our public institutions and organisations each year in order to comply with the European Union's acquisitor, providing access to talks on the relevant commissions of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Ministry of the European Union is Turkey's project office with its work on different issues and different areas. The Ministry of the European Union, which runs hundreds of projects from local to national to civil society in different areas, supports thousands of projects, is a new breath of Turkish bureaucracy from a perspective that embraces all parts of society. Compliance with the European Union is a very comprehensive process that includes not only public institutions but all parts of society. Therefore, communication and civil society dialogue are one of the most important aspects of the accession process. Mr. President, in the EU Commission's progress report and enlargement strategy, steps have been raised regarding the government's commitment to democratisation and the continuation of political reforms, especially the package of democratisation and judicial reform, which we announced on September 30th. Our country's strategic goal is 22 after a three-year break in the context of EU membership. Co-ordination of local policy and structural tools is no doubt a crucial achievement in the opening of the chapter. Turkey is the only country in which citizens of the EU are granted visas. Our government's efforts to correct this unjust situation have been more focused in 2013. As a matter of fact, dialogue between the European Union and Turkey for visa exemption has begun with the agreement to be signed on December 16th. The Ministry of the European Union budget was around 207m euros from 2009 to today, with the amount of grants used by the Ministry under the European Union's Financial Business Union reached 1.2 billion euros. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At this point, the European Ministry's budget has restored 5.7 euros to our country's budget in exchange for each euro from the general budget. The Ministry of the European Union wishes you well, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0014par0194	Thank you, Mr. Product. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Iconian MP Kerim Özkul... Here you go, Mr. Özkul.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0015par0199	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Turkish Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK) from the relevant institutions of the Ministry of the European Union, where we are discussing its budget today. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, as you all know, there is an important place in the development of world trade, the overcoming of technical obstacles in international trade, and the providing of quality, safe products and services to people. In general, it is necessary to prevent documentation, testing, analysis and examinations of products and services referred to as "competence assessments" and to prevent different qualifications in each country to be conducted according to international accepted common standards. To this end, our country was founded in 1999 by Law 4457, and until this day, it has served its services legally. In parallel with the year-to-year volume of work, it has also become widely available to our manufacturer, industry, exporter and consumers. Thus, the quality of products and services in the domestic market is being improved, while the possibility of our export products being sold in the world markets without experiencing technical obstacles. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our economy in the world markets and ensure international validity of products, services and reports available to the market, the accordion system must be based on solid foundations, fast functioning and neutral. In addition to the actual task of Akreditation services, Turkey also performs procedures such as training of many in this area, audits on approved organisations and documentation confirmations for tenders. Only 2,200 people from the public and private sector were given training in 2013, from the beginning to this day, in the areas of international standards, quality and metrology, and in the field of Akreditation supervisory. In 2012, significant changes were made in Turkish Foundation Law 4457, which became the relevant organisation of the Ministry of the European Union, and was implemented on 5/7/2012. In 2013, according to amendments to the law, the institution's structure was reconstructed, on the other hand, with the introduction of relevant regulations, the drafting of new documents, the overhaul of the auditor's pool, and the renovation of some regulations. Throughout 2013, labs, manufacturers, industrialists and exporters, which were part of the accordion activity, were met in different environments, exchanges of views. In this framework, the International Hellal Accredition Forum was held on 25-26 October 2013 in Istanbul, hosted by the institution. About 1,000 experts and sector representatives from 60 countries attended the forum. A key issue that should be stated in this session, when the Turkish budget is discussed, is that since 2004, Turkak has covered its own revenues without financial aid. As a result of increased business volume and positive development in the country's economy, Turkey has covered its costs with its own revenues over the past decade, has not increased any wages in the past four years, and has even made arrangements in favour of acrements. Turkey, the largest accordion organisation in our region, develops its relations with international organisations, while also providing experience, education and advice to the development of countries in the Balkan countries, the Caucasus, the Middle East, Central Asia and North Africa. TÜRKAK is also carrying out the accreditation of organisations in regional countries such as Iran, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Saudi Arabia, and is also involved in the implementation of international projects related to accreditation institutions of some countries, such as Moldova, Albania. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in the coming years, I ask all of you to bless our institutions, our Ministry, our country, and our great nation in 2014, with the belief that Turkey will continue to continue its efforts to provide an effective, efficient and secure actuation service, to meet the growing demands of further internationally validation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0016par0209	Thank you, Mr. Özkul. Mardin MP Gönul Bekin Şahkulubey... Here you go, Mr. Şakulubey.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0017par0213	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC Party Group on the budget talks of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism for the 2014 fiscal year. On behalf of myself and my group, I humbly and lovingly salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation. Our country is among its special position, its natural beauty, its home civilizations, its cultural treasures and the world's wealth of culture and tourism. In Turkey, the number of tourists visiting our country has increased exponentially, as a result of work done abroad and abroad in many areas from the protection, extradition and promotion of our cultural assets to the new production and restoration, from tourism planning to promotional activities. As a result, the tourism industry has risen 11 steps in ten years and has become the sixth largest country in the world's travel market in the number of tourists. According to the World Tourism Organization's report, in the first eight months of 2013, we are the third country to increase tourism revenues the fastest. Again, according to the same source, the number of tourists averaged 5.5 per cent, while Turkey doubled that figure and grew 10.5 per cent. In 2002, the number of visitors totalled 7,400,000 in 2002 was 28 million 780,000, thanks to modernisation by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and its structures. My dear friends, in addition to these developments, historical artifacts have taken considerable distance in their efforts to return to our country. A total of 28 works from Germany, 1, 23 from Australia, and 4 from England were returned to our country as of September 2013 alone. Another study as important as this is the cooperation of the General Directorate of TİKA and Foundations to repair the impositions of our cultural heritage outside our borders today. After all, we've repaired 3,600 foundations by saving our apocalypse foundation from ruin. Mostar Bridge, Gül Baba, Sinan Pasha Mosque is back on its feet in Prizren. In fact, the houses that had been destroyed were built in line with the one where the father of the Gazi Mustafa Kemal was born, grew up, and destroyed. In our country, Çanakkale martyrdoms and plates, one of the toughest fronts of our Istikal War, have been rebuilt into museums. Before these provisions, only 300,000 people visit our martyrdom at Çanakkale a year now visit nearly 3 million people a year. Dear friends, Mardin, a tourist city of investments and studies in culture and tourism, has received and continues to receive the necessary share of knowledge. Restoration of November's Medresesi, a major part of the province's tourism, has been completed, and we continue our work with TÜBITAK to turn this madrasa into an Islamic museum of science and art history. The Restoration of the Youth House, the Governor's mansion, the Gazipaşa Elementary School, the former People's Education Building and the former military barracks was completed, and they began to serve the tourism of Mardin. At the same time, Mardin Castle, which is important to Mardin, has been renovated, has been relocated, and the company will begin its work as soon as possible. We will gain the right to enter the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List, with nearly 140 of the concrete plugins and buildings that have corrupted Mardin's thousands of years of historical fabrics destroyed so far as part of the Historical Transformation Project, and our city's shortfalls being resolved according to historical tissue. When the Historical Transformation Project, which we started in our Mardin Central, Midyat and Savur counties, will be completed, our Mardin, which appears to be the third open-air museum in the world after Jerusalem and Venice, will have the status it deserves, and so I say, there will be serious increases in tourist revenues, and with that feeling, I wish you all the blessings of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0018par0224	Thank you, Mr. Shahkulubey. Alaziğ MP Zülfü Demirbağ... Here you go, Mr. Ironbone.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0019par0228	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group to express my views on the budget of the 2014 Financial Year Budget Bill, Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute your high council and our nation. First of all, I pray for the mercy of God to our teachers who died in the car accident in Malatya yesterday, and for their families to be patient. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to brief you on the work of culture and tourism during our governments. In 2002, 13 million tourists came to our country, and in 2012 the number rose to 36 million, with 170 per cent increase. Our country, which was number 17 in the number of tourists, made a huge leap in 11 years and moved to the sixth place. Tourism revenue, $8.5 billion, rose by 236 per cent to 29.3 billion dollars. In tourism, Istanbul was ranked number 1 in the world. As of 2012, the number of thermal accommodation facilities reached 140. The bed capacity of these facilities reached 37,500. We've raised the number of cultural centers to 93. We support 221 private theaters in the 2013-2014 art season for $4,300,000. So, with the largest financial support in recent years, we plan to help again with a large number of private theaters. In addition to investments in Elazığ in culture and tourism: Elazığ Nurettin Ardicoglu Cultural Centre, which has been spent nearly $12m, has been completed and has been launched. A multipurpose hall consisting of theatre, ballet, opera and theaters; a multipurpose small hall consisting of meetings, conferences, seminars and various theatres; a large library, children's library, fine art gallery; fine arts, crafts and children's workshops; ballet, folklore and music workshops. The Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography was launched in June 2011, with a 3m-dollar grant. The Council of Ministers, published in the Official Gazette on January 6, 2005, declared the Harput cultural and tourism protection and development zone, in which the Elazig Harput Protection Plan and Urban Design Project have been tendered by our Directorate of Culture and Tourism, thus opening the way for Harput to be built and moved into the future. A total of $2,600,000 was sent from 2004 to 2012 by the Central Directorate for Investment and Development and Development and Development and Development and from the Harput entrance, the street tissue was renovated, street lighting was carried out, and services such as infrastructure and water and sewers were significantly completed. As part of the restoration of the Harput Castle, the restoration of the northern walls has been completed. In addition, the Elazig-Tunceli-Fire basin has been declared and announced as a cultural and tourism protection and development zone. Work has been launched to protect Lake Caspian, keep it clean, and bring it to tourism, and the sunken city in Caspian Lake has been registered as a first-degree archaeological site. Speaking of investments in our Elazığ, the west-east and west-southeast accents, which are also in the middle of our Elazığ, were made a significant step, and a deal was made for the Charcohan bridge and tunnel to be adapted to the double road. Again, Elaziğiğ Airport was raised from 900 meters to 1,200 meters, while 1 million passenger-access terminals were built. In addition, when the city, formerly known as the District Hospital, is in service two years later, our Elazığ will become a health centre. As I finish, I would like to wish you and our great nation the blessing of the 2014 Financial Budget Act.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0020par0241	Thank you, Mr. Ironbone. İstanbul MP Gülay Dalyan... Here you go, Mr. Dalyan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0021par0245	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the financial budget of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. On November 1, 1936, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was speaking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: I would like to revive your interest in fine art. It is my pleasure to remind you that there is a conservatory in Ankara, a theatre academy. The attention and effort of the public for each institution of fine arts will be effective because of the increase in the people's human and civilized life and the efficiency of hard work. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, as it is known, continues its stage operations today in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Mersin, Antalya Provinces, and the Samsun State Opera and Ballet Directors, which were inaugurated in 2008. They are also working on opening offices in Gaziantep, Sivas, Van Provinces. Gaziantep, Sivas, Van, we aim to assess the region's resources, cultural textures and savings of our administrations, and to make it a cultural center for the local people, where they will make significant contributions to universal integration. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been formed in a general co-ordinating unit at the beginning of 2009 in order to make artistic co-ordination more regular during our government's time, in order to further run tours, festivals, competitions, promotional and other research development activities. Also, Leyla Gencer, of Ankara State Opera and Ballet Directorate, opened the curtains in February 17th 2009 as the first child opera and ballet scene in our country, where our children would be informed of cultural activities, evaluated their artistic abilities, and if they wanted to perform their skills on stage. Other than that, there were concerts, concerts and educational events in 35 counties through tours in 2013. As part of a pilot cities project launched by our current municipalities in 2012, the state opera and ballet representations in our provinces are scheduled to take at least one tour each month. Again, the transformative repertoire system has been introduced to allow more efficient use of productions prepared to ensure the accessibility of our General Directorate's art in society, and other cities' artists to benefit from these works. Thus, the work that is put on the stage in one office is performed in other managers. It must not be forgotten that art has a vision for society. Our country's opera and ballet communities are doing a very serious promotional service with international tours. More works of Turkish composers are included in festival programmes held in our country and abroad, allowing our original works to be stolen and our culture spread throughout every country in the world. The International Aspendos Opera and Ballet Festival, one of the most important organizations in our General Directorate, is one of the world's most famous festivals. Once again, we are very proud that the International Istanbul Opera Festival is becoming a brand of Turkey's most important activities of the cultural scene, becoming traditional at the point where the International Opera Festival comes today. The fact that these festivals are held in different historical sites also contributes to cultural tourism -- Rumeleli Castle, Star Palace, Topkapi Palace, Aya Irini, Aspendos Ancient Theatre, Basement Castle -- to cultural tourism. As we look at budget figures, the institution's growth rate was 285 per cent compared to the 2014 budget we discussed in 2002, and in 2014 it was set as $226m Turkish lira. Mr. President, the high-profile MPs, especially during the AK PARTY administration, have increased the number of theatre, representation, audiences. These are all significant developments for our country. For example, it is very meaningful that Ankara State Opera and Ballet, one of Turkey's most radical art institutions, reached the highest number of viewers in the republic's history in the past October. It is our government's policy to ensure and increase the reach of every part of society by exposing our country's diversity and dynamics in the field of culture. On this occasion, reminding that art is the most effective area that has developed and glorified mankind, I wish the budget of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0022par0259	Thank you, Mr. Dalyan. Malatya MP Öznur Çalak. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0023par0263	Mr. President, my esteemed MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of State Theatres of Culture and Tourism in 2014. I hereby salute the High Council. Before we begin my remarks, we have learned with great regret that we have lost the lives of five of our citizens and four of our citizens, along with five of our teachers, in the tragic accident of a van carrying our teachers on the road to Malatya-Adıyaman, which ensued the entire Turkish community, Malatya, education and health community. Once again, I offer my condolences to our fallen citizens, teachers and medics, asking for God's mercy, and to their families, the educational community, our country. And to our wounded, I pray to God for a speedy recovery. Right now, funerals are being held, and Friday prayers will be followed by their final resting place. Once again, I pray for God's mercy. If I return to my agenda on the State Theatres of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, it is the civilization of society that makes people responsible for each other. People who have no endurance, who don't know their responsibility to each other, are just a pile, not a community. One of the hidden forces that provides cultural development is theater. It's a tool that transfers artistic creation to society in the most efficient way. The theater cleanses society of its common complexes as well as it does its duty to warn them, providing them with true thought and freedom. The most important initiative for the state to take part in cultural organisations should be to include young people in the movement of theatre in their growing age. A theatre, a science of life and the art of society, comes as a consequence to the public. However, as well as a result of the theatre, it has the capacity to be a tool. The result of the theatre reveals its artistic integrity and its educational power as a tool. The State Theatres were founded in 1949 to meet, develop, promote the cultural needs of society, promote the art of theatre and contribute to the development of individuals with universal values. The most important goal of the State Theatre is to deliver theatre art to everyone, anywhere and under any circumstances that can be represented. Again, in order to ensure the performance of the State Theatres at all parts of the country, it tours domestic tours to take theatre art to places where theatre art does not exist, and creates cultural bridges, organises foreign tours with its main goals, taking steps into long-term cultural co-operation and projects. The General Directorate of State Theatres has successfully performed 6,185 representations in 23 counties, 58 scenes, including my science in Malatya, with tours abroad and abroad. In the new season of the State Theatre, which began on October 1st, all personnel worked with the dedication and zeal of 70 local games and 42 translation games perpetuated their successes with the intense attention and support of theatre viewers, and the number of audiences reached 100 percent. The State Theatres set up a wide network of theatres across the country, opening theatre scenes and performing on regular tours in cities without scenes. It is one of the aims of bringing to the theatre scenes in Manisa until the end of the 2013-2014 theatre season, in Kayseri, in Çanakkale, in Hatay, Mardin, in Şanlıurfa provinces. On this occasion, I once again offer my condolences to our teachers and citizens who lost their lives in the accident and wish our 2014 budget to be a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0024par0271	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. Mersin MP Nebi Bozkurt. Here you go, Mr. Bozkurt.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0025par0275	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the President of Turkey's Writers' Association, the draft of the 2014 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your high council and our nation. Books of knowledge, lines, skins, epithelials, miniatures, ebrus and contrasts that shed light on the work of our scientists and art men, writing that connects the past with the future, are the most valuable treasures of our cultural heritage. Turkey is one of the world's leading countries, especially in terms of writing. A large portion of historically important artefacts are kept in libraries, palaces, museums, and private collections. As a result of the importance of writing works in recent years, Turkey's Writers' Association, consisting of three district managers, including the head of five agencies in Istanbul, Ankara and Konya, and 17 writing libraries, was established in order to bring them to the surface, protect them and restore them by staff who specialize in the field. Only in Solomonia and its libraries, there are about 158,000 writings that are important to many miniatures, ebrus and rhetorical arts that date back ten centuries. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have achieved important work from the year it was founded in 2010, when they were appointed by Law 6093. Most importantly, the RFID, established within the Library of Solomonia, is a new collection project based on automatically recognition and data collection. With the project, which has been completed and has the latest technology in its service, the artifacts found in Solomonia and its library are being freed from the difficult situation they have been subjected to foregone years, and are being cleaned and protected. Two Summers and Nadir Arters Restoration Research Centres, including one in Istanbul Süleymaniye, and the other in Iconia, are established in these areas, where their paper has grown old, damaged, and its writings have faded and been renovated by the experts. The Suleymaniye Book Healer, which will soon be operating within the presidency, is planned to become Turkey's largest writing restoration centre in this area. These services are available to foreign writers, such as Mali Timbuktu, Moritania Atar, the Thai Patani region. One of the most important tasks given to the Head of the Agency's Law and Writing Act is the translation and simplification of the works. As part of the 1001 Art Project developed by the presidency, the publication of writing works among the building blocks of cultural life began. In this scope, the institution aims to translate, Latinize, simplify, simplify, and bring into modern-day life science and culture by publishing science, science, geography, literature, history, philosophy, art, religious sciences, etc. As a result of these studies, it was published by Mesalihul Ebdán Vefün, Body and Spiritual Health, Dioscorides of Huneyn bin Isaac İshakİ Kitabül Hashaş Fibit Tıb, De Materia Medica, Nasirüddin Tusi, Tahriru Usül Hendese and Hisab, meaning Eukleides, as well as the Tahriri, Acalyubül Mahl and Garütıt, and Garüdıl Müt. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, on the other hand, have purchased about 2,000 pieces of writing in the hands of some individuals and institutions and submitted them to the services of readers. The presidency strives to improve physical conditions for better quality service. I wish them well, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0026par0282	Thank you, Mr. Bozkurt. Samsun MP Cemal Yilmaz Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0027par0286	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Customs and Trade. I salute the General Assembly. Turkey, the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus are located at the intersection of a turbulent geography and also the world's most important trade and energy lines. In the case of solutions to problems in the region, we always express strongly that not only Turkey, but all the countries in the region, will win. As you know, since we came to power in November 2002, we have signed major reforms both in politics and in economics. We've tested how accurate every step we take is in the global crisis. We believed that by bringing a new approach, the era of making money should end. Therefore, we have taken measures to enable the real sector to revive and rely on the country's economy, to accelerate investments. Unlike many other countries, we have exceeded this by relying on our own dynamics, on our own people, without support from the IMF. The security environment, provided by political stability, has enabled foreign investors to invest in our country even in the global crisis. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has established the infrastructure needed to facilitate legal trade, lower costs in terms of all customs transactions, eliminate stationery, shorten processing times and ensure that the item reaches its final destination immediately. With rapid reconstruction, he has made our country one of the easiest and safest trade countries in the world. It's the only way to achieve our economic goals in the vision of 2023. Customs facilitate legal trade, boosting initiative and competitiveness in countries. By moving from this point, the work continues quickly to increase the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs by forming the world's safest and fastest functioning customs administrations. As a result, customs procedures have been shortened for a period of time. One of our most recent practices, which facilitates trade, is the waiting period at the border, and therefore reduces shipping costs, is the application of fast-pass lines for our movers. Thanks to this practice, our movers are able to complete their registration process at least 50 percent faster than before using private platforms reserved for them at border crossings. The number of export transactions completed in the first minute in 2002 increased by 3 per cent, while in 2012 it increased by about 20 times, to 57 per cent, while in the first half of 2013, to 60 per cent. On average, the processing period was over ten hours in 2002, while the first half of 2013 dropped below five hours. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the way Turkey can become a global actor is through powerful brands and companies that will compete in the international arena. So, on the one hand, we adapt the best practices to increase the competitiveness of our global business world to the customs and trade processes of Turkey, and on the other hand, we improve the ability to use loans. I want to make a point here. The loan interest used by the tradesman has been reduced from 47 per cent to 5 per cent during the AK PARTY administrations, while the rate of subsidies has been increased from 20 per cent to 50 per cent, with the ease of paying off our tradesmen's debts. In addition, the loans, which have been used through loan bail co-ops, have increased the credit limit of $5,000 in 2002 to $15,000 in investment loans, to 300,000 euros in investment loans. Cutbacks on loans for cooperatives were reduced from 9 per cent in 2002 to 3 per cent in 2013, while interest rates were reduced from 4 per cent to 4 per cent in 2013. In 2002, the loans to the tradesmen and artists from the People's Bank, Loans and Bail Co-operatives, were used for 154 million euros, and were raised to $9 billion today. As of September 2013, imports of 187 billion dollars were estimated at about 300 billion foreign trade volumes, including $11 billion exports. When I stop speaking on this occasion, I thank all the Ministry employees, especially our Minister, who have been working on the budget, and I wish the 2014 budget to be good for our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0028par0298	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Antalya MP Hüseyin Samani... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0029par0302	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the Ministry of Customs and Trade budget. I salute you all. As in all areas, important distances have been taken during this period by the Ministry of Customs and Trade. In 2012, 53 billion 827 million liras were collected from this area, which amounted to about 20 per cent of our country's central government tax revenues. As of October 2013, the amount of taxes collected exceeded $50 billion. There's been a settlement in customs. The problem of tax and tax fines between the duty and customs administration has now been resolved before the trial. Between August 2011 and late November 2013, when the customs settlement began, a total of 5,802 application for compromises and a 95 per cent success was achieved in the negotiating establishment, based on the number of cases agreed on with the application. There's no way to smuggle anymore. In 2012, a total of 743 million, 732,000 euros worth of contraband, including drugs and merchandise. The ministry's determination and success in fighting trafficking will continue to increase in 2013. In the first 11 months of this year, a collection of $1 billion worth of drugs and merchandise was carried out. The gate was replaced with a construction-based model of the doors of the gate, Gürbulak, Ipsala, Habur, Cilveböz, Sarp, Hamzabeyli, and Nusaybin customs gates. The same model also signed an application contract for the renovation of Esendere, Dilici, Kapaköy and Mad-Aktaş customs doors within a year and a half. The groundbreaking ceremony of the Ringed Customs Administration took place in September 2013, and the groundbreaking ceremony of the Crazy-Aktaş Customs Gate was held in November 2013. The facilities of our two administrations are intended to be launched within 2014. Hopefully, one window project will be implemented in 2014. With this project, all customs services related to trade and transport will take place from one point and all operations will be conducted from here. Six international forums have been conducted as part of the Silk Road Initiative launched in 2008, and the Kervansaray Project has also been implemented. This study aims to revive the Silk Road in two separate corridors from Turkey to China. Operations for the preservation and liquidation of contraband are being carried out rapidly. Under Law 6455, non-bandolated cigarettes and drinks smuggled into the dorm have been collected and destroyed immediately. So the cost of saving is reduced to a minimum. In addition, in the first ten months of 2013, a total of $67.7m in income was obtained from the sale of contraband. Legal regulations for the implementation of our new Turkish Trade Law, which aims to promote corporate management, adapt to technological developments and boost competitiveness, have been implemented. With the new Turkish Trade Law coming into force, it was also possible for non-profit and non-profit companies to close soon. In this case, the records of 115,515 companies have been deleted. One of the four main databases in our country is the Central Record Recording System, which is the MERSIS. With this system, trade enterprises and companies' organisation, changes and closures have been moved to electronic media. The licensed storage system is widely distributed throughout the country. With this system, electronic products are also applied as a new investment tool. On this occasion, I wish good fortune for the Ministry of Customs and Commerce budget. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0030par0313	Thank you, Mr. Samani. Düzce MP, Fevai Arslan... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0031par0317	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Competitiveness Agency's 2014 budget. I salute your high council. Competitive rules are in effect in many countries around the world, and particularly the regulations that developed countries see as indispensable. In our country, the rule of Article 167 of our Constitution has given the state the task of taking the necessary measures for the healthy and regular functioning of markets, monopoly and cartelization. In 1998, the Republic of Turkey, which had about $270 billion in economic size, has largely completed its liberalisation process in its economic structure, becoming one of the world's leading industrialised and developing countries in 2012, making up 85 per cent of the world's economy. The role of competing rules of competition is greater in the fact that the national economy works better with all institutions and rules of the more competitive, more open and free market economy to the outside world. The Competitiveness Agency, which is trying to eliminate artificial interference outside the market mechanism in the economy, continues to work successfully in this direction. The Competitive Association has made an important deterrent against possible competitive violations, with decisions that it has made in cases where competitive conditions have so far been corrupted by attempts. On this occasion, both consumers and producers were tried to provide a cheaper, better quality, plenty of choice products and services, offering a fair environment. To sum up the activities of the institution in 2013, it would be appropriate to address the following: In the first ten months of this year, a total of 410 cases arrived at the Competition Board from 1 January 2013 to 31 October 2013 were finally decided. In addition, seven views have been made regarding the procedures under privatisation, and 173 applications in total have been considered out of bounds. A total of 15 investigations have been launched into information and communication technologies, education, food, agriculture, construction, professional activities and transport. 15 investigations were completed at the same time. There are currently 21 investigations conducted in information and communication technologies, education, food, agriculture, construction, culture, art, entertainment, professional activities, oil and oil products and transport. The collection of fines issued by the Competitive Council on anti-competitive actions is being made by the Finance Ministry in accordance with Article 6183 and is recorded as income for the general budget, with no revenue transfer to the Competitive Association due to this collection. In summation, the Competitiveness Agency has undersigned important decisions and practices, which at this point remove the obstacles to competition in the markets, which provide economic benefit to consumers. In this process, the institution has carefully followed the developments in the European Union and the developments in other international areas, and has been careful to implement a transparent, fair, impartial practice that captures international standards. As a matter of fact, both in EU progress reports and international institutional work, such as OECD, praises Turkey's point of reference to advanced competitive law norms. With all these qualities, the Competitive Association will continue its activities with the goal of competitive markets, which will allow consumers to buy more quality products at lower prices. I wish 2014 and its budget to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit01spe0032par0326	Thank you, Mr. lion. Congressmans, it's 13 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on the fifth round, it was time for the Republican People's Party Group. First speaker of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Oğuz Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oyan. Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0033par0009	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it's a bit of a deterrent to talk to an empty room. Sir, today I'm only going to talk about the EU Ministry. The first act in relations with the EU and Turkey began with the use of the EU as a leverage to ensure its own internal political consolidation in terms of the new ruling AKP government, so the EU has been used and consumed in this sense. In fact, it should be discussed that the government has a negotiating strategy in its relations with the EU. Look, I'll give you an example or two: October 6, 2004, the progress report is being released, and the Prime Minister says it's a positive and balanced report. The entire Ministry, the State Department, then, is taking action to correct the EU Progress Report before its words are finished in the ears. Then, immediately, on December 17, 2004, the EU Council meets, and a new kind of privileged membership to Turkey -- as in its progress report earlier -- opens up for signing, and there we are, at that time, entering the EU, where we have entered the day-to-day fireworks. Six days later, exactly six days after December 17th, from December 17th 2004, the Foreign Ministry notes that some conditions imposed on the EU Council and Turkey are unacceptable. Look at this surprise. I mean, what kind of negotiating strategy is that? I mean, it's pretty obvious here. The first act in relations with the EU is to use the EU story to consolidate, consolidate, consolidate the internal political legitimacy of a political movement in Turkey, and also a political movement that is trying to build a new political agenda. Of course, the European Union doesn't come out empty-handed here. On the one hand, he supports this political power in Turkey, but he does not leave empty-handed. How's he doing? What's he doing? One: Turkey once finished its full membership perspective. Once you put the second status, the privileged partnership, on the open end, no one will ever give you that basic status again, unless the EU has a very big need. So this is where the EU gets what it wants. Of course, other than that, he buys other things. It manages to make the Cyprus issue a precondition, and it turns out to be something that will block it. There is one other thing, of course, that they're preparing the negotiating framework document so much that the whole of the EU is, but each country has weapons that can block the negotiations. Here, blocking the discussion of such chapters, for no reason or reason, with such a negotiating framework document, the EU, the European Union, Turkey, consumes the European Union's claims. What did power get in return? Your own internal political consolidation. Now for the second act. The second act was seen with tolerance at a time when the AKP (AKP) and the Prime Minister were becoming increasingly involved in autocracy, and the limits of the European Union or the Western Union's general tolerance were exceeded. Why? There's a power in Turkey, it's doing everything we want, it's opening incredible spaces in our capital with a privatisation program, what more, the neoliberal policy is more defending than we are, the IMF, the World Bank, oh, like, almost like the Kaba. But after a while, like I said, in recent years, that's why this process is blocked, and the whole trip thing is just the tipping point because the masks are falling off. Because how police and judicial violence in Turkey are being used as a means of oppression is becoming a situation that even the eyes do not want to see. That's when you hit the brakes. Of course, that new Ottomanism and so on, and so forth, and so on, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. So, I go back to the beginning and ask: Is AKP really a European Union target? The Prime Minister said it wasn't, when did he say it wasn't? At the group meeting on November 12, 2013, I won't read exactly the whole thing, just one sentence, says the Prime Minister: for the past two hundred years, this nation has been forced into the direction. What is it he called for two hundred years? It is the period of Turkey's total democratisation -- from the absolute monarchy -- that was legitimate -- that was a transition from governance to democracy, that was a whole republical revolution, that was directed to the West by Turkey, and that was the 1963 Treaty of Ankara 50 years ago -- that was two hundred years ago. So you start looking for space elsewhere. So what we're coming to from here is that the AKP is not compatible with all of these European values, it is incompatible with European values, it represents these cultural values, but it also represents the political values, political positions and suppression tools represented by the AKP (AKP), especially the appearance of a religious-based autocratic system in Turkey, which is a direct obstacle to EU integration. So the AKP itself is an obstacle to Turkey's EU membership today. This obstacle will continue throughout the AKP's rule. The first issue, therefore, is Turkey's release from the AKP. The AKP has become a block party for EU relations, with which in fact a new motive has been achieved for the EU, a government such as Turkey's accession, such as the AKP, has provided a reason for the EU. Well, if the Ministry of the European Union is in a role that can overcome this blockage, let's go there now. In fact, during the time of the ministry itself, did the EU Ministry become the ministry of erosion in the EU, in such a language that we call the Minister's diplomatic diplomatic diplomacy, or the American street fighter? That's a question to ask. So if the EU has converted into the ministry of formal erosion, then there's a problem here, if it's the whole of us -- I'm a member of the EU Commission -- if that's what we're dealing with, if that's the diplomatic language we're dealing with. Now, don't we have the right to criticize the EU? Of course there are, there are plenty of them, but it starts with seeing that you're not going to gain anything from language and insults. The point is, it's content. Now, what kind of content? First of all, before we forget that Turkey's share of AKP's concessions in the 2004-2005 process -- because we have given it all up ourselves -- that the European Union once failed to fulfill its commitments, that the European Union would play a plug in the opening of negotiations, without a doubt, its hypocritical policies. We're going to have to take that attitude at any moment. We should also say that he failed to fulfill his commitments to Cyprus. But second: If, in a process that does not lead to full membership, you are no longer able to discuss a customs union that has emerged during at least ten years -- at least during the AKP period -- then you do not have the means to negotiate. So what do you call the EU now? The Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement is between the EU and the United States, and you're saying, "Do it with me, because I will be a victim." Why would he do it with you? I mean, why do it now or what? Why would he do that? Because your customs union agreement allows it. So we have to do this: either we're going to put the customs union on the table, and we're going to turn it into a free trade agreement with the EU, or if you can't do that, you're going to condition the customs union to pass through Turkey's Parliament, where the EU has signed a new free trade agreement. There's no other solution. If you can't do these things, it doesn't go beyond the lack of context, nor does the weight of the word weigh, but the weight of the word emerges with a firm posture behind it. Now, let me bring up this matter of re-enactment agreement: Now, there's a re-signment agreement that was supposed to be signed on December 16th, which the State Department made a statement like this. Now, this re-enactment agreement and the visa-free EU travel talks, which will be launched depending on it -- at best, three years at best, three years at the earliest -- is a compromise that is being made, in fact, a new trap for Turkey, like the customs union. The customs union was primarily a target of EU membership. It didn't happen, so we have the right to renegotiate. Now, this re-enactment agreement does not have a goal of joining the EU. So three years from now, you'll get an EU membership. There's no such thing. So, this recycling agreement, to persuade Turkey to agree to this second status, through that privileged partnership, look, I'll keep you on the road, you sign this recycling agreement, and I'll give you the right to travel without a visa. Let's get him out of here. Dear friends, the right to visa-free travel was a right from Turkey through the Council of Europe in 1957. Then the Ankara Treaty, Add Protocol and so on, they were developed, in another context. In 1980, in the statement of German Foreign Minister Genscher (also) just before the coup, the government, which was just before 1980, was unfortunately given this visa issue by the government at the time. Of course, the 1980 coup added salt pepper to it, where the European Union gained a new motive, but now we have to make new concessions, new acceptance concessions to regain this old right? Now, look, the matter of feedback is such a story that if you accept it, the citizens of the third country will automatically come to Turkey -- those who have gone from Turkey -- and you cannot take them and send them to their own country because they're suing the European Court of Human Rights, which is blocking the way. In any case, visa-client bargaining is illegitimate, shameful, you must get rid of it. Turkey should not be reduced to a third-rate country. The Republican People's Party won't allow it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0034par0030	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. Muğla MP Tolga Çangar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Chandar. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0035par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, just at the beginning of my speech, before we get to the main issue, I salute all the people of the region, particularly the Milas, Mugla Central and Bodrum, who have fought against the privatisation of thermal power plants, coal mines and coal mines in the Mugla region since 27 August 2013, and have fully supported the resistance since 9 December. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) I strongly condemn police attacks against our workers who want to use their democratic rights in our Mugla, where tolerance prevails. I also condemn your martial law practices, which you have imposed on Blul for four days, as the Prime Minister will come. If you were so afraid, with 6,000 police officers... would a Prime Minister be so afraid of his own people? You were afraid you wouldn't come. The Prime Minister goes wherever he wants, of course, but why the fear? Whose thing did we call Mugla? You'd all come together, we'd go together, we'd meet at the airport, we'd meet the Prime Minister of this country... we'd go, shake hands, welcome Prime Minister. Mr. Secretary, is Milas, the breadwinner of the three generations that have been planted and harvested for over 50 years, the land of Mughla 2/B, especially in the basement, suddenly declared a tourist zone and told our villagers to go away from my land? Is it appropriate for the government of the Republic of Turkey? It's interesting that land around the village of Çamovasi, the village of the Barriers, the village of Demircier, the village of Karacahisar is suddenly declared a tourist zone. We're very curious to know what kind of investments you're going to make. Our people are extremely victims of 2/B, 894 families... we sent this to you in a large file... by hand and by mail, but even though it's been so long now... I think you've examined... I'm never ill-intentioned, I hope you'll look at it, and I hope you'll come up with a solution. Congressmans, just because an art branch is less interested than other arts does not mean that the art branch is less valuable than other arts. And we don't understand anything about that art, because it may have lost value in our eyes, but it doesn't lose anything of its true value. State support for opera and ballet is necessary because such art is not an art form that can live with a tollbooth anxiety. I mean, I've got a show today, I've got a representation, I've got two rehearsals on Wednesday, Monday... not an art major. Even during the summer, it needs constant work. For that, there must be work spaces. An opera singer, a ballet artist, doesn't grow up easy. He's just as heavily trained as a medical doctor, and his working conditions are extremely severe. Therefore, with the benefits that opera and ballet have provided for our country so far, considering the dignity it has provided for its introduction abroad and abroad, the closing of the opera and ballet should not even be considered. Today, however, the rumors that our government considers opera and ballet a burden and will be shut down make artists and stage-and-stage artists nervous. The opera lives for a year with the amount of money you pay for a fighter plane. I mean, it's the money you pay for a fighter plane, the money we're talking about today, the money we want him to go to the opera. I'm not saying this because I think it's unnecessary, but if this money -- in other words, if we had spent a very small portion of the money spent in Syria, in this Syrian adventure, in order to organize and develop Turkish culture and art life, today Turkey would be called a peaceful, artistic and contemporary country, not as a warmonger country in the world. But today, unfortunately, it hasn't been like that lately. In many countries, the opera, which is perceived as a branch of art that has entered the monopoly of privileged classes, is even more respectable in our country than in other countries, or, in fact, to us, countries that have a point of origin. We remember from our student years, Middle East Technical University, on Friday nights at 4 p.m., we took the bus to the symphony and the opera, to see opera, which my father retired to a quarry worker, and my mother went to elementary school. We're country boys, but when we went to the opera, we didn't bother at all. Why should we be bothered? If it's the right thing to do, if it's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do. Art, as Plato said, is extremely important in human education, in personality development. This kind of higher arts should be kept alive, not shut down. The State Theatres Opera and Ballet Workers' Helping Foundation (TOBAV) proposed a study for the draft of a new law with 46,643 signatures recorded in 189530 on 4 October 2013. Despite the passing of time -- October 4, 2013 -- there has yet to be a positive or negative response. After a number of times, Mr. Secretary, using the Right to Information Act No. 4982 was asked whether or not a law study had been done on this subject, but there was still no answer. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the very modest and simple things that opera and its employees want. In short, I'm running out of time- I'm going to sum it up: 1) The Foundation Act 5441 must be protected because it is proof that opera artists differ from the Law of State Officers No. 657. 2) The Act of State Officers No. 657, bound by a temporary clause in 1970, must be removed from the Act of State Officers No. 657, because there is a note in the footnote of Article 657, which states that until its own special law is made, it will be bound to its private laws and released from 657. None of the governments who came to this country since 1970 have done any work on it. I hope it'll come to you. 3) As with the definitions of the ILO and ISO, a special law must be passed, including those who actively perform opera and ballet professions and those who work behind the scenes on the job description of status by the Ministry of Labor, on the basis of these definitions, and on the rights of nature and neighbouring rights. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0036par0049	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Antalya MP Yildıray Sapan. Here you go, Mr. Sapan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0037par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute you all. But as a representative of my nation, as an representative of Antalya, I would like to begin by condemning my right to inspect whether the taxes paid by the citizen are being spent on his cause, the Court's overmanagement, and the government's block. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, dear friends, as it is known, tourism, labor is a busy industry, and it contributes substantially to the country's economy as a chimneyless industry. If the current, which has become a major problem with Turkey in recent years, does not cause a deep crisis, it is because of tourism. Tourism is known to give life water to many sectors, particularly agriculture. Turkey's geographical position on earth, its natural and cultural values, climate and rich culture, and Turkey's ideal for tourism, have not received the necessary contribution from tourism. Yes, the tourism sector in Turkey is improving, the bed and the number of tourists are increasing, but the income per tourist is, for some reason, lower every year. See, the income per tourist in 2003 is $850. That number dropped to $798 in 2012. In the first nine months of 2013, it appears to have dropped to $789, where data from a year ago also went under. Again, there is a 4.5 per cent share of tourism in the AKP's government within the illegitimate national product. In 2012, the figure was reduced to 3.7. Tourism revenues dropped from 28.2 per cent in 2003 to 19.2 in 2012. Although almost twice as many tourist beds with business and investment documents are increased, the country's income is reduced to tourists, even though tens of thousands of beds are added to the sector each year. The ministry's contribution to tourism in its budget was 34 per cent in 2002 before the AKP came to power, while in 2012 the figure was reduced to 30.7. Under 30 per cent of the 2014 budget. Mr. President, good lawmakers are a matter to be considered, a proportional reduction of revenues from the tourism sector, which allows hundreds of thousands of citizens to get jobs, which is the share of dozens of side industries, where millions of people have hope. Tour operators, with a serious share in the industry each year, have a bankruptcy of their agencies. Bankruptcy creates dominoes in the industry, killing hotel owners and workers. Hotels sell and exchange hands and often fall into the hands of strangers. Hotel managers call for support funds against such bankruptcy. Turkey's chimney-free industry is based on the stalemate of the tourism industry, which is the golden egg chicken, and the lack of planning and the indifference of power. Turkey does not really have a master plan. Some strategy plans by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism are not master plans. Without such a plan, tourism can't be expected to improve well. There's an unhealthy development with a hormonal disorder. Everyone, especially Ministry officials and tourists, is fed up in the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the Mediterranean, especially the Mugla, Antalya, so let's stop the incentives and spread the incentives elsewhere. For some reason, the majority of hotel investments are being made in the same areas again. Tourism has no master's plan, so tourism is stuck on the shores, undisclosed inland, and nature and culture tourism has not been developed. In the future, natural forests, mountains, where alternative tourism can be made, are plundered for the enrichment of a few. Turkey's oxygen tank has been abandoned to the Kaz Mountains; the Artvins, the rainforests, the rivers of Rize, the Munzur Tea of Tunisia; the Loç Valley of Castamon, Antalya's Termaara cedar forests; the Bey Mountains, the Sakicent stone pits, and the prospectors of cyanide gold seekers. Mr. President, it is a pity that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has not been heard in the face of a raid on forests, national parks, teas, canyons, which are the reserve areas of Turkish tourism in the future. It should also discuss whether there is a Minister. He is busy opening new offices in Ankara and Istanbul, spending the ministry's budget on the disbursement of these offices. Although he has been a minister for nearly a year, he has visited Antalya, the capital of tourism, once or twice. The third International Resort Tourism Congress in Antalya, where the world's most important tour operators attended the top level of financial environments, has not attended the future of the sector. This congress on November 29th includes former German Prime Minister Gerhard Schröder, but there is no host, Mr. Secretary. One day later, Lutfi didn't join the general board of travel agencies in Kırdar, İstanbul. Unfortunately, Turkish tourism is condemned only to a minister who is unaware of his duty, who is occupying seats. Dear friends, as a result, the structural problems of Turkish tourism are growing. A master's master plan must be planned for tourism with representatives and experts of the industry at once. In the tourism industry, hotel owners and travel agencies must have laws, vocational rooms. Occupational rooms must be authorized to document, so that they can promote the industry with some of the income they will receive. ▪ The system must be rearranged, including everything. ▪ The system, including everything, must be implemented in remote facilities to the city centers, and the system must be stopped in areas near city centers. Otherwise, the tradesman will be destroyed because of this system. In the early years of this system, the income per tourist, which is over a thousand dollars per tourist, is well below $700 per tourist, and it's going down more and more. Dear friends, in order for Turkish tourism to breathe, these calculations must be carried out immediately. Otherwise, a major crisis awaits the Turkish tourism sector. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0038par0071	Thank you, Mr. Sapan. Istanbul MP Sedef Küçük. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0039par0075	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the 2014 budget of the State Theatres General Directorate. I salute your high council. In 2012, I was unable to oversee the spending and operations of state theatres as necessary because the Supreme Court issued reports that the Supreme Administration had sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under the direction of political power. Using my nation's budget rights to me, I have been prevented by the government and the Supreme Court to determine whether the taxes paid by our citizens are being spent in accordance with the way they've been paid. I'd like to start by protesting this situation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, one of the ways to understand and express life is perhaps the most permanent art. Most of us know Shakespeare, but none of us remembers the name of the king who ruled during Shakespeare's time, or we may not know much about France after the revolution, but almost all of us know a little or much about the novel of Victor Hugo. Or we may not know who Bolu Bey was called by Bayoglu. Art outlives both ideology and administration. The point is, life is short, but art is infinite. While the ministry budget is being discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission, as the Minister pointed out, your economy can be destroyed, you do it again; they destroy your industry, you rebuild it, but when culture is destroyed, you will never be able to replace it again. Yes, this is why we need to look after the arts and artists, one of the most important carriers of culture and culture, and so does Article 64 of our Constitution. However, it is not possible to do so with only good words and the Constitution. If there's talk of protecting culture and art and there's a secret or open censorship in the arts, or he's been tweeting, tweeting about artists, there's a big discrepancy. If both theaters and theatreists who have been shot at by the support of art and joined the protest are therefore not being used for financial support, then there is an unjust punishment, a witch hunt. If the Ministry has the groups he helps to sign the protocol for common morality, the theatres receiving help will be taken back if they do not perform a game in accordance with the general moral code. If it is said, there is clearly pressure. All of these examples are a reflection of a thinking system that is trying to digest the artist, which aims to eliminate the opposing identity of art. It is not possible for art to be trapped in a vague and open concept, such as the general morality. First of all, what's the measurement? Where does general morality begin and where does it end? Who decides that based on what? It must be strange to talk about free art and stop art with open-ended limitations, but in countries like us. Dear lawmakers, the state theatres are not efficient, they are not made art by state hands. The privatisation or closure of State Theatres has been on the agenda for the past two years. What we have come to today from the project of making a state theater with each is truly tragic. First of all, they're treating cultural institutions as a place of business, reducing art to a simple income expense account. I'd like to be known that we're completely against this initiative by hiding behind its justification, trying to pressure the artist and the artist. Government Theatres, of course, can have problems in many areas, starting with repertoire selection, and structural problems can also be found. It's already been expressed by the actors. However, if there is a need for reform and this is a need to be done, instead of privatizing art institutions, I think the way to autonomize is preferable. That's what's been done in many modern countries. In many countries, art institutions are autonomous in a management sense, and in any of them, I give the money, so I blow the whistle. It's not in his mind. The reform today is not intended at State Theatres or State Opera and Ballet. The goal is to eliminate art. Because art isn't a supporter, and it can't be. In fact, art, by its nature, is hostile, disobedient, critical. An understanding that does not tolerate any social opposition, even the slightest criticism is not expected to condone the opposition of art, of course. (CHP applause) It's a power-guided art that's wanted to be created, and it has no example in democracies at all. However, one must be sure: the art of power is the greatest evil that can be done to a country's culture. If artists are punished for defying the practices of power, if institutions are threatened to be shut down, cultural policy is shaped according to one's wishes and preferences, you will not only damage the art world of that country, you will leave a bad legacy to the future that no one will own. A lot of power has come and gone that has left such a bad legacy. History writes books burned on the streets, banned games, censored artifacts, but history always writes that art wins. No matter how hard he tries, no matter what he does, eventually art will survive again. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the theater artist Emre Kunay, who has been taken away from the hall, asks if you can get the art out of life, what's left of life? And it goes on: no one dies, but it's a black and white world. He's telling the truth. No one has the right to take away the colors of this society, he says. In spite of all that, I wish our country's cultural life and our entire community to the best of the 2014 budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0040par0086	Thank you, Mr. Little. Army MP İdris Yildiz. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0041par0090	Mr. President, I would like to begin by condemning the Supreme Court and its government in your presence, not the Ministry of Tourism, but the Ministry of Tourism, not the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, as we have not been able to review the report that our citizens have paid the right tax, and since we have not been able to review the report that did not come to Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, after a change in the cabinet in 2013, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism took on a perception that there was a change of government, not a change of cabinet. Mr. Secretary has been on this mission for almost a year now, but it has hardly appeared outside the mandatory ceremonies, because the Minister's interest is more foreign policy and intelligence, as you all know. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary, despite his interest in the Ministry, he is constantly making new office rooms for himself, but he does not care whether public spending is in accordance with the rules or not. As soon as the Minister began his post, he didn't even thank these people who had worked with good intentions to the state and the nation, as if there had been a change of government, demanding the resignation of all senior executives of the previous era, disregarding the necessity of state courtesy. Of course, each minister has the right to choose his fellow workers and to form his own team, but it is also important to transform this change into a structure run by real culture people. As soon as the mission begins, the request for the resignation of close to all senior staff means that preparation exists. However, after changing all senior executives and bypassing the remaining executives, Mr. Secretary has handed over the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to a city-based bureaucrat who has not even had a day's experience. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism vacationed with the Minister in the summer of 2013. My dear friends, it is our greatest desire and desire to introduce to the world the voice of our country, a place of civilization, where each corner is a separate date. However, in order to do so, a right vision must be made through the right policies. The changes in the staff I described upstairs and the dismissal of competent individuals have had a negative effect on the Ministry's work. Another concern is the delays in digging, the cancellations of some digs, and some of them never begin. However, restorations, new museums and cultural centers have slowed down and some have stopped. For example, when will the construction of Van, Şanlıurfa, Hatay, Afyon, Uber museums be completed, said to be completed at the Day of the Republic of 2013? When will the construction of museums in Manisa, Denizli, Fethiye, and protocols begin? My dear friends, the Ataturk Cultural Center, as we all know, have been waiting for years in the dark in the Zomantic Square. In the summer of 2012, the restoration began during the previous Minister's term, and it was said that it would end in 2013, and even that the ECM would reopen the curtain, but as we all know, Turkey was victims of the events of the Trip at the end of May 2013. First, a statement from the Prime Minister, and then, with the Minister's instructions, the construction of the ECM was halted. Now, Mr. Secretary has announced in the Budget Commission that the ECM will be destroyed and rebuilt. There's a government tender for the restoration of the ECM; it's been relocated, half the resources for restoration are provided from the private sector, the contractor has started, but you're shutting it down on a direct order. The ECM is a different structure, we all know that. A culture that represents the architectural understanding of the 1940s, 1950s. Besides, this cultural presence has been registered. This was transformed from a concert hall to a cultural center by the decision of the late Mendes. It's a cultural presence. Now you're talking about tearing it down, making a new one. Mr. Secretary, are you a minister of law, law and law of a democratic state, of the republic's government, or are you a man of duty who limites himself to following the statements of the Prime Minister, regardless of whether or not the words he said in the case of Payum Travel Park are in accordance with the law? I'd like to ask that in particular. Governments are temporary, works are permanent. In many world cities, historical structures still exist, but no one thinks of destroying and making a new one. The ECM is one of these examples, one of the world's historical heritages. My dear friends, in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the transparency of tenders is now truly under suspicion. In this case, I'd like to address some of the negatives that the Minister's tender practices will reveal. The intellectual work of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has been in the dark for some time now, and this has reached the level that will disturb anyone who looks at it objectively. The ministry's business and tenders have lost all transparency for some time now, and it is done in an invitation form from a limited list selected by a few people in the ministry. In the ministry, all achievable issues, whether it's about culture, whether it's about tourism, whether it's about investment, whether it's about promotion or restoration, all come out of one person's permission, signature, interview. This person is neither the Undersecretary nor the Minister. The foreign advertising tender is one of the most important jobs of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. In this important tender this year's autumn, the ministry has imposed a closed procedure, contrary to previous years. Although the ministry's promotional tender for autumn each year was originally $40 million, it is known that over $100m has increased with additional funds over the year. Our expectation for such an important job is that the Ministry officials, of all foreign advisers, travel agencies, hotel managers, troops, investment and air transport troops, guides and advertisers, should be held together with experienced representatives of universities, while your ministry is not in such a practice. In fact, we've learned that you've only been bidding on one firm this year, even though it divided the business into several different companies on the world scale, as it was in the previous period. I wonder who this firm is. Why isn't this firm announced? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And most importantly, after the budget talks, when this firm is announced, he's wondering if the press reports about that firm are true, and I'm paying all of you respect.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0042par0108	Thank you, Mr. Star. Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0043par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I begin by condemning the government and the Court, which has taken away our right to control as a member of parliament, obstructing Parliament's budget and obstructing the right to public information. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If the Court's reports had come to the Grand National Assembly in a proper manner this year, we would've gotten some really serious and different information, but we didn't get it. However, we have an exception at the Ministry of Customs and Commerce. We found the original report from the Ministry of Customs and Commerce. I want to share with you what we were going to see when the report from the patriotic, revolutionary, law-abiding auditors who worked here was evaluated.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0044par0117	Bravo! All hail the patriotic, revolutionary friends from here.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0043par0118	The Court pressured the auditors to change their reports, but some changed, many resisted. The report then kicked in and censored the reports. The 250-page report from the Ministry of Customs and Trade fell to 19 pages after censorship. This was not the case in the past, and now the report has come, and what more do you want? I would like to say to the friends who tried to criticize us: The law has changed, laws 6085 and 5018 have taken accountability as a basic principle. Besides, there was a regulation on 17/12/2011, the foundations were determined, but the institutions did not inform the Court on these grounds. So, on December 8, 2013, two days before the budget talks began, we tried to document that we were supposed to repatriate change by making a different regulation change to the Court. As an MP, I asked for these documents according to the Right to Information Act from the Court's Presidency, and the Court refused to give us information and documents -- as if it was not able to obtain information of its own, but it refused to give us information and documents. What would have happened if we had gotten these documents? See, one, we were going to see the illegal aspects of the construction with a do-and-work model for modernizing customs doors. In the tender phase, in the construction stage and in the business stage, we would see what mistakes and favours were made, but it would be clear that the customs gates that were supposed to be done for God's sake were made for a serious runt, not for God's sake. According to Law 3996 and Council of Ministers' Decision 94/5907, in these tasks with the do-and-run model, there have been errors in the process of drafting, calling, receiving bids and auditing them, documents have been kept, the Court has not received these documents. The modernisation of customs doors is wrong in itself, but it was wrongly intentional. The quality of the public institution has been brought forward, and public funds have been transferred to the room and to the company of the room. The 71st Article of Law 5018 described public damage as a violation of the laws, procedures and actions of public officials due to intentional, flaws and negligence, preventing and reducing public resources. According to this definition of the law, the entire do-and-do model with TOBB is public damage. About the cost account was miscalculated by the company the TOBB found, which was agreed upon by the company. Due to this miscalculation, the operator has been given more operating time than he deserves. An estimated amount of revenue from the business is determined by the cost of investment financing. The investment finance account has been miscalculated, and it's been longer than it should have been, whether it's been calculated by companies found by the operator. Investments that should have been completed within a year of the drop-off have not been completed. However, the executive contractor did not impose any sanctions on the firm. When the project company, the control company, the manufacturer and the business company are connected, there are discrepancies, deficiencies, and violations of the contract in the process of the investments happening. What advanced technology has been used at the gate, Habur, Sarp, Cilve-Eye border crossings, and what high source of funds have been transferred? These two factors indicate that the main reason for the do-work-regulation model is that budget impossibleness, lack of funding, is not true. At all doors, the TOBB investment is 212 million, 938, 156 Turkish liras. In contrast, the total income of six years is 611 million dollars, 933, 433 liras. Which means the TOBBB has three times what it's invested in in six years. When we look at the work, the gate of the gate of the gate was given to the customs and trade of the TOBB for twenty years. The 17.5-fold deviation is not reasonable compared to the estimates in the financial analysis of the project value. In four years, three times the income of investment has been made. Business time must be reviewed immediately -- based on the determination of the auditors -- should be shortened by at least 1,700 days, or five years. There's also a problem with the x-ray device, which is most noticeable at this customs door, all of it. Indicating the same errors at the Sarp Customs Gate, auditors have determined that even though construction was not completed, the temporary operating permit was granted early, the x-ray device was again broken, the costs were inflated, the operation was launched, and the time should be reduced to at least two, two, two, twenty days, or six years. They also miscalculated 13 years of operating time predicted for the Cilve-Eye Border Gate, since they have determined that revenue projections were made by TOBB and were purposely made in its own favour. The X-ray device and the truck search hangar are mispositioned. Because of the faulty positioning, there are problems with the Cilve-Eye right now. The Habur Border Gate was built to be operated for 15 years, and similar errors continued there. Currently, inside the facility and under the contract, the dwellings that need to be made are unusable and badly manufactured. It has been determined that the dwellings in question are about to be destroyed. All customs doors have problems with x-ray devices. In addition, the ministry has made internet and computer investments out of its own pocket. The X-ray device at the Sarp Border Gate has not been repaired or processed for 46 days. Notice, the common problem is a problem caused by miscalculation, and it's all public damage. So, if these auditors' reports were presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we would have seen them clearly and we would have found out. Is that all that's wrong? No, it's not. Under Article 244 of the Customs Law, the agreement was brought, and the agreement was reached to buy 100 million,478,680 euros, and when the auditors asked for the documents, they were not given documents on the grounds that it was confidential. With whom these compromises were made, how were they made, what conditions were they done, was it done right, a mechanism to oversee this is not carried out by the government, it has been eliminated, and the Parliament cannot supervise. However, Article 1 of Law 5018 brings the principle of fiscal transparency and accountability. The Ministry of Customs and Trade violated that principle, did not answer, and opposed those who wanted to answer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the citizen pays his taxes, I say the government must pay its dues. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0045par0135	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. First speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Tekirdağ MP Bulent Belen. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Belen. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0046par0140	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget for 2014. I hereby salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of its screens. Budgets are documents of countries' economic and social struggles to exist. Budgets are a social contract in democratic societies. As such, budgets are also a transfer of authority. The transfer of authority, on behalf of the nation, demonstrates its authority to fund and spend on the government by allowing its representative, Parliament, to approve the budget. The economic goals envisioned in the budget must be compatible with our nation's expectations and demands, with the real state of the economy, with the world's economic conjuncture. As a social contract, the importance of the budget is how and where public resources are being collected. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's come to our European Union adventure. It has been 50 years since we applied to the European Economic Community on 31 July 1959 and were formally awarded the Treaty of Ankara on 12 September 1963. From where did the AKP government's classical rhetoric go? The statement will be a very appropriate expression for our trip to the European Union. Let's go back for a moment, and nine years before that, remember the fireworks that were fired during the day at Kızılay Square in Ankara. The Prime Minister and his followers were hailing the people on the bus as if we had entered the European Union. However, in the past nine years, we have not been able to travel a length of barley. We've got nothing but a half-finished chapter and an interim shut-down chapter. These chapters depend on a number of political developments and the stance of the Greek Cypriot government. That's why the process can't move forward. The Ministry of the European Union also presented the European Union Progress Report in 2013 as if it were a success. Because isn't the foundation of the European Union free movement of goods and labor? Why can't we get there without any conditions? For us, the conditions are always the same: regional policy, support for local governments and local autonomy. The process of solutions for you comes as a result of this process, which we call the process of destruction and betrayal. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our 50-year journey to the European Union and the events and developments we've had on this journey have shown that this business is well locked down. The government needs to sit down and think it through and draw a new road map. The European Union is distracting us, not sincere, so to speak, 50 years of engagement must come to an end. As the National Movement Party, we have no objection to marriage, we just asked for honorable membership. We need to save our dignity. There's no membership in honorable membership, so let's save our dignity. Let's sit down and spend our time here doing better work for the country. We need to discuss the customs union and the trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. What will happen to Turkey? Because of the customs union, we already have some disadvantages against the third countries. Our problem will only get bigger if our major commercial partners, the European Union and the United States, agree on a deal between themselves, especially if Turkey is not involved. You've camouflaged the situation beautifully, and you say: "We've reduced our dependence on the European Union. " It's not a conscious policy choice to reduce our dependence on the European Union. This was born as a necessity because a crisis broke out in Europe. This must be made permanent, market diversification. If this disadvantaged position continues, if the European Union and the United States sign this agreement, there will be no reason for Turkey to remain in the customs unit. Mr. President, we attended the European Parliament's seminar on Youth and Education in the Western Balkans on Brussels on 6-7 November 2013 as AKP, CHP, and MP from the CHP. We conducted a seminar with parliamentarians from Turkey, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia and the European Parliament. At the end of the seminar directed by the German Parliamentary Miss Doris Pack, I witnessed some very remarkable talks. I'd like to pass on some of this to you. German Parliamentary Mr. Doris Pack was sitting on both sides and opposite Croatia, representing Serbia and Bulgaria, and we took you into the European Union. The other candidate, the country's parliamentarians, we're going to take you with us. When I heard these words, I was concerned that the European Union would cease to be the European Union and become a German empire. Germany, of the strongest group in the European Union, has a clear view of our membership. I ask you: What are we missing as Turkey from these countries that have been accepted into the European Union? What is it in these countries that isn't in our country? Because the European Union wanted it, we forced the Annan Plan in Cyprus to accept it by pressuring the Turkish Cypriot. The Greek part, which did not agree to this plan, was made a full member of the European Union. Now, I'd like to say a few words about our membership, about the words of the European parliamentarians at our meeting in Brussels. They tell us: "If you do not fulfill the terms of the Treaty of Ankara, there will be no further openings for you. " In short, the European Union is constantly doing injustices and Turkey has every reason to show that it does not intend to take the European Christian Union. Mr. President, it's time to wake up from the dream of the European Union, where our nation has lost its reputation, and the great Turkish nation has withdrawn its support every day, and turn to new economic and political unity. Mr. Secretary in charge of the European Union, isn't it enough to wait hundreds of years for the glory of these states that our ancestors served and ruled? The best thing you can do as the AKP government is to change the name of the Ministry of the European Union, to make the ministry of the Turkish world, and to lead a new formation under the leadership of Turkey. Let's form a Turkish economic and political union with the Turkish republics and open up new markets, new horizons. Mr. Almazbek Atambayev, who visited our country on 12 January 2012, was an interpreter of the feelings of every Turkish member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I believe. Mr. Atambayev, who stated that two Turkish soldiers who held their backs against each other and shot arrows at their enemies, had drawn pictures on the stone. This is what is called the solidarity of friends. With that understanding, the great Turkish clan was established and survived for two hundred years. Even if we can no longer establish the great Turkish clan, we must at least consolidate the brotherhood of Turkish states, a strong Turkish union. He expressed not only our desires, but the desires of the Turkish republics in Central Asia. By the way, I can't help but mention that the AKP's famous statement, which was said by a so-called professor, who was a member of the Central Decision Board, and was based on no basis at all. I think Mr. Atambayev gave that person the best answer long before. So, what is this Turkish union, what does it mean? The Turkish Union, in its broad definition, is a political concept of the economic and political organisation of Turkish communities living in Turkey, autonomous governance and other countries, in short, under one roof and under one roof of the Turkish world. In a narrow sense, it is an idea that Turkish-speaking states can come together and form a structure similar to the European Union. So, the common alphabet with the Turkish union, the free movement of goods and services with the Turkish republics in Turkey and Central Asia, and the common currency use of joint currency and the common administrations, is the meeting of all countries in an economic, social and cultural denominator. It is the Turkish Union to manage the young population, technology, and very important underground and off-site resources. One nation, two states. We call Azerbaijan, a Turkish shaman of the imperialist forces, who have joined our homelands Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and other Turkish states to rule the world and ride as they wish. It also manages coal deposits in the Karaganda region of Kazakhstan, oil reserves in the Ural-Emba basin, and oil deposits in copper, lead, zinc, iron, manganese beds, oil, natural gas, Uzbekistan, oil, copper and gold mines, coal, copper, oil and natural gas deposits in Kırgyzistan, and all the riches that Turkmenistan has in the country. It's an ideology where our citizen warms up cheaply, fills his car with fuel, his pocket doesn't burn, his wallet doesn't burn when he's lighting his stove. We do all our duty in opposition for this love and goal with millions of citizens who are willing to join the National Movement Party and the National Movement Party. By the will of God, we will do even more in our power. Mr. President, the time has come for plans to be made to become the engine, router, manager of the world economy, as this union has been established, as a result of the construction of economic, political and social unity with the Turkish union, which will first be under Turkey's leadership, and then to join this union -- because it is strong. As a result of this and the fact that this is happening, with the end of the ongoing totalitarian regimes in the world, violent capitalism and exploitation, instead of being given the right to the strong, not to the right, to the right, to a world where people live in peace, where there is no death of hunger. You are not producing a project. The government, which is being charged with saying "project," was unable to implement 12 years of mandatory education, social security policies and, of the projects that the National Movement Party had copied from the National Movement Party and prepared for nearly 500 men in 1999. By the grace of God, the Lord God, he wishes to carry out our great Turkish Union Project, and to carry out other projects as the Nationalist Movement Party, to raise the prosperity of this country as soon as possible, to increase the welfare of these people, of the Turkish nation, to bless the Genab- His Holiness's Nationalist Movement Party in the upcoming elections, to bring blessings to our country, to the 2014 budget.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0047par0157	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Paddle Congressman Bahattin Sugar. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sugar. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0048par0161	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party for the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2014. Madam Secretary wasn't here, but he did.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0049par0163	I'm listening, I'm watching you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0048par0164	Okay, thank you. Today, the economic, social, cultural and political effects of tourism are increasingly important, especially in terms of its role in international relations. With services and studies in culture and tourism, I'm sure it's our wish that our country, with our country's voice to the world and its introduction to humanity and its message to the outside world, be determined and delivered to all of us. Our country's wealth should grow to a more branded, professional, and higher rankings in the world, with the right approaches to the organization of state institutions, through investments and values of institutions in the sector, through an understanding that produces material and spiritual values. The importance of tourism in our country and the world is increasing, tourism trends are gaining diversity, new places attract people. In recent years, it has been known that a conscious cultural tourism has taken the place of wandering aimlessly. Those who come for cultural tourism visit more than one tourist area during their visits. Tourism at national and international levels is developing business volumes and investments, providing revenue and foreign currency inputs, opening new jobs, affecting social and cultural life. While sea, sand and solar-based coastal tourism continue to matter, there have been changes and differences in tourist demands in recent years. In the tourism market, competition is accelerating, and places with natural and cultural attractions, thermal spaces, plateaus, health tourism, faith tourism, winter sports, yacht tourism, congress and fair tourism also stand out. There is improvement in these areas. All of these are areas of Turkey's potential and experience. By diversifying tourism in this way, the tourist can actually remove our country from its visit and face our country's ancient and rich culture. Our seven districts and 81 provinces have their own beauty. The few savings in the world are still alive in our country, waiting to be preserved, and still in the introduction stage. If serious breakthroughs are made, our people are informed and shaped by investments, Turkey's best option will be culture and tourism activities. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, each of the seven geographical regions in our home, the center of civilisations and the four seasons, have a different significance, with the charm of natural beauty, historical places, different textures, rural and urban places, cultural charm. Unfortunately, in this wealth of our regions, domestic and international tours, programs and projects are not expected. This, of course, does not suit our country's cultural and tourism potential. To develop tourism in less developed areas, to support infrastructure in tourist areas, to protect the environment, to have common cultural heritage, to promote quality in the industry, to give new special incentives, to contribute to museums and cultural spaces, to contribute to manual arts and tourist products, to have living cultural heritage and non-resistant cultural heritage, to improve the development of the tourist profile, I think, should be the main work of our ministry. The transformation of the tourist from abroad and the development of the tourist profile are somewhat related to the development of domestic tourist activities. Look, on this occasion, I'd like to touch something that has been talked about for years, but has not been achieved at the expected level. The young generation, especially in our culture and in our homeland, lives without realizing the wealth. Various possibilities and circumstances are limited. This must be stopped from being unfortunate. From the elementary school years, the sons of this country must gain memories in their own wealth, from Çanakkale to Mardin, from Tripoli to Zagla, from İzmir to Kars. From Bilicik to Diyarbakır, from each region to Diyarbakır, to read the saga of brotherhood and integrity under the moon-star flag. Hopefully, this will be resolved by joint projects with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Yes, those who bear witness to the kingdom of Sarikamiş, those who read the great saga written in Çanakkale, will be more pleased. My dear friends, valued lawmakers; the cost and projects of projects under the Ministry of Culture and Tourism need to be properly illuminated at the point of both the sector and the public. The public is not properly informed about the ongoing projects, and there is a shortage of them. Resolving this deficiency is also important for goals set as important for the resuscitation of the sector as it is for dynamics and continuity. Clearly, a specific action plan requires an organisation and a vision of state and sector integration. Turkey must have developed a model for cultural and tourism activities and implement them with its own dynamics. Some applications cloud the vision that we have expressed in this sense. See, in particular, there is a need to prevent distortions in coastal settlements, to preserve their tissue, to prevent arbitrary practices that authorities and those in charge may have implemented around here. Unfortunately, by this time, in our tourist areas, in our coastal regions, there has been even more brutal construction over the past decade, which has been unstoppable from warped construction and concreteization. Our nature has been destroyed, our tourist zones left unconsciously at the mercy of concrete structures. There has been an environment in which tourists are surprised, our people are insensitive, investors are careless, and the bureaucracy does not carry out its authority and responsibility. Dear MPs, of course, you can't remind us of the distorted construction in our tourist areas and forget Istanbul. One of our most important cities in tourism is Istanbul, which unites the two continents with a unique value and importance worldwide. History cannot be written without Istanbul. The future historians will not understand the world until they understand Istanbul. In Istanbul, our historical and cultural sites, our museums should be given greater importance, not allowed to damage this historical fabric, but the artistic values here should be developed, as Turkey's window to the world. In this sense, in Istanbul, the problems of deviant urbanization have become a mountain. This must prevent the destruction of our city's fabric, its nature, its culture, its architecture. See, the most important flaw in this province is the chaos of Istanbul traffic and the safety of life. Of course, transportation opportunities have recently been tried to diversify, projects are being produced and implemented. At the same time, our security forces are making a real effort in Istanbul. However, this matter of traffic and safety has become an image of Istanbul. This must be stopped from being the fate of Istanbul. We have our ministers here, the Istanbul MPs. Look, the other day, when I got back from abroad, I got off at the airport, and I got out of Istanbul in exactly two hours and fifteen minutes. Traffic has become very important for Istanbul, both in the Olympics and in the image of Turkey today. Mr. President, the most important thing for the Turkish tourism industry to resolve its problems and take necessary measures for years is the adoption of a tourist framework law that includes all parts of tourism. We commend and congratulate you on the return of our historical and cultural assets abroad and the effort to show our wealth in our own homeland. I hope these studies continue. We say at every opportunity: countries that have not returned these works of Turkey since many years have brought a black mark before history. So we thank everyone who's worked on this for our country. However, it is important to remind you that the smuggling of historical artifacts is a painful fact for our country. Thousands of historical artifacts and thousands of cultural values have either been stolen abroad or smuggled abroad. In this regard, new units, not just our security units, but the organization of all institutions and organizations, must be re-established. There is no other country in the world that has such riches and is so insensitive to this cultural and historical heritage. Just a few weeks ago, 30 paintings were seized in an operation launched by our Ankara police to find lost artifacts from the Museum of Arts and Sculptures, followed by a census by the Ankara Museum of Arts and Sculpture. Minister, you are most responsible for this matter. The most severe punishment and sanctions must be carried out, whether it's smuggling historical artifacts abroad or abroad. Turkey is the transit point and centre of some crimes, one of its main crimes is the smuggling of historical artifacts. Turkey's cultural wealth and historical heritage must be saved from such looters. The world's richest classical writing works are known to be in Turkey, and are said to be around 700,000. These thousands of writings must be protected by new institutionalizations and passed on to future generations, healthy and meticulously used. The most important thing here is to do an inventory study on these. The manuscripts are extremely important. See, in recent days, 147 tons of books and written materials from your Ministry's National Library have been sold between 15 and 50 cents a kilo in hundreds of rare artifacts dating back a long time. You know that. These artifacts, which were sent to the junkyard in 11 trucks without a list of documents, and the sealed books of the National Library, appeared to be sold with large sums outside. Again, it turns out that 346 thousand books were left to rot in national library warehouses. Madam Secretary, it is said that more than half of the library's book treasure is not on record. Hundreds of artifacts and books of historical significance are alleged to have never been processed. It's indifference, insensitivity, ingratitude. They're said to be too worn out to save. That's irresponsible. Will it be kept silent in the face of this dire situation and irresponsibility, and will those who do so not answer? There's something else. Again, in Istanbul, from the palace to the house. The person who kidnapped Selim's throne was referred to as the director of the museum, Konya, the former post after the incident of the kidnapping of the throne in the press and a huge public reaction. However, this time in the Mezlanah Museum, he removed the precious pool of Shebiarus, a memory of centuries, on the grounds that it was leaking water from below, and he failed to get it done a few feet away. Moreover, the historical marbles of the pool were also torn apart by the same carelessness and ignorance. At the same time, Turkish-friendly Pakistani famous poet Mohammed Iqbal and our court poet, Nef Tayyipi, unfortunately removed the symbolic gravestones on these grounds. Is this Museum Manager, the builder, the gravedigger, the lover of thrones and couches who are responsible for protecting our historical works, or are they all of them? Who's going to explain that? Who's gonna pay for this? Those responsible must answer quickly and pay their dues. In developed countries, such things don't happen, and even if they do, they're not covered by anyone. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made great progress in our country in recent years, especially in the film industry, and they have also been interested abroad. Our ministry should give the film industry the necessary support. The development of Turkish cinema, the recognition of Turkish artists, the values that this country offers to the world, is very flattering to all of us. Many of our artists in the film and television industry are admired in other countries and contribute to the recognition of our country with millions of dollars that can't be done and priceless. The works of Turkish cinema and television industry are published in many countries. The continuation of these publications should be supported by films, shows and documentaries made by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Especially in Islamic countries, in Turkish republics, in Balkan countries, these productions show that I think the cultural and historical geography we're addressing is still invigorating. Yes, the best response to all black propaganda about our country, hostile lobbying, or the efforts of certain evil centers will be this series and films. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, have seen the development of art and the development of the artist and the rise of Turkish culture as they aim to achieve and overcome the level of complex civilizations. In the founding of our Republic, art activities have been replaced as one of the building blocks in the founding of the state, with an insight into this cultural and art activities. Art is also a sign of modernity because it has a enriching and progressive power. The Conservatory, opera, ballet, theatre, orchestraless countries have failed to develop their national culture and, of course, their democratic culture, as well as their social development. See, the geography we live in is filled with examples of this. The importance of art and artists is especially meaningful to our region because the sufferings, insensitivity, ignorance, domination, dictators who have never been discussed, absolute kingdoms, unquestionable orders, have become the fate and vicious cycle of Muslim communities living in our region. As we all know, the vicious cycle has brought brutal slaughters, rapes, invasions and invasions. In societies where art and artist are silenced, pushed back, meaning is lost, devalued, discredited, there is bad taste, insensitivity, and remorse. It's the artists and artists who make you mature and have savings, who give you a level and understanding of what knowledge gives you, who make you mature, who enlighten societies, who guide civilisations, who come out of our midst. Yes, we've been watching recently drafting a new law in the field of music and stage arts that will eliminate all of our artistic existence. The issue of the development of art in Turkey is that if it is at the mercy of a single institution or an organization of 10 people, it appears to be a political guardianship over art and artists. No one would agree that democracy, freedom, art, and artist should be granted a concession above rights and law, a custody debate. However, with such legislation, it is evident that a censor and political custody of art is intended. Unfortunately, this law shows that all art institutions in Turkey's radical arts institutions, State Theatres, State Opera and Ballet and the General Directorate of Fine Arts have been eliminated. The bill, which is supposed to come to parliament, intervenes in art at two points. The bill first aims to censor and politicize art, and secondly, to create the art market, to fully commercialise art, and to get a runt. This and such approaches prevent the free expression of art from becoming political and commercial material. The development of this country cannot be without art and artistry. Even if it's counterproductive, you shouldn't be afraid of art and artists. An artless, tasteless, heartless, unconscionable society leads itself to disaster as a damaged society. And those who won't allow it are those in authority and responsibility who contribute to the development of the art in his country. Otherwise, the forbidden and censored logic will be humiliated by the power of art. History is filled with many examples. As I put an end to my words, I must say that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has so few targets and projects for this budget. And I would also like to say the last thing about my own knowledge to the Minister: that you will support the canyon in Yenipazar, which is located in Yenipazar, and that Bilecik is a cradled in salvation, and believes that you will get close to the other problems in the provinces and provinces, and I wish our budget to be good and good luck, and I wish you success.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0050par0193	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Iğdır MP Sinan Okan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the current budget of 2014 of the Ministry of Customs and Trade and the Association of Competition. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I remember Day Sazak Bey, our martyred Minister of Customs and Tekel, who has done his duty with honor and honor and sacrifice. Dear friends, before I start talking about the Ministry of Customs, the Competition Foundation, I'd like to rephrase a few issues that I've mentioned here before. If you remember, I brought up some corruption files on Iğdır University here and gave the file to our Minister of National Education as well. I've called the prosecutors, and I've made it very clear to our nation here, but it seems that these corruptions, the files we've given them, have no value at all, and so far nothing has been processed. So, the question arises to our mind, whether you're willing or not, if you're not going over the corruption file that we gave you with his document, with his proof, with his file, then you're a partner in this corruption. There's no other explanation. Another issue: For some reason, many tenders made in Iğdır have always been received by those who walk with AKP power and especially by the AKP Mayor's company. And we've given the files to relevant locations. In particular, all tenders made at the State Special Administration have been submitted to AKP's Iğdır Province President, Jabbar Prime Minister. That's where I'm going to put your name, Mr. Group Vice President, and I'm hoping that this will explain why. Now, dear friends... Mr. Minister of Customs has arrived. Well, I'm glad.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0052par0205	Not now, I've been here all along.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0206	Madam Secretary, I looked before I could speak, and I'm glad you weren't there. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0052par0207	I've been here since you started talking, I have witnesses.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0053par0208	And he came running, and he was there. I'm a witness.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0209	I'd like to thank the Minister for his kindness. Mr. Secretary, I wish your friends who would come to fill empty seats in the same empty-handed AK PARTI rows would show up, but if we could count 20 of them...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0054par0210	No, no, there aren't 20. You're very optimistic.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0055par0211	19 people...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0212	Yeah, there were 19 of them.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0056par0213	How many do you have?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0214	If we rate, compare your number of deputies to ours, you probably won't have an answer. Dear friends, I've just written the words "Secretary Ministry" and "Corruption" on a search engine, with 278,000 results. Minister, if the computer is in front of you, you can write it. I've written the words "Secruk" and "Strike" and came up with 245 thousand results. I've written the words "Sumruk" and "Transport" and 656 thousand results. Only 718 thousand results came out of the word "smuggling." I've written the words "trafficking" and "terrorism," with 1 million 460,000 results. I've written the words "trafficking" and "PKK" and 1 million to 130,000 results. I've written the words "trafficking" and "AKP" and 567 thousand results. You don't like the AKP, you call it the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0057par0216	You've done a lot of work.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0217	I've written the words "trafficking" and "AK PARTY" and 1 million and 140,000 results.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0058par0218	▪ Have you written smuggling and fucking MHP?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0219	In the end, I wrote the words "AKP" and "PKK" and 5 million 260,000 results. Again, you don't like the AKP, and I said, let's write the AK PARTY and the PKK, 10 million 100,000 results.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0059par0220	But that's not gonna happen, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0221	Well, actually, these numbers put it all out there, guys.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0060par0222	How many results would it have been if you had written about the fugitives and the MHP?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0223	Fifteen minutes here, we don't really need to talk. The words "AKP" and "PKKK" became identical. You don't need a court report for that. However, you no longer bring the Court's report here, and thanks to the court, the report is already being translated into a bird; there is no need for that. If you write these on a search engine -- so many months -- that when you write them on one of the search engines -- it turns out that when you write them down, it's like a day in Turkey, where smuggling becomes identical to your power, where trafficking is the most important thing to be considered as terrorism, and your name and the terrorist organization are like Siamese twins. Therefore, when our citizens write the words "AKP," the PKK, smuggling, they will be able to see these results clearly. Now, if we can get a little more specific, the Customs Department and the Competitiveness Agency... let me just say from the very beginning that your competitiveness is flawed. What kind of competition do you have in mind that you're tagging the MIT? When the businessman is one of you, when he's a mujahideen contractor, when he's an MHP guy, when he has national and spiritual values, you go and tag MIT. Were you able to get out of here and deny the press reports? You couldn't deny it. If that's how you see the competition, then woe to our businessmen. Of course, your separatism is so registered -- and by the way, I'd like to say -- you're putting a separate pressure on the businessmen, and you're putting a separate pressure on our unions because they have the word "Turk" on their head. Our trade unions in the Customs Ministry, the union of the Turkish nation, and our people who belong to our unions are under your pressure. The same is true of the Competition Association. The purpose of the Competitiveness Agency is stated in the 20th article of the Law:: there was a small tradesman who had a free and healthy competitive environment of the markets; and now there was so much of a small business in Turkey that you put into Turkey; in the past, indeed, we all knew one to one, on our neighborhood, on our way, on our credits, on our way, when we had to hand over our keys, when we had to hand over our keys, but you, let alone the competition environment of our neighborhood, had so much of the foreign companies that you had to put into Turkey so much, you had to do so much of all the empty spaces in the neighborhood that you had to do so much today, of course that you had to close that you had to a small store in the small neighborhood. Mr. President Nurettin Leafman says on the website - President of the Competition Foundation - he needs at least 20 years to catch up with a sushi master. If I'm not mistaken, sushi is a dish of Japanese cuisine. But the President's concern is not that a sushi master should grow; a bean, a rice, whatever you can think of, an abscene from the Turkish cuisine, the stone dumplings of our region, the master who will cook them, think of the restaurants that will serve them. You're planting malls everywhere, and I'm afraid we're out of restaurants to serve them today, because the mall, like mushrooms, is surrounded by fast food.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0061par0228	It's a private enterprise, not a government.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0229	If you don't go after the state's property for private enterprises, the private enterprise won't if you don't take the land of your citizen's property under the name of TOKI and then turn it over to your ally, who you hired as a mujahideen contractor. He'll make a special attempt, of course. Well, the foreign capital of the hand is my private venture, isn't it, the foreign firms of the hand, the private enterprise of our neighborhood, the people of our village, the private enterprise? It's not for you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0061par0230	Let him do it, won't he?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0231	So, if it's a competition, what's the deal with this media? Some media organs are being confiscated as TMSF. So why is it being confiscated? So the AKP propaganda can be carried out by the government? You seize it, you do your propaganda there for at least two years, three years, you do AKP propaganda from the legal tax that people earn with their hard work, and then you turn it on to another aide. So, what's the Competition Society doing, picking pears, watching bostan? I'm asking the Competitive Association: Why don't you interfere with the TV and media broadcasting bodies that promote AKP propaganda in TMSF? Of course, once in a while you write a ticket -- and I'm curious -- why can't you collect these tickets? If you collect, will your followers be in trouble? Of course, I don't go into Turkish TELEKOM. The issue of Turkish TELEKOM continues for seven years. The monopoly position of Turkish TELECOM is still in the fiber optic cables. Another strange thing is that government officials are being audited, they're being executed by them, and a camera is being set up next to each of them. Of course, you've made the citizen paranoid with the MOBESEs, listening, etcetera, etcetera, and one government official left, and now you're using them to plant a camera on every civil servant. In our country, unfortunately, everything is on the run. He's put such a burden on your smuggling power that you're smuggling into the court's report, you're missing out on people's control. I mean, you're sort of a smuggler, Mr. AKP government and concerned ministers. Mr. Prime Minister's Rifat father is taking it to court reports. You tried to hide it in the Court reports, but you failed, so it was reflected somehow. On the other hand, Mr. Davutoglu's brother Mesut is taking him from customs. You're trying to hide him, too. From both customs and ports, Rifat takes your father, and from one side, your brother Mesut. Whose money is he taking? He's taking away the Turkish nation's money, he's taking away the Turkish nation's rights, the orphan's rights.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0062par0235	Since they don't know the definition of a nation like that...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0236	Dear lawmakers, of course, it has come to such a point that our borders have turned into an inn that is now 1,000-2. A thousand riders attack our border. The riders are coming together, and smuggling is now part of the organized carousel network. And unfortunately, since you're worried that both our soldiers and our police will be tied up in that sense, that your process won't be harmed, that way, the cavalry is now attacking our border. Well, there are worse dimensions to the matter. The customs building, the building with files on imaginary exports, corruption, bribery, is being robbed -- daytime, nighttime -- does not make any difference. I mean, we knew a lot of things had been robbed; they'd steal refrigerators, you know, whatever valuables were stolen, we knew they had been stolen, but we also witnessed the theft of the Customs Department's building during your time in power. Now you can't protect your Ministry's building by smuggling, looting, theft, corruption. How can he protect the state's border if he can't protect the Ministry of Law's building? Of course not. I expressed it here last year. Trafficking has become so organized, especially the PKK's terrorist organization has advanced so much that it has piped the border and put a refinery next to it. Now, we're looking at it this year, and it's been pretty productive, and they've got olive oil in the pipeline. Back home, thanks to you, the one who spreads the pipe! In order to smuggle olive oil, yes, they put pipes in the border; it's in the press; I think our Minister is following the newspapers. In our conversation here last year, we said that the oil pipelines were smuggled in and the refinery was built next to it. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, if you've gone over it, or if that refinery is being modernized these days, we're wondering the answer. Of course, there's something to be said here. As your senior administration, you're dry, well-pleased, but it's important to state that the state of the customs guards at the customs gates is pathetic, as well as the situation of the customs guards who stand 24 hours a day with a gun, endangering their lives from time to time. And it is imperative that customs guards be included in the safety services class as soon as possible, or that customs protection services be equipped with all the rights and powers vested in law enforcement by class violations. Everything is on the run in Turkey. From illegal laborers to illegal cigarettes, illegal cigarettes to illegal tea, everything's on the run.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0063par0242	Sugar...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0064par0243	Until the fugitive person.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0244	Everything's off the grid. The President of the Chamber of Traders and Artists Confederacy -- who is sane, let me remind you -- says there's a 27 percent illegal economy. You know, one of you, you don't have much of a chance of denying it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0065par0245	It's true when you're smart.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0246	Of course, it's true for them. It's what they say when they're smart. Did Mr. Palandöken write in his mental report that the missing economy of 27 per cent flows into terrorism, and that it is the government, and that the government will actually prevent terrorism by preventing it? We don't know.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0065par0248	Peace will be broken, peace will be broken.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0249	In Turkey, cigarette smuggling costs the economy 5 billion, alcohol 6 billion, fuel 10 billion. There's so much smuggling going on now, it's smuggling small animals and cattle. Well, congratulations are in order. The animal is smuggled in, it's imported. Look, the animal gets smuggled in, the straw we give it is imported. Well, one farmer's native; at least import the potential farmer, and at least import the farmer. So, let's take it a little further, e, import the government from the outside, some of it's illegal. So now everything's on the run. In the meantime, electricity is illegal, especially in the southeast, with 80 percent of the electricity on the loose, and you still haven't been able to take care of it, and unfortunately, our citizen who pays his bill regularly for the month with his toilet. Well, everything's illegal here: they're laying pipe down across the border; they're illegal; they're smuggling electricity; they're smuggling small animals; they're smuggling cattle; they're smuggling hay. And what do you do, Mr. Secretary? Well, then you can't protect your own building. It's stolen, too.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0066par0251	Tea's on the loose.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0051par0252	Of course, more importantly, tea. I told you last year that the Rize Chamber of Commerce has a report. There was no pressure from God. They filed another report this year. According to you and the Prime Minister's fellow minister, the Rize Chamber of Commerce, smuggling will finish the tea in Turkey. Some claim that some of your seniors are even being brought to the tea plants in Rize, where they mix the tea and sell it to the citizens. I mean, smuggling is that size, Mr. Secretary, in the reports of your own citizen, the trade market in Rize, this has been compromised. You know, maybe you wouldn't believe it if we said it, but I guess I'm hoping you'll believe your own citizen and your own fellow citizens' report. Well, dear friends, since everything's going smoothly through border crossings, especially from the border crossings outside Iğdır, if there's equality in this country, if smuggling is so free, gas and diesel is all gone, well, I'd like to ask you, I'd like to ask you, because I've been asked by the warm citizens. Just 50 kilometers from here, Georgia passes by with tankers, and you don't make a sound; just ahead, it passes through Habur, passing through everywhere. Either you have taken the ruler in Iğdır, and you measure the stores of every passing vehicle by inches. Are my citizens subject to another country's law? I wonder why you give this punishment to the citizens of Iğdır. It must be that he didn't vote for you, but I assure you, as in the general elections in the local elections, the Iğdır citizen will be asking you to answer for it, Mr. Secretary and Mr. AKP's power. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Everything you've got is on the run. You'll see, you'll be a fugitive in Iğdır. On this occasion, I wish that our Ministry's budget, despite all sorts of smuggling, would be a blessing, with respect.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0067par0258	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0068par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0067par0260	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0068par0261	Mr. President, Mr. Oğan has accused both our group and our Mr. Group President, especially at the point of corruption and smuggling. I want an answer, sir, without bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0069par0262	There's a government minister there. What are you doing in the ministry?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0070par0263	The deputy presidents of the group said to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0071par0264	No, no, just because the ministers don't know...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0072par0265	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Don't let any more taunts get in the way.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Oğan, I don't know what state of mind this conversation was in. I've just written about corruption at work, smuggling at the AK PARTY... I don't know what psychology or meaning he's doing it in. Now I'm asking him, I just looked at it. I've written 140,000 results. Are you from the PKK? Can you come to that conclusion? I wrote about corruption in Sinan Oğan. 81,350 results came out.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0074par0273	He came out because he was investigating, and the results came out because you did. Ask the truth!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0274	And with that logic, can you become a PKK member? Can you commit corruption?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0075par0275	But look, even you don't believe it, but people believe the other one.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0276	Dear brothers, dear friends, once in a while the conversation is wrong. All the accusations, all the slanders, all the slanders are wrong. He gave me the name of the mayor, but let him ask if he's the mayor or not. He's an Iğdır MP. That's what I'm asking him. Now, my dear brothers, look at the hungry results, there's the International Corruption Perception Index. This is not Turkey's arrangement, it's an international index. In this index, in 2002, in your power, Turkey ranked 65, which was among 102 countries in terms of corruption perception, and Turkey ranked 53, among 177 countries at this point. In what era was corruption committed? When was it made? That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0076par0279	That's what happens when you tie the hands of judges and prosecutors.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0077par0280	Bring me the Court reports.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0281	You say: "You are taking the money of the nation. " This nation knows very well who is taking its own money. At this rate, you will import the government.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0076par0282	You planted matchwater at the root of the inspection boards!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0283	Dear friends, the government's import was a phase, what happened?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0078par0284	What about the inspection? What happened to the Court? No audit, no judge, no prosecutor...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0285	Aren't you the ones who imported Kemal Dervis during your reign, your coalition government? If the government is imported, it's you who import it, it's your coalition period. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) So this conversation is all wrong, all over slander, slander...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0078par0286	Bring the Court reports, Court! Bring me the Customs Trade report!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0287	If you have one file, a solid file, whoever does it, let's take corruption to the end, the law, the judiciary...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0078par0289	Do not hide the Court reports.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0073par0290	Let's all stand behind him until the end. There's corruption here. It's not what you say, it's not what you do. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0079par0293	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0080par0294	Mr. Aydın, bring in those corruption reports.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0081par0295	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0082par0296	I gave him an index, index.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0080par0297	Let's see what we got. Let's go!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0083par0298	Please, if you'll be quiet, I'd like to hear from Mr. Okan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0084par0300	Mr. Group Vice President asked me a question and asked for an answer from the bench, and he also made an accusation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0083par0301	Here you go. Please don't give me any more taunts.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0085par0303	Sir, ours isn't teasing.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0083par0304	Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0306	Mr. President, we're not picking on you, we're stating the facts here, but in one thing, we appreciate Mr. Group Vice President, he's learning fast. Yes, he really did write there, and he made some announcements...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0087par0307	I wrote it down.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0308	We have determined that they will learn, and they will learn.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0088par0309	Well, isn't it the same thing when you write "smuggling" and "AK PARTY"? Does this not indicate that the AK PARTY is struggling with smuggling?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0310	We'll, of course, look at the contents of the smuggling, and if you want, let's look at the contents of the bride.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0089par0311	Look, look.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0312	When you write, you see Sinan Okan (Synan Okan) and the PKK (PKKK) that Sinan Okan (KKK) has lived a lifetime in the fight against terrorist organizations and their accomplices. When you write, you will see that there are hugs in Diyarbakır, hugs with Barzani, hugs with PKK.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0090par0313	There's no PKK there, there's Barzani at the meeting in Diyarbakir. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0314	Therefore, so does the citizen. So let the citizen write, and the scale of the citizen is the best scale, and let the citizen write, let the AKP write, and let the Sinan Okan write, and he will see what comes out.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0091par0315	So why haven't you accepted a citizen's scale in ten years? The citizen's scales have weighed the EC PARTY for ten years.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0316	A citizen's scales are the best. If you're so confident...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0091par0317	Haven't you seen this for ten years, citizen? You don't believe in citizens either?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0086par0318	...if we have nothing to do with corruption, smuggling. You say, bring the Court reports. Why did you censor court reports? Why are you censoring me? If you're not afraid, bring the Court reports!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0092par0320	Sir, have them bring the Court reports.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0093par0321	Mr. President, are you going to keep robbing just because the citizen is voting?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0094par0322	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of the European Union Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Accreditation Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2012 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2014 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Final Account for 2012 We're moving on to the government's speeches. Minister of Culture and Tourism Omar Çelik. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0095par0359	Honourable President, honorable MPs, I salute you all. As we talk about the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, I especially thank you for the sensitivity of all our friends in general about cultural issues and the preservation and development of Turkey's tourist values. Of course, the basis of the republic is culture, as Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said. Culture, of course, is not only the republic's protection, nor is the republic's achievements thought to be an essential basis for the transfer of the nation's entire existence from the past to the present, from yesterday to today to tomorrow. I also stated during the budget talks at the Commission meeting: the heads of the nations sometimes go through bitter experiences, sometimes there are victories, sometimes there are defeats, but what keeps the nation going is the culture that is the name of its existential code. In many stages of history, a nation's army may be defeated, its territory may be lost, its industry may be destroyed, its economy may be destroyed, but the nations that sustain its existence and existence in history are nations that have the high will to perceive culture as an existential code and pass it on to future generations. In fact, in history, hundreds of years, two hundred years, three hundred years, some of the states that have lived much longer today are called very short in the history books, in political history books, for example, as I mentioned earlier -- how a state of culture that has lived for several decades is a brand of culture. Normally, because it has a few decades of life, the Çağatay state should not have had a large and weighty place in both the history of politics and social history, but we can't go past talking about political history in other areas of history when we're talking about it today.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0096par0362	Çazatay is the Turkish state, isn't it, Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0095par0363	But why is it so important to have a state whose life span is not more than thirty years in total? The reason is that it is his contribution to the history of the world that makes the state strong. In terms of the history of the world, Ali Shir Nevai is an indispensable thinker. You can't talk about the history of thought without mentioning Ali Shir Nevaî. Because Ali Shir Nevaî wrote his works in Çazatai, Ali Shir Nevaî's high intellectual level has carved the Turkish language of Çağatay into the history of the world, and the existence of Çağatay has made the state of Çağatay an indispensable element despite the short life of political history. Thus, a single conquistador, and a language used by that tyrant, has made the state very short-lived, and has not had significant success in that short life, but has made history an indispensable element. In fact, those who read World War II well know the history of World War I, the history of World War I, and today, in most of the states referred to as cultural states around the world, the first orders were given not to armies but to cultural institutions as soon as the war began, but to protect the national library. When the great wars began today, the great cultural states of the world first showed everyone what it was to sustain their own existence by protecting their own national libraries, their great museums underground. As a matter of fact, the fact that we have a culture geography that goes beyond our political geography, which goes beyond the limits of our political geography, shows the size of our state, the depth of our nation. From the monuments of Bilge Khagan and Tonyukuk in Mongolia to Mostar Bridge, from the Library of Timbuktu Writings in Mali. From the Balkans to the Rose Baba Turbage in the Balkans, all of this existential geography, as well as our cultural presence in many parts of the world, as well as our martyrdoms, to many of our martyrdoms, to our martyrdoms, to the many martyrdoms on the fronts of the Galicianian Front. As a matter of fact, the presence of this geography, the presence of this great cultural geography, today politically and economically, has played a very important role in Turkey's interference in certain events in both its region and beyond its region, in its integration with the peoples there, in its integration with them. So this is how we define the general policy perspective of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Republic of Turkey. We consider the existence of all identities in our country, not only the existence of concrete cultural heritage, but the existence of all identities, the abstract cultural heritage of Anatolia, Mesopotamia, the Black Sea, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, the Balkans, Turkey, the entire achievements of being an Islamic and European country, as the Ministry of Culture, the national heritage of this country. Therefore, there should be no distinction between cultures or ideological preferences regarding the preservation of cultural heritage. If that distinction is considered, we will not only have a political flaw, but we will have done wrong to damage the codes of our nation's existence from yesterday to today and from today to the future. Therefore, I want to make it very clear that the entire cultural heritage of Asia Minor is the basis of its policy, to be the target of its policy for the development of the Ministry of Culture, of all the identities that exist in Anatolia, of all the cultural identities that exist from the past, of all the ethnic identities, of all the religious identities. Here, cultural discrimination or looking at culture with an ideological oligarchy approach means making concessions from our own gains. In this context, it needs to be made clear: Turkey must sign much higher productions in culture and art, so that it may not progress better from here on out -- I will proceed by answering the questions of our friends from here. There is no debate about the value of our artists, who have worked so far to sign these high productions, who will then work. In the early years of the Republic, the support of cultural and art institutions shows the great vision of those who founded the republic. At the point where we're here today, it's indispensable for the future of this country to be further developed, even larger. For that reason, cultural arts institutions are being shut down. What we're talking about is the restructuring of the state-art relationship in Turkey, the modernisation of the state-art production relationship. You have to admit that a culture where an artist is an officer and the state has a financial power in the arts is in no way pluralistic and liberal. Culture and art are the areas that ultimately promote itself with competition and survive with competition and walk into the future with competition. No ideological, oligarchical approach in this area should be included in any ideological priority. This area is not a staffing area. The political production of names in this field would be the greatest damage to this country. It is necessary to accept that according to many reforms that Turkey has done and produced at its destination today, the cultural arts area has been barren and the state-art production relationship needs to be restructured. This should be open to competition, to a point where it will compete with higher artistic performances and cultural activities that are universal. Look, there's been a lot of criticism. I'm going to read you a few things about the evaluation criteria of a major culture state within the European Union from their own text. For example, the evaluation of institutions and institutions in culture art, the measurements of this: innovation in the art sector, access to large audiences, quality service in the relevant arts, financial competence and sustainability, efficient management structure, assessment of artistic infrastructure, presentation capacity for different cultures and communities, support of amateurs and emerging artists, geographical prevalence, appropriate reporting. Now, the relationship we have with the state-cultural arts institution, in no way, today, as a culture state, does not fit the models that are active in the world. Even in the Soviet Union, our relationship is an abandoned model in 1995. What we're talking about is opening cultural space to young people in a more pluralistic and liberal way. Look, it's been expressed here, too, that one way or another, the theatre's funding is being cut off. It's completely false information. In Anatolia, support for young theatres, theatres without support, and arts institutions have been increased by 80 percent this year. This is not an ideological area. When you support an institution, you support it for four or five years, you expect audience support, you expect it to stand on its own. If that doesn't happen, you have to give new people, young people a chance to open their way. There's been a lot of news in the press about the National Library. The National Library is the fortress of national culture, the memory of national culture. It's not just the Ministry of Culture's job to protect the National Library, it's the responsibility of an entire nation, it's the responsibility of an entire House. I say here in the presence of the great Assembly that I am ready to do my part with the greatest responsibility, that I will continue it, that I will be fully committed to the inventory of non-invented artifacts, to the protection of unguarded artifacts, but when I have removed the bureaucrats who neglected to do so, then my friends will come out here and relieve the experienced bureaucrats of their duties. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the contrary, because I have seen the memory of the national library, I am deeply interested in restructuring there, and I invite all of you, the MPs, to see the old place, to monitor the new version of it, to monitor what we've done -- and to monitor us often by visiting the National Library. This is the matter of ideological choice with the arts institutions, as I said, it's not on our agenda, but it needs to be known that you have to make a measurement when you use a public resource, and you can say that any measure set is relatable. Every institution that uses public money has to pay attention to its general moral code. I'm speaking as if everyone knows the difference between common morality and morality -- I'm not going to go into moral philosophy now, nor am I going to make the difference between ethics and morality -- by paying attention to the moral criteria. If you put other measures in front of this, there will be other criticisms for them. This isn't the first time it's been put in this year, and it's not special to the theater. This is the criteria for copyright, this is the criteria for cinema. Any politician who uses public money -- let me be here, let me be here -- who is responsible for the nation -- has to answer to the public about how these resources are being used. Ha, other than that, someone wants to play a game, prefers a field outside of that, which, of course, is his discretion, he will play here, but when the public resource is being used here, a measure like no criteria can be accepted in any way, and that's not true at all. In many of the regulations that are in effect -- and in other areas -- and in cultural arts regulations -- are clearly available. He referred to very important restorations and today's work. I will send him information on those issues one by one, but it is important that at the point of the solution process, there is a great interest in Southeast Anatolia and East Anatolia. We're specifically talking to tour operators, and we're developing a special perspective on increasing foreign tourist visits, increasing investments facing here. In this context, we are particularly interested in projects such as the Firat Basin of Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Zone, the Lake North Van Seljucian Tourism Center, the East Black Sea Project, the Group Valley Project. To turn here, of course, public resources are limited, but recently when we spoke to a person in charge, I asked him how much they needed for restoration in England today, and he was told that only royal buildings require £50 million. I mean, it's not enough anywhere in the world. Like Turkey, in a country with a basin of civilizations such as Anatolian, any resources that will be divided here will undoubtedly be inadequate. Our friends have something to say here about castles, about other areas. About those issues, about castles and other areas, it's not a general restoration project, but we're trying to approach them with a perspective that each of them is evaluated within its own criteria. In the coming period, it will be very important to protect them as cultural beings, but beyond its protection as cultural beings, to open these places to tourism, to increase human diplomacy, to promote and appreciate cultural beings to the world. There's one thing we've noticed as Ministry, which is that there's also a huge interest in investing in East and Southeast Anatolia after this solution process. There's one thing, and I didn't want to get into it, but unfortunately, a couple of our congressman friends have been saying that for months. I really didn't want to put this on the agenda, but now I feel like I have to take it here for the record. For example, I've been building my own office in the Second House, and I've been using a lot of office rooms. My dear friends, I'd like to report to the High Council that I'm using whatever offices the ministers before me use, but on the contrary, I've done a procedure to preserve our cultural presence, and it's the opposite of that. Moreover, this was the subject of the question motions, which was expressed on this stand. In 1923, you know, the building we know as the Second Assembly building was built by architect Vedat Tek, used as the second Turkish Grand National Assembly between 1924 and 1960. Later, it was used as a CENTO building. It was transferred to the Ministry of Culture after the removal of CENTO. When I was a minister, I went around all the institutions, and they showed me, here's the study of Ataturk, and here's the reception room of Ataturk, etc., etc., and there's the box where Ataturk's Assembly opened a door. There's a room across from that box. I said, "What was this place?" They said, "This is where Ataturk would show the Assembly when his guests arrived." I said, "Well, who's using this place now?" I said, "I can't accept the use of any office of office by any bureaucrat or politician at the time." (EC PARTY) This place will be empty, reorganized, and the state elders and foreign visitors will be welcomed here when they visit the Second Assembly. Now, for eight months, I've been there since my Ministry, and I've only given this order. These studies are over, I haven't even had time to go to see the results of the study, but now, unfortunately, three or four of my friends are accusing me of using this place that I saved as my office, and they're making a motion to ask about it. I beg you, my friends, before I accuse you of any information that has been leaked in any way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like you to do a little more digging into these issues. Regarding the cultural issues, I pay tribute to the great Parliament, which is sensitive to the development of Turkey's tourism assets, to all its MPs, and to its success.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0097par0386	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Minister of the European Union, Egemen Donate. Here you go, Mr. Donation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have come before you on behalf of the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the draft of the European Union Ministry's 2014 Central Management Budget Act. I salute you all. Members of parliament, at the very beginning of my statement, under this great roof since its establishment, I thank all lawmakers who have contributed to the process of democratisation of Turkey, the process of transparency, the process of enrichment, the process of reform, the process of the European Union, in its short name, and all of our parliamentarians who have responded to eternity, with blessing and mercy. As we've always stressed, this Parliament is a saintly Assembly reflected in the will of the Turkish nation. This Parliament is a sovereign nation without conditions. It is a great assembly that carries the principle with pride. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, a summary of Turkey with all its colors and wealth, has been the most important driving force behind Turkey's EU process in the past 11 years. The fundamental reforms in the integration process of the European Union are the work of this Assembly. Laws called deadlocks were made by this Parliament, which was disbanded from this House, which was said not to be done. Our House has always held up the EU process. At every opportunity, we express the European Union's path through certain minors, not from any province shown by some politicians, but from here through the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Every issue we discuss in the Turkish Grand National Assembly means that every law passed means that we should distance ourselves from the European Union process. As you know, this year we have left the 50th year of the Treaty of Ankara, which officially launched Turkey's integration process with the EU. Unfortunately, Turkey has been exposed to double standards that have never been applied to any country by the EU, and no country's accession process has lasted as long as Turkey's. Children born on the day of the signing of the Treaty of Ankara are 50 years old today. However, in many difficult times, the EU has been Turkey's compass, offering our country an important perspective of democratisation. As a government, we've always come close to the European Union process with this sensitivity, and with that understanding, we've brought our country closer to the European Union standards every day. Without a doubt, today, in Turkey, Europe's most reformist government is at work. Some opposition spokesman here said we won't get anywhere in the EU's process until we get rid of the AK PARTY. They forget that the EC PARTY has never failed in its EU bid. However, the EC PARTY EU process was fundamentally different from the process of 200 years of modernisation. The process of 200 years was often a process, despite the nation, and the EU process was a process that lifted barriers to the public that allowed the nation to implement its dynamics. The result of the so-called modernisation process was a democracy of concessions based on custody, but the EU process, which began under our government's leadership, destroyed these wards and led to a transition to a real participating democracy. Again, I am proud to say that in Europe, the most intensive and most reformative parliament in Europe is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Since our party came to power in 2002, under this roof, 320 primary, about 1,600 ▪ the secondary arrangement has been enforced. Today, Turkey is ahead of many EU members with its huge investments in democracy, political stability, justice, transport, health, RD, agriculture, public housing, education, and many other areas.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0099par0398	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0399	Since the economic crisis, 6 million people have been unemployed in Europe, while Turkey has created new jobs for 5 million people at the same time. The fastest growing economy in Europe has been our economy. As these achievements continue in 2013, as in the past 11 years, Turkey's reformist identity has again come forward and we have witnessed significant developments in Turkey-EU relations. The EU Commission's 2013 Progress Report, published on October 16th, has given Turkey its dues, underlined the government's commitment to reforms, and our Constitutional Commission Chairman Professor Burhan Lamb has made a highly critical statement this year. Despite some missing or wrong points in its contents, the report has been a major step towards the capture of a positive atmosphere in Turkey-EU relations in its objective and constructive tone.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0100par0401	Why don't you rewrite it?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0402	The process of judicial reform has been praised in the report on many issues, from the package of democratisation to different groups of beliefs to dialogue. In addition, the commission has admitted in the report that the obstruction of the negotiation process was not due to Turkey's technical shortcomings, but rather because of some member states' political stances in the process. This is the transformation of a mindset that is very important and needs to be highlighted. For the first time, the Commission has referred to the responsibility of member states due to the obstruction of Turkey's negotiation process, in such a sincere and clear statement. In addition, the best way to fully use the potential of Turkey-EU relations is to accelerate negotiations, which is said to be possible within the framework of a reliable live negotiation process. As a result of all our efforts, EU Commission officials have no longer remained silent in the face of injustices that we have underlined on each platform for years, and have called for special calls on chapters 23 and 24th, as soon as their opening criteria are passed to Turkey. The decisive policies we followed this year in the reform process have not only reflected in the progress report, but have also given us a new momentum in the negotiation process, and we have all witnessed the opening of chapter 22 of this chapter, the opening of regional policies. This chapter, you remember, was a chapter in the past that was blocked by France under Sarkozy's rule, but it was also opened by the decisive decisions of our government, by the removal of the new administration of Hollande's administration. Dear lawmakers have also claimed that some lawmakers have used street diplomacy in Turkey's EU process and have given harsh responses to the rhetoric against Turkey. Of course, some European officials are showing that we are on the right track, especially if they are complaining to our opposition party, our main opposition party, regarding our style. (AK PARTY) Because it is our duty to give the answer to those who insult our nation's values, to those who insult it, to those who despise it, to those who despise it, to those who scratch their own nation in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0101par0407	Why did you give it to me? You're a hero now?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0408	I have not been able to tolerate those who insult the values of my people, there are those who may be, and I observe them, but it is my duty to answer to those who come to Turkey with the right words, criticism, or debate, by treating their men according to the duty my people have given me, but it is my duty to answer to those who come to them with insults, the same language that he understands. So, as a result of our efforts, 2013 is the year of a truly historic coronation of visas. Look, the visa that many EU member states have applied to our citizens is, in fact, one of the biggest stakes the 1980 coup has inflicted on this nation. In the wake of the 1980 coup -- God rest his soul -- through the Treaty of Ankara of 1963 signed by the late Inönun, we have been working for thirty years to correct the wrong, twisted mentality of the couptarian mindset, which allowed Turkey's young seedlings to be granted visas so that they could not go to Europe as refugees. And thankfully, as a result, the European Union has now taken the necessary steps to begin visa exemption negotiations with Turkey with the awareness of Turkey's rising power.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0101par0410	They asked for an appointment! Did he ask you for an appointment with the European Union you insulted?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0411	Member states have authorized the European Union Commission. On the 16th of the month, Monday morning, our Prime Minister will announce the details of this matter to our people. Of course, the architect of this success is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister, who no doubt follows every step of the process himself and instructs us to stand upright without notice. But I'd like to congratulate all of our labored institutions, institutions, representatives of our business world here, especially from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. Of course, visa exemption is not a blessing granted to citizens of the Republic of Turkey. This is Turkey's right to both the European Union and human law. The process of visa exemption between the European Union and Turkey also means the right to hand over. Dear MPs, I especially want to stress here: Mr. opposition speakers, why are we still determined about the EU and not to form a Turkish world union? They have brought criticisms, such as these criticisms, and they mentioned Mr. Atambayev, the President of the Turkish world, especially one of the respected leaders. I would like to bring to the attention of the members of parliament: For the first time, a leader, a head of state, Mr. Atambayev calls a politician of the Republic of Turkey, a statesman. This is Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey and President of the Republic of Turkey. This is one of the most important indicators of Turkey's relations with the Turkish world on its own. Look, about relations with the Turkish world that the previous authorities neglected...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0102par0417	Then change the name of the Ministry, Mr. Minister. Be a minister of the Turkish world. Then do as you're told.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0418	...the historical monuments, known as the beginning of our history, where the Orhun Abides of Mongolia today were located, in the open, without any protection, in a place where only the jeeps could go to the safari, where a few moments later, our minister, Hayati Yazri, opened a museum in which he himself was assured to be able to go to that museum, were made possible by the Turkish Republic of Turkey through TİKA. We've always taken care of our own history, of our own people, of our own roots, and we're going to keep going.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0103par0419	There are still no roads in the villages of Şanlıurfa. First, make the roads in the country.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0102par0420	Don't do that because the European Union wants it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0098par0421	But for us, the European Union process is also a process of democratization, a process of transparency, a process of deletion of deep state mentality from this country. For him, we will continue to carry out the same effort with the same determination. Here, in this framework, the financial resources provided by the European Union to our country are also very important. We bring about five times the amount of the budget that you will give us today, with your approval, to our country every year as an EU grant. With these grants today, solid waste removal, water treatment facilities are being built in 35 districts of Turkey. This year, 70,000 of our citizens -- from the first school student to the adult profession -- will be educated in Europe with EU funds. Last year, there were 61,000 of them. So far, 370,000 of our citizens have been educated in Europe with these funds. This year alone, there were 22,000 students who benefited from Erasmus. This is an indication of what important achievements Turkey has achieved in education. Look, our National Agency, which was founded ten years ago, has become the third largest national agency for student volume in Europe in 33 different countries today. This is the best indication of Turkey's success. Members of parliament, again, our Turkish Accreditation Agency, which is based on our ministry, is also doing really important functions. The fact that 849 adaptive evaluation agencies have so far is an indication of how strategic this institution is. And since its establishment in 2002, Turkak has been a full member of the European Accreditation Union, the International Laboratory Accreditation Association, and has also been a member of organizations worldwide, including the International Accreditation Forum, and has signed bilateral, multilateral recognition agreements. Thus, the Akreditation service provided by Turkish Cypriots has been internationally recognised, and the documents and reports of Akredity organizations have been accepted by the entity countries as valid. Deliberate MPs, TÜRKEK has been doing very important work on halal accordion since this year, and on 25-26 October 2013, the International Health Accreditation Forum 2013 was held in Istanbul (IHAF). That's why I care so much about this: today, 82 per cent of the world's healed product trade, unfortunately, is in the hands of non-Islamic Conference countries. We, not only Turkey, but all of the Islamic Conference Organization, have a common decoration on this subject, and we are also doing a fevered study so that the countries can benefit as much from this economic cake as possible. Members of parliament, as the Ministry of the European Union, we will continue our work in harmony and co-ordination with all our ministries in the EU process, which our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan described as the most important modernisation project since the republic's declaration. On its own, the Ministry of the European Union, the seal of our government's commitment to the European Union, is an important piece that Turkey has brought to its journey of forward democracy. Since its establishment, the Ministry of the European Union has carried out its work with Turkey's understanding of the reform kitchen, and will continue to work the same way from now on. We hope that our decisive efforts in the EU will now begin to see what they deserve in the coming period, further damage to Turkey-EU co-operation, delaying further, preventing the destruction of significant opportunities. The European Union project is not a process to be exploited by daily debates that will fit into a continent. The European Union is today the most comprehensive peace project in human history. When you look at the history of EU member states, we see that nations that have fought against each other for centuries today can live together peacefully under the EU roof. So, this is the most comprehensive peace project in human history, and unless Turkey is a member, it is doomed to remain a continental project. Turkey's EU accession is a process that will globalise that continental peace project. Therefore, despite all these obstacles, despite all double standards, we must together present Turkey's EU process, the most comprehensive peace project of humanity's globalisation process to humanity by disseminating the reform laws that together will raise the standards of our citizens' lives with his power. Turkey is a crucial opportunity for the European Union to crack its shell. A European Union without Turkey is lacking and condemned to be poor. Of course, Turkey can move on without an EU member, and of course the European Union can move on, despite its shortcomings without Turkey, but the Turkish-EU relationship is a win-win relationship. The European Union also has significant achievements in Turkey, and the Republic of Turkey's achievements in the European Union are important, as they have been so far on its way to the European Union. So we thank you all for your sensitivity to the budget of the European Union, which is a symbol of Turkey's commitment to democratisation, its commitment to transparency, its commitment to enrichment, and its commitment to rise above the modern level of civilisations that Ataturk has targeted. I want to thank you all for the well-being of our budget, our country, our democracy, the European Union and humanity.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0104par0434	Thank you, Mr. Donation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0105par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0104par0436	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0105par0437	Mr. President, Mr. Minister said: Turkish citizens will be granted visa-free access to Europe. But, of course, against that, Turkey is signing its re-enactment agreement. In the context of this extradition agreement, this is signed in exchange for the return of illegal immigrants to Turkey and the storage of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0106par0438	He'll ask questions, Mr. President. You ask questions, you get answers.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0105par0440	He doesn't care about that. Of course, he never actually stated the damage he would do to Turkey from this visa-free point of view. For example, we will recognize the Greek Cypriot state as well as that part, which has not explained its concerns. I'd ask him to tell me that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0107par0442	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0108par0443	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, the congressman has been misinformed.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0107par0444	Mr. Secretary, that goes to the QA, so let's take that as a question. So if you'll please take your seat...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0108par0445	It's the President of Appreciation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0107par0447	Thank you. Minister of Customs and Trade Hayati Printer... Here you go, Mr. Printer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0452	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the grand jury. Of course, at the very beginning of my speech, I'd like to share with you a reference from Mr. Donan. In the first year of my ministry, really one of the most original pages in my life was to open the Karakorum monuments. It was October 8, 2008, if I'm not mistaken. Our Prime Minister and I were in Turkmenistan to hold a High-level Strategic Co-operation meeting. We had a terrorist raid on a police station in Turkey, seven or eight of our soldiers were martyred, so our Prime Minister returned to his homeland, and that mission fell to me. We went to Afghanistan. For the first time in my life, I went down into the field on a plane with propellers from Batur.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0110par0454	Where is he, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0455	Karakorum, Afghanistan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0111par0456	In Mongolia.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0112par0457	In Mongolia.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0458	Sorry, Mongolia. The distance from where we landed from the plane to the site of the Skyturk monuments is 46 kilometers, and again, as the Minister reminded, TİKA has built this road, covered it with asphalt. The view where we're going is really flattering. Those artifacts of historical importance, of the great heritage of the world's history, were removed from the underworld, created a museum for them to be exhibited. It was made by Turkey, made by the Republic government, considered and carried out by the AK PARTY government. We opened there with our friends. Mr. Shandır was also in the delegation, and he was very happy, and we were with Minister Said Yazbioğlu. On this occasion, I'd like to thank my dear Minister for making this reminder to my friend. I'd like to express my satisfaction in the negotiations held here. Our fellow speakers at least expressed their thoughts, their looks. They also used their rights to criticize, of course. Oh, critiques are right, wrong, I'll get into them. But in expressing them, it means that our friends are able to do so without using offensive, humiliating words. I mean, in that sense, I usually thank my friends. And I will answer the criticism, especially in the conclusion of my discussion of the issues expressed in accordance with the Court's report, in the end of my ministry's activities, in the planning of time. Dear lawmakers, the size of countries is measured in its economic performance. The greater the economy of a country, the stronger the power of that country. Its reflection on society is measured by the effective, widespread implementation of social policies. From this point of view, Turkey is the 16th largest economy in the world, the 6th largest economy in Europe. The economy's foreign trade data, of course, is extremely important, and Turkey's foreign trade volume in 2012 is $389 billion. And as of this year, as of today, our exports are 144 billion dollars, our imports are $237 billion, over the past year. Let me put it this way: where does all these numbers, $389 billion in foreign trade take place? Customs doors, customs. This is the Ministry of Customs and Commerce, the public institution that delivers and manages these doors. We carry out such an important mission with our friends in the Ministry. We've summarized our work in two words. Our goal is to make Turkey the easiest country to trade in. Of course, it's not enough, but it's also a country where trade is made the safest. We continue all of our projects, our work, at the center of these two key words. Customs are extremely important, no need to stress the importance of this, but I'd like to give you a few examples. Precious lawmakers, according to OECD, make up about 15 per cent of the costs in the world's trade customs transactions, and at this rate, a 15 per cent reduction in the proportion of one per cent would contribute about 40 billion dollars in the volume of the world's trade, said OECD. Gene, according to the World Bank, a 10% reduction in export costs in one country leads to a 4.7 per cent increase in the country's total exports. So, as the Ministry of Customs and Trade, we continue to work on such important goals, and we develop projects, and we continue these projects at the point of facilitating the commercial activity of the merchant man. The Ministry of Customs and Trade carried out all of these activities through 16 customs and trade regional directorates, 155 customs directorates, 9 customs protection smuggling and intelligence directors, 23 liquidation management agencies, 6 labs and 81 districts. As we look at our human resource right now, 14.756 personnel are employed, and 85 per cent of these personnel are licensed and undergraduate. Let me stress something else: a few years ago, our human resources were extremely inadequate. Since then, we have significantly adjusted our human resources with the ranks we have received from the High Assembly, and 43 percent of our human resources are now under the age of 30. We continue our work with such a young, dynamic staff. Dear lawmakers, in customs, we have implemented and implemented important projects to ensure truly effective and efficient results of services. In this case, we've established the status of the confirmed person. So we've made it easier to pass through customs when we're actually taking into account the statement of the merchant man, by referring to his previous life, and so on, in the multi-series customs with the status of 1,700 approved individuals, he's been working very quickly, effectively. We've moved this up one more stage this year, and we're moving on to authorized liability status. It's a procedure that allows entrepreneurs to perform customs activities in their factories, workshops, antrepos, in order to cover authorized status transactions such as customs and permitting mechanisms in place, and in this procedure, the contractors who have been authorized to perform their duty status under this procedure -- and will deliver their orders to the airport day and night without telling them to take the weekend vacation, without calling it holiday vacation, to complete their preparations at the antrepossessession, and to deliver the shipment to the black gate, the airway to the airport. As of 2013, I'd like to share with you the transactions of customs. As of January-November 2013, 5 million, 10,809 declarations have been processed and the rate of taxes collected by the Ministry of Customs and Trade due to foreign trade activities is 28 per cent, and the tax collection collected in the first ten months of 2013 has exceeded 50 billion euros. I said, "We've activated new applications." One of them is an electronic summary statement application. And we've put that in motion since the beginning of 2012. Another project, which we have put into effect on 1 January 2012, is the current joint Transit Regime. Valuable lawmakers, joint transit implementation is an application that means Turkey to become a member of the European Union in terms of transport, which is why Turkish carriers' annual earnings -- $270m -- will increase more and more. We've activated the Translative Electronic Prelabelment System. We have launched the Fast Switch Line practice in Kapakule, a pilot, in order to minimize the waiting time of a merchant man at the customs gates. We continue with other projects to address the difficulties of customs, to eliminate them. We continue our work on our project quickly and with a shared understanding. Once we've done this project, the foreign trader won't have to go around different public institutions and institutions. At some point in internal customs, the results of public institutions and pennies related to conveying their documents are completed in the same electronic environment, allowing them to return to the same point. Our work on the subject continues to be intense. We'll start piloting at Kapakule, hopefully, in our study of the Single Stop. You see the doors, there's passport control somewhere, there's a statement register somewhere, there's a test process somewhere, etcetera. At some point, we continue to work to ensure that these services are carried out from one point. We've done this, where have we come from the work we've done? We've significantly shortened the processing time. Indeed, beyond what should be in customs, for example, the waiting for one more than what should be, will increase costs by 1. So it's clear how much less processing will contribute. From this point of view, 61 percent of export transactions are completed in our customs in just one minute. The average processing period was over 10 hours in 2002, and in the first 11 months of 2013, the period was reduced to 3 hours and 57 minutes, so we've made such a improvement. When we look at customs services in terms of multilateral relations, we have signed and implemented administrative aid agreements with 61 countries. The Kervansaray Project and I continue these works under the leadership of Turkey in 2008, as part of the joint implementation of customs administrations along the Silk Road route. We've upgraded the labs required in customs in terms of quality of service. We've got six labs, two of them internationally-acred labs. We're in a highly effective fight in smuggling. Now, while our dear friends were exploring the budget of our Ministry, Turkey's illegal paradise, like everything else, used words that couldn't be measured, non-responsive. But, dear friends, you have to look at the data. When you look at Turkey's geographical position, geostrategic position, Turkey is a crossroad country, a country on the route of transition. Of course, this feature of Turkey and its surrounding countries are particularly fuel-producing and consuming countries, and Turkey is at a very important crossroads in smuggling. But we're going through a very effective fight, and I really think that all of our public institutions, all of our struggling organizations, are successful together. In all, the monetary value of the products we acquired in the fight against trafficking was 743 million 732 000 TL in 2012. But this year, at the end of November, the total value of the products we obtained from the fight against trafficking is $1 billion,7 million. By the end of November, we have another month. So there's a 35 percent increase in our capture of fugitives compared to last year. In the fight against drugs, when we look at it, Turkey is number 2 in the world's heroin capture. So they're going to say that now some people are going to say that heroin is being produced at the time, but I've brought and explained the reason for my judgment by the geostrategic position of Turkey. So there's drug production in our east, there's a user in our west, a transit country. Thus, Turkey is a country in the European region that captures 94 per cent of heroin caught in 2012. The latest arrest of 717 kilograms of heroin, the largest in customs history and the largest in the single party in our Thracian Border Gate in August 2013. Yeah, my time's gone a long way. I'd like to mention this court report. So our work on domestic trade, trade artists, cooperatives, of course, is not available, but I'd like to mention this court report. Dear lawmakers, the Court is no doubt an important organization. He does financial audits, financial judgments. Who's it for? On behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But if you don't know the process well, you mix everything together. The judge has a work procedure. They've got prosecutors. The auditers' work is not the document of that study, but the Court's report, for once know that. What's called a report, what's called a work note, you have to distinguish it well. That text, which my very dear MP just described as a revolutionary patriot, is such a work note. I'd like to give you an example, one of his criticisms of our Ministry there is the 218th Amendment of the Customs Law. He says that in this article, all tools, machinery, and all the equipment that the Customs Undersecretary needs in the area and in the fields are required. Can you imagine, this law was written in 1999. There's no law like that in a law state. You can't make a private sector, a citizen, a person who's not responsible for the power of the law. This is a chore, directly contrary to the Constitution. He's telling me...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0113par0483	Change it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0114par0484	Change it, change it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0485	We'll change it, we'll change it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0115par0486	Mr. Secretary, you are obliged to enforce this law.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0487	You guys do it!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0116par0488	Then change it. You've been in power for 11 years.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0489	You tell any port operator: you'll get an X-ray 5 million TL. These cost 2.5m euros. Have this picked up by the bride. How are you going to get it? Teach me how to do this, and I'll take it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0117par0490	You are obliged to enforce those laws.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0491	That's what he says in your report. It's a chore, he's incapable of implementing it. So let me give you an example...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0118par0492	Mr. Secretary, when you change, you will enforce that law or change it, so either change it or apply it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0493	We'll change it. Oh, those notes are a way for us to change this stuff, and that's all it's good for, so I'm not saying it's useless. His contribution, which means this substance will be removed, is not practical.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0118par0495	But, right now, you have to apply it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0119par0496	You don't apply that substance, you make it incomplete, you commit crimes. You're missing, you're not following the law.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0109par0497	Dear lawmakers, Turkey is a great country, and our Ministry is doing very important tasks, one of the key public institutions in the 500 billion-dollar foreign trade bid on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of our Republic. In this sense, I salute all who contribute to the implementation of the budget, the implementation, the establishment of it, and the grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0120par0499	Thank you, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0121par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0122par0501	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0120par0502	In the order I promise, sir, one moment. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0123par0504	Mr. President, I'm being bullied, sir. He's transmitting misinformation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0120par0505	I don't know if you're giving false information... Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0124par0511	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the 218th article of the Customs Law was clearly in effect when these tenders were given. Alan, the firm made this offer on purpose. So, sir, we can't get an x-ray device under that law. It's an arm, a favor, a concrete proof of another favour being done on the side. Therefore, the company that received this tender has pledged to operate the customs door in accordance with Article 218, to complete all the shortcomings there. If you don't mind the x-ray device, if you don't mind the computer parts and the infrastructure, you're guilty. The Court's supervisor has caught this one, and the Report Control Board has shaved it. That's the spirit. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0125par0515	Thank you, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0126par0516	Mr. President, there's been a terrible misunderstanding, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0125par0517	Yeah, fix it for two minutes. You can fix it at your place, if you like. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0126par0521	Dear friends, valued lawmakers, for one thing, let's say that the Istanbul airport was auctioned off, bought, operated, without having to identify an operator. If there is no such obligation under his condition, another port was tendered from privatisation. What's the obligation?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0127par0522	It's what the law is.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0128par0523	The law is what it is, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0126par0524	Wait a minute. The presumptions of the tender condition. The one that's not under contract...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0129par0525	Mr. Secretary, you're committing a crime if you don't put it on the condition.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0126par0526	Oh, if you put it in. That's what the law says, you can't, you can't, it's a chore, it's against the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0130par0527	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0131par0529	I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary is confusing freedom of enterprise with chore. He can only call it freedom of entry, which should be in accordance with the law. What do we, as lawmakers, say in our oath under the Constitution, including Mr. Secretary? Isn't that what the 217th Article of the Customs Law commands... that we stick to the law? Will they not then break their oaths? Beyond that, under Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code, conditions cannot be against the law. If he ignored it, it's another form of corruption.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0132par0533	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The point is clear. Yes, Mr. Right, what do you want?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0133par0536	He said nothing was done from the Ottomans to this side. I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0132par0538	Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0133par0541	Thank you, Mr. President. The Justice and Development Party is all told together by its ministers from time to time, especially the Prime Minister, as if nothing had been done except for its ruling. Look, in Mongolia, they said that nothing was done in the Orhun monuments, only in their own time. Minister, when you made the road in Mongolia, how did you get there, where the woods were, was there a road there? Look, there was a road. At the time of our rule, the 57th government, we had revised that road, which had been asphalted in your day.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0134par0544	Please speak to the General Assembly. But remember, in the year of the 57th Government, in 2000 80 people were sent to the monuments of Orhun in 2001, 62 people in 2002 and 68 in Mongolia. There were archaeologists, historians, art historians, people of great value from Gazi University, the University of Konya and the University of Hacettepe. They went there and studied for three months, during the summer, and many statues were removed, including the statue of the golden man. Was there a museum there when you went there? Was there anything that was taken out? All of them were done in 2002, in our time, and we built a museum for lan Batura. We also visited that museum... along with our then President Ahmet Necdet Sezer. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0135par0549	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0134par0550	Mr. Hamzacebi, what is it?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0135par0553	Sir, the two ministers of our government are here. This isn't about them, but I'd like to make a brief statement about a matter of interest to Mr. Minister of National Education. I hope I can make this statement to the Minister of National Education through his own network. Our country will have open school exams in heavy winter conditions and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I've received numerous phone calls and messages from the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. Some of the roads are closed, transportation is in trouble, transportation has become impossible in some places, and in a picture like this, in a climate like this, many of our students do not have the opportunity to take these exams tomorrow. Mr. Minister of National Education, Mr. SEC President, we're offering them a proposal here so that they can look into the matter and find a solution for our students. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0136par0557	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. The government will probably consider it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0137par0559	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0136par0560	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0561	How do you do, sir?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0137par0562	Sir, the Vital Printer just gave me the wrong information. Regarding customs, the Court's supervisor filed a 300 - page report stating corruption, thefts, abuses. Court. This report was downloaded to 10 pages by the Court's Report Control Board.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0563	Mr. President, on what basis do you promise? He's just walking in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0137par0564	Before that report, indeed, the corruption of customs...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0565	Our time is precious. Are you going to promise everyone like that?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0137par0566	...if it's transparent, if there's really no privacy back home, let these reports be explained.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0567	According to what, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0137par0568	Yeah, well, it's hard for you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0569	You have to explain to me what you promise.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0137par0570	Yeah, of course you're having a hard time.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0571	Not everyone can slander like that by walking in here. On what do you promise, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0139par0573	Congressmans, I beg you not to interfere with the administration so much. Just give me a minute, let me get the request.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0574	He's slandering, but he's not making demands. He comes and insults you, you say, Mr. President. That's not possible!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0140par0575	The Court goes to the inspection site, reviews the events, files 300 pages of reports. Court Report Editing Board...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0576	Please take his request, Mr. President, and he'll tell you what his problem is.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0140par0577	This is under the government's command, he's completely deleting that report, sending out a ten-page thin report. He says to the officers...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0578	Mr. President, you can't allow this. You can't just publicly allow insults and slander.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0140par0579	If you don't want to cover this up, let's read the review report.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0141par0580	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0581	You can't publicly allow these things, there's no such procedure, the Civil Code is here, what do you promise by?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0141par0582	Wait a minute, Mr. Lawmakers, why are you arguing? Wait a minute, members of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0138par0583	You can't let it go on, you can't allow slander, you can't allow insults. There's no such thing here, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0142par0584	You're covering up the facts!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0141par0585	Mr. Young, you've already been briefed, you've been told, and you've been briefed. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0142par0587	All right, sir, let's let everyone know. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of the European Union Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Accreditation Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2012 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2014 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0143par0619	Now, in favor of Mersin MP Cigdem Münevver Ökkün. Here you go, Mr. Kökten.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0144par0622	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the budgetary budgetary budgetary budget bill of 2014, including Culture, Tourism; European Union; Customs and Trade Ministry budgets. Precious lawmakers have recently been given a positive climate in Turkey-European Union relations. After a three-and-a-half-year break, the opening of a chapter, the publication of the most objective and balanced progress report in recent years, and ultimately the concrete development of visas has given Turkey-European Union relations a new momentum. We can interpret this as Europe without a visa for Turkey. Under the common road map we agreed on, three or three and a half years later, citizens of the Republic of Turkey will now be able to enter the Schengen area without visas. With the collapse of the visa walls, many prejudices in Europe will be destroyed as well. A country such as Turkey, which has been in partnership with the European Union since 1963, has been a candidate since 1995 and has been conducting accession talks since 2005, and visa implementation of its citizens is contrary to the spirit of European Union integration. While our business people can send their products to European fairs, they face visa barriers. They receive visas, business appointments, or meetings after the deadlines have passed. In order to obtain visas, bureaucratic difficulties also violate the principle of commercial secrecy, which is required to show bank accounts and ask for invitations from partners in the European Union. This practice, which is contrary to the Treaty of Ankara and the Karma Protocol, confirmed by European courts, also leads to unfair competition for the customs union. The visa application is a technical obstacle to the trade, not only to create new business connections for our business people, but to create difficulties in running their current jobs. The situation that affects our commercial and social lives will end with the application of visa exemption. Mr. President, valued MPs have been established in Mersin, Turkey's large commercial volume free zone. Agriculture, trade, industry and tourism also exist in the logistics sector. Movement in the free zone, Port of Mersin and border crossings gives the city economy increased momentum. From 1985 until the end of 2012, the trade volume of the Mersin Free Zone was $43.3 billion in trade volumes. 158 countries and 682 different properties have been traded. This is also an indication of developing and increasing economic stability. In addition to the culture, faith and tourism sector, our city's support of our Prime Minister and the government's investment of 800 billion euros in the EC PARTI made it the centre base of the region for sports tourism. We move as a city of culture and tourism in Mersin province, protecting and preserving our immovable cultural assets. From the ancient town of Kelenderis in the District of Aydıncık, from the ancient city of Longcaburis, from our religious, cultural monuments to Mut Castle, Harbor Castle, Meshgit Castle, from the thousands of years of monuments represented by Danyal His Majesty's tomb, Alahan Monastery, the Roman Bridge, Zeus Temple, Alaaddin Camisi, Laal Pasha Mosque, and Sheikh Omar Turbesi. The development of investment plans in all the provinces of Turkey -- particularly our province of Mersin -- has increased greatly, thanks to the long-term goals, planning and predicting of the EC PARTY governments. On this occasion, I wish our 2014 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I thank those who have worked hard to prepare our budget. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0145par0633	Thank you, Mr. Euthanol. Against Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0146par0637	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Now, unfortunately, I'd like to start today with a statement from our Foreign Minister in Armenia. Our Foreign Minister, who adopted the threat, who said, and came up with a new concept under the name fair memory, I don't think he knew about the 23 riots during World War I, and he doesn't realize that the most important points of passage in this rebellion are being held by the Armenians. The transaction is a decision made only for safety and was made within its own territory. On the other hand, I think he should have remembered 518,000 Muslims who had been massacred by Armenian gangs as he brought up a topic called fair memory. First, I condemn him. Dear lawmakers, culture is extremely important to a society. There is a great corruption in this country today. In this regard, I would like to make a brief statement: Now, interestingly, there is a period in Turkey where missionaries are running around today, and unfortunately there are 25,000 churches all over Turkey. There are, for example, 46 neighborhoods in Goatören alone, but 53 churches have houses. The number of young people registered at the Church of Santa Maria from 2005 to 2006 and claimed to be Christians is more than 12,000, although the number reached 3,000 in Adana. Now, in this case, an interesting situation is happening in Turkey. You know, you can restore historical structures. The historical structures you restore certainly matter to Turkey, but you can't see them differently if you open them, especially in your restorations, even though there are no Christian populations. Furthermore, there is another important issue, which, according to the 1923 Lausanne Agreement, only is in Istanbul, with Gökceada, which should have had a metropolitan presence in 6 districts, but unfortunately during the government period, it was appointed a metropolitan officer to Burma, Kütahya, Isparta (Isparta) and is now inhabited in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to focus on two things, except this. Earlier, at first, a friend of ours, a member of parliament, mentioned that there had been significant developments in the home of Ataturk, in Thessaloniki. And I want to make it very clear that this has nothing to do with our Minister of Culture today, because it was an operation that was carried out before his time. Thus, there are attempts to make a significant adjustment after my talks with him. Now, dear friend, I would like to start with the Ataturk House in Thessaloniki, where the house of the great-grandfather of Ataturk, who was in Biggie, was repaired. It was rebuilt, but it was never built like a Turkish house, which was actually built entirely in the style of the Albanian tower house. We already have the original here, so it has nothing to do with this original. The year they migrated from there is 1830, and Red Hafiz is Ahmet Efendi. ==Early life==Ali Reza was emigrated in 1830, and was born in 1839, after Lord Riza went to Thessaloniki. But, look what it's become of that house. In fact, Ataturk is almost watching video. How about a Turkish house? But that's what Turkish houses were like before. That house over there was like this, and it was wiped out. I beg the Minister, he promised he'd be restored. Imagine that even the bathroom in the bedroom was in the middle of a toilet. Therefore, they must be maintained as the legacy of our culture, otherwise everything will be turned upside down. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0147par0649	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0148par0650	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0147par0651	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0148par0654	Mr. President, I'd like to inform you about the Ataturk House in Thessaloniki, mentioned by Mr. Halaçoglu. I wanted to give you this information in terms of this expression, which will be restored to its original state. I thanked Mr. Halaçoglu when he expressed his sensitivity to this area, but what we call his former condition is not original. Most of the ingredients in it were sent from many parts of Asia Minor, where they were synthetically placed as souvenirs. Let it not be misunderstood, as if all of the items there were original items that Ataturk had been used, and were then removed by the Ministry of Culture. But we felt this need, and we shared it with him: there are videos of the life of Ataturk, and in the house where he lives, there are pictures of what the room means, but there is a shortage of the items he uses. We're going through an ethnographical process of completing that house in the way he uses a few items in each room, but let me put it here that his former state is not an original state. We continue this ethnographic study, and I submit it to the knowledge of the High Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0149par0658	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0150par0659	Mr. President, now, I think my statement has been misunderstood. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0149par0660	Please, you can also make your statement from your position.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0150par0661	Yes, if you could turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0149par0662	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0150par0664	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Minister, there are no original works of Ataturk, which have nothing to do with Ataturk. So it's completely modernized, with all the doors and windows and boards. Now, what's important there is that when Ataturk was born, and he didn't have the stuff he used in it, but he was born in a Turkish house, he was born in a Turkish house. There are examples of him today. Thus, there must be a type of home that can reveal the birth of Ataturk, a time when he was born. You will not find it here, and you will not find whatever you do. Is it better to build an empty, soulless house that has nothing to do with Ataturk, or is it true to suggest that Ataturk was born in such a house when he entered, when people entered, when he visited? So, whatever you put in there, otherwise you can't keep this house alive, you leave it soulless.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0151par0667	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0150par0668	My request is that a home type be made the way it was then. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0151par0670	Thank you; we understand. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of the European Union Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Accreditation Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2012 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2014 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Final Account for 2012 The talks in the fifth round are complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. You know, 20 minutes to QA. We'll give ten minutes of the 20 minutes to our deputies as a minute; then they'll answer as the government sees fit. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0152par0705	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the Minister of Customs and Trade has confessed not to the provisions of the Customs Law, he has committed a crime, I will ask all my questions to the Lord Bagman. Now, my first question to Egemen Bagman is: Are you the AKP vice president or are you the Minister of the Republic of Turkey? If you are Minister, how will you assess leaving Ankara's EU Economic Karma Commission and joining the AKP's show? Otherwise, I think you should leave the Ministry. My second question: did the European Union request an appointment with you on the removal of EU visas? My third question: in your ministry, how many countries have you removed visas from the European Union and non-European Union? My fourth question: What progress have you made in dual citizenship during the period of your government in Austria and Germany? The two citizenships of all countries in the world are accepted, while Turkish dual citizenship is not accepted. What did you do about it?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0153par0711	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0154par0713	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask all three ministers separately, so that the equality doesn't break. Glory is the basin of civilizations. There are no signs in Şanlıurfa, where historical sites are located. In Şanlıurfa, there are no toilets, no drinking water, where historical sites are found. When are you going to do that? I've always asked, but I haven't been able to get a positive answer in three years of parliamentary time. Question two, to the Ministry of Customs and Trade: Isn't foreign travel fees, stamps an obstacle to this freedom of travel, do you intend to remove it, do other countries display similar practices? My third question is: how much grant funds have been transferred from the European Union to our country in 2013, how much have been used for projects, how much do grant funds remain in the Ministry budget, or is the grant fund transferred directly to the ministry that will implement the project?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0155par0717	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0156par0719	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Çelik is: he's a Adana MP. Adana has two counties with a beach to the sea; one is Karataş, one is the ovaries. Neither of them could search Antalya nor the Aegean coast for the beautiful sea, beautiful beach, beautiful beach, but could not be opened to tourism. That's because the road between Ceyhan and Eggs was not finished in terms of transport, and the number of star hotels there was not increased, and there was a very valuable historical artifact, the restoration of the ovarian castle, which had not been done. Mr. Secretary, do you have a project for both of these counties to open to tourism, to make it a tourist paradise? Is there any effort to end this path as soon as possible between Ceyhan and Eggs? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0157par0723	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0158par0725	Thank you. Mr. Minister Çelik, the maintenance costs of registered historical homes are provided by the owners, and the response to applications made to your Ministry for repairs and permits is taking a very long time. This causes a variety of problems for our citizens who use the structure. The 2013 Evaluation Report has the potential to create a risk for cultural and historical heritage of some urban renovation projects in progress. Civil society is not always involved in decision-making processes, and there is a lack of transparency and public consultation. How do you feel about that? In an article published in the New York Times on June 24, 2013, there is a comment claiming that Turkey has been separated from the EU process and is no longer interested in the process. This article states that you wrote a letter in response. What did you say in summary in your answer? Minister Yazıya: What are the biggest problems of the Turks living in Europe, Turkey, Serbia, Bulgaria, Greece, at the border crossings, especially in August? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0159par0730	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Hawk... no. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0160par0733	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bagis. When the Reception Agreement comes into effect, the automatic extradition of third-country citizens to Turkey, who have illegally entered EU countries via Turkey, will be on the agenda. Turkey, most of the time, will not be able to send these illegal immigrants to the countries they came from. What kind of work are you doing on this? Will you be able to meet the terms of this agreement? My second question, Mr. Customs Minister, is that Mr. Kazim Kurt, our Eskişehir MP, has just released documents of corruption related to the X-ray system. If such corruption had occurred in European Union member states, the minister would resign on the same day and at the same time, and Japan would commit harakiri. We don't want you to commit harakiri, but do you intend to resign? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0161par0737	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0162par0739	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, the cost of the project at Sarp Border Gate is 40 million, the cost of the x-ray devices is estimated at 5 million, which is about 13 percent of the contract price, and it's not delivered. Do you have any guesses about the fugitive who wasn't caught because of the device that didn't work here because it wasn't delivered? Is it possible that this wasn't put there specifically for smuggling?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0161par0741	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0163par0743	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Minister Çelike: The district of Bursa Mudanya carries the findings of the ancient city of Myrleia. This area has been established and is being built by a private company to build a mall. Has your ministry done any reviews, evaluations in the region of progress so far? What are the consequences? As Minister of Culture and Tourism, will you have an attempt to prevent a mall from being built by pouring concrete over our historical value? What are the underlying reasons why the Mudanya district municipality, Regional Directorate for the Protection of Nature and the museum's directorate for the construction of the AVM in which the judicial and legal process continues? And finally, as the Minister of Tourism, I'd like this area to be in the cradle of a very rich civilization...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0164par0748	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Batum...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0165par0750	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Çelik, is that during negotiations on the budget of your ministry, you have made it clear that you are preparing a bill to shut down the State Opera and State Theatres General Directorship. And you said that the institutional structure in question was an archaic model. You know, when you guys say the archaic model, or the custody order, or something like that, we understand that the takeover, the advocacy, the campaign for political or economic gain begins. Now, I'm curious about your legal, political, historical reasons and the international models you're based on. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0166par0753	Thank you, Mr. Batum. Dear Ancestor... no. Mr. Tan... no. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0167par0757	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Minister Ömer Çelik Bey: There are many places in Mersin Province that need to be assessed in terms of tourism. Most of them, however, seem to be out of carelessness and carelessness. In particular, is there maintenance and renovations of the ancient city of Anemurium? Where's he at? There's the Cave of the Anamur Corner, Guinea, and it's completely closed to tourism and unable to serve with a fire in 2011. Do you intend to do anything about the repairs, restoration, lighting and interior design of this place? And our biggest problem there is that the nuclear power plant is going to be built in the Great Bay, one of Turkey's most beautiful coves. When the plant is built there, will you come as Minister of Tourism and go to sea there? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0168par0762	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0169par0764	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Vitaly Printer Minister: Has there been a report of irregularity and corruption in your Ministry of the Court? Have these corruptions been removed from the report by the Court's Report Editing Board? Are there any imaginary exports that you've identified in the exports of your power period? How many companies have been investigated for imaginary exports? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0170par0769	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Who's gonna answer first?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0171par0772	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0170par0773	Here you go, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0171par0774	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, do you plan to remove Mr. Tanal (Mr. Tanal)'s extracurricular fees first? The question is: So this could be it. You know, it was higher before, I think it was about 80 dollars, $102 in 2006, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et As I get off the plane, I'm not comfortable with the announcement, so I'm not comfortable with those who don't get tuition from outside the country going here, coming here... I agree. And I'm going to talk to my friend, the Minister of Finance, what's his contribution to the budget, what's the yield, so hopefully we'll formulate something like this. Sir, it's about Mr. Pine's x-ray system: So now, dear friends, it shouldn't be so simple to accuse each other like this. So if you want me to talk about it, you can come over, and I'll tell you in private. I give briefings, that's what I'm saying in private, not in physics, not in monologues. You come in, we tell you, we brief you, you see the details, the size of the subject. So I'm telling you, how do you get that stuff applied, you tell me, how do you get it done? So we're going to hit the head of a free enterprise member, and you're going to take that x-ray? Look, the original side of contracts, they have private law contracts, they have public contracts. You cannot impose any other obligation on individuals, on the sides of the contract, except on the obligations prescribed in the contracts. It's a very basic rule of law, and it's the code of law school. So, I'm looking at it that way. What about Mr. Kurt's X-ray system? Look, my dear friends, there are three countries that produce x-rays once; they produce America, Germany and China. Ha, the contractor here desired that we could build such an expensive product in Turkey. The ones who could do it came out, so it was extended for a period of time, and then it was done with public resources, but the amount of it was reduced from the contract. Is that why the smugglers were tolerated? I don't know what kind of logic that is. Our, look, our support for the right people, of course, will be infinite for Turkey to win. Our tolerance for what's wrong is zero, and we don't have that kind of concern, so don't worry about it. Here, Mr. Dinçer says: "Has your Ministry of Counthitay been reported?" There is no court report on our ministry, there is no Court report in that direction. The inspector has a study, and the inspector's work is not a Court report. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0172par0780	Thank you, Mr. Printer. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0173par0782	Mr. President, thank you. In the questions asked, our MP said there was no need to mark the sites in Şanlıurfa, or in historical places, and I haven't received an answer in three years, can there be a date? Now, if there's a missing sign, or there's a lack of marking, about every place that depends on us, I'm telling you now: it's going to be detected immediately and it's going to be completed within four months. And our congressman will be briefed on that. I'll tell you the time from here, it'll be done in four months, if there's anything missing, where it's up to us. Regarding the protection boards, protection board meetings have been said to have difficulties involving NGOs -- on decisions made here. NGOs can participate in the protection boards as observers. If there's been an obstacle to their participation as observers anywhere, if I'm told this is concrete, I'll do it, but if there's a general expression being used outside of concrete, there's no such thing as not being an observer of NGOs in this general expression. It's been mentioned several times, he's got a problem with chefship. It's tried. When it comes to transparency, the lack of transparency means something else. So instead of using general statements on this subject, I will inform them if they are informed, and if there is a mistake, I will do it immediately. In that sense, there is a problem with forgiveness. There is no need to use a general expression, saying, "There is no misunderstanding behind this. " Asked about Adana. This was completed in 2012, when his plans for the site of the ovaries were set up in 2012, but there was no application. After all, we can't force this appeal; it's the work of free enterprise. Now, there's going to be another plan. In that frame, if there's a demand, there's already been a workshop there to be brought to tourism by our friends -- we're following that process. Again, Karataş has been authorized by the province's private administration to prepare their plans, and the planning process continues. As for construction in Bursa Mudanya: Of course, that construction is a construction that is allowed to preserve historical remains there, but it is already under trial, and the judicial process is currently under way. A question was asked about the ancient city in Mersin. We're thinking of building a museum there, as that question suggests, but there's been a problem with the location. If we cross the locator problem, we're going to build a museum there, or we're going to tear down the existing museum, and we're going to launch a new museum instead. What is the international basis for changing the state's relationship with art - producing institutions? Once again, on the contrary, our current model has no international basis. Only one model similar to this model is applied in China. The question is: The problem is to raise the standards of the production of art of Turkey, of culture production, to open global competition. And here, with a pluralist and liberal model, we need to develop a model outside the model where the artist is an officer. Here, the state holds some operational institutions in its own hands, supporting all the arts we're talking about within these institutions, opening it up to Anatolia, opening it up to more support for projects from outside, but it's not a liberal structure, it's not a pluralist structure, it's not the competition that the cultural arts area needs; it's the basis of our search. Therefore, the expression "off" is not in any way accurate. The question is, what is the international basis for the model we have? We believe that Turkey, which strives to meet international standards in all matters, should also reform in this area and meet international standards. I'll answer the others in writing, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0174par0793	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Here you go, Mr. Donation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0175par0795	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand from the questions of the lawmakers that there is a need for correcting a mistake, especially regarding the Responsibility Agreement. Turkey will by no means have an immigrant warehouse. Unorganized immigrants entering EU countries through Turkey will be accepted into our country, but only if it is accepted that they have passed through our country. After the terms and conditions set out in the agreement will be met, resupply will take place only after Turkey agrees. In the meantime, the deal that we're waiting for to be signed on Monday will begin three years after you lawmakers have approved it here. Members of lawmakers have also made it very clear to the world that Turkey will no longer be a transit country, given that our border security has been improved day after day -- 77,000 people have been arrested trying to cross the borders of our country by illegal means, while the number has been taken into custody due to efforts in 2012 -- has been reduced to 35,000 -- while Turkey has made it very clear to the world that it will no longer be a transit country. With these measures, the number will be even smaller. Turkey will also issue a statement that there is no change in its stance and policy regarding the Greek Cypriot administration during its signing of the agreement. We find that there is a real lack of information about the public debate and the questions that have come in here today. As the ministry, we prepare a question-and-answer brochure to satisfy this gap and answer any questions. As of Monday, we will complete this work and present it to the discretion of our people as well as to the knowledge of our members of lawmakers. One of our deputies asked how much funding was received as a grant from the European Union in 2013. The total fund that will come to our country this year is 902m euros. 204m euros will be used for rural development projects, 91m euros for developing human resources, 366m euros for regional development projects, 238m euros for acceding projects, and 2.1m euros for cross-border cooperation. Studies for these also continue. A congressman of ours asked me about my current titrism. I am the former Vice President of the Justice and Development Party, which I am honored to be a member of, and I am the Minister of the European Union of the Republic of Turkey. I'm the only person on the outside of our Prime Minister who's currently serving on the Council of Ministers of İstanbul MPs. It is my most natural political right to attend the meeting of my city's mayoral candidate to show that I have continued my support for Mr. Kadir Topbaş, who I have supported from day one.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0176par0802	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's a meeting with foreign delegations.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0175par0803	Besides, I have no obligation to attend the KPK meeting. KPK is a parliamentary platform, but so far, I've attended every meeting. I also informed the KPK co-chairs that I would attend that meeting and leave early 15 days in advance. And that morning, I went, I gave my speech, and after I left our Deputy Minister there for my name, I left. ▪ How many countries have you been granted visas? EU member states are not granted visas one by one. There's a lack of information on that, too. Since EU member states have a common visa mechanism, we are still trying to remove it in all 28 countries.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0176par0805	I asked about the ones that didn't exist.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0175par0806	There's a question about dual citizenship. In Germany, your new coalition...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0177par0807	Mr. Donation, our time is up.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0175par0808	I'll be done in a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0177par0809	Finish it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0178par0810	Mr. Secretary, I've asked about the ones that aren't there.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0175par0811	The new German government grants dual citizenship to those born in Germany, and our efforts continue for the rights of other citizens.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0178par0812	You don't give dual citizenship, you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0175par0813	We have sent to the New York Times several times so far, and we have responded to the text mentioned, and it has been published. We will continue to defend Turkey's rights on every platform, no one will doubt it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0179par0814	Thank you, Mr. Donation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0180par0815	Mr. President, the information Mr. Egemen Bagman gave about dual citizenship is now that Germany accepts the dual citizenship of all foreign states except Turkey, which is in Germany. Why? Because those other foreign countries don't disown their citizens, but the state of the Republic of Turkey is doing this: because our Turkish citizens in Germany have disinherited our own autonomous citizen, in the face of necessity, says: "Sister, either get out of Turkish citizenship or enter German citizenship. I don't accept dual citizenship. I mean, our Turkish citizens in Germany are being victimised by this challenge by the Ministry, and in the main law of governments that are for the removal of this victimhood -- Mr. Vitaly Printer Minister -- the state knows very well -- can't leave its own citizen without citizenship, can't leave its own citizen.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0179par0816	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0180par0817	I'm finishing. I'm sorry. If we resist, if we don't dismiss our citizen, the German state will have to accept us as well as the dual citizenship of our Turkish citizens there.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0181par0819	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0182par0820	Read the Civil Charter, please.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0180par0821	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0182par0822	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0183par0823	Mr. President, when our Home Secretary arrives tomorrow, Mr. Tanal may bring this up to himself, but there is a lack of information. All of our descendants, brothers, and citizens born in Germany in the new Coalition Agreement will be granted the right of dual citizenship by Germany.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0184par0824	No, I don't.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0183par0825	But it's not in the European Union's jurisdiction, it's in the Ministry of Interior's jurisdiction. That's where our Home Secretary will give you the answer tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0185par0826	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0186par0827	Mr. President, I'm sorry, look...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0185par0828	Mr. Tanal, point taken.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0186par0829	Look, I'm so sorry, in one sentence...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0185par0830	You've made your correction.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0186par0831	I mean, that means he doesn't know government law.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0185par0832	Mr. Tanal, you've made your correction, Mr. Secretary has made his statement, and the matter is closed.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0186par0833	But it gives you the wrong information.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit02spe0185par0834	Please... copy that. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the fifth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of the European Union will take part in the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) The Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 222.924,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 795,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 223,719.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of the European Union adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of the European Union shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of the European Union Final Account for Central Management 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 188,378,000,00 Budget Expenses 181,213,685,89 Canceled Fund 7,164,314,11 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of the European Union was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.21) TÜRK AKRIDITASYON BUILDING 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 135,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 9.707,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 9.842,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 9.525,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 20.177,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Accreditation Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Foundation for Central Management in 2012 will take part in its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Accreditation Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 11.697.500.00 Budget Expenses 10.130.558.25 Canceled Fund 1.566.941.75 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 19,000,000.00 Net Collection 23.787.146.77 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Accreditation Agency was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2014... Those who don't... Sustained. 21) CULITOR AND TURISM LOOK 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 473,593,700 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 749.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Kaum Order and Security Services 13.603,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 448,360.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,038,463.100 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 1,974.789,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance is 1,881,643,860,89 Budget Expenses 1,613,323,102.03 Funds Expenses 20.25 Cancelled Fund 268,083,827,81 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 231,444,067,84 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet will take part in the 2014 central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.16) THE DEVLET OPERA AND THE BALL OF GOVERNMENT 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18.379.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.955,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 284,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 205,556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 226,174,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.564,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 222,161000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 449.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 226,174,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2012 will take part in the final account of central management: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 192.089.128.01 Budget Expenses 189.944.922.34 Canceled Fund 2,144.205,67 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 178.182,000.00 Net Collection 188,708,508,91 Refuge and Returns 1,760.00 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2012 was adopted as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.15) GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 21.876,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.958,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 162.227,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 187,061.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.917,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 179,061,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 83,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 187.061,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the State Theatre General Directorate of 2012 will be transferred to the chapters of the central management account: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 162.319.805.00 Budget Expenses 158,449,084.22 Canceled Fund 3.870.720,78 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 147,714,000.00 Net Collection 156,424,463,16 Refuge and Returns 3.094.26 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Turkish Writers' budget for central management in 2014, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.53) THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH SUMMER 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.149.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,969.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 15,921,400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 23.040.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 22.835,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 195,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 23.040.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The chairmanship of Turkey's Writers was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers, the central management account of 2012, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 25.204,000.00 Budget Expenses 11.872.142.22 Canceled Fund 13.331.857.78 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 25.204,000.00 Net Collection 14.698.426,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of Turkey's Writing Arts was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has voted to take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 31) GROUP AND TRAVEL LOOK 1) The Ministry of Customs and Trade Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 565.367,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 42,609,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 36,691,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 644.667,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Customs and Trade in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 478.557.538.00 Budget Expenses 444,774.061,36 Cancelled Fund 33.783.476.64 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the competition agency will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.07) RICOBET PRODUCTION 1) Central Management Budget of the Competitive Association [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 32.899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 25.901,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 58,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,015,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 57,785,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 58,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The competition was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Competitive Association's Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 60.297,000.00 Budget Expenses 51.103.025.92 Canceled Fund 9,193,974.08 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 46,670,000.00 Net Collection 40.615.697.80 Ret and Returns 188,289,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Competitive Association was adopted into parts of its central account in 2012. Members of parliament, the Ministry of the European Union, the Ministry of Turkish Accreditation, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, the General Directorate of State Theatres, the Chairman of Turkey's Writers' Association, the Ministry of Customs and Trade and the Central Management budgets of 2012 and the central management account of 2012. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Bill. [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2012 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Borborial Research Institute's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's begin the sixth round of talks. The sixth round includes the Justice Ministry, the Criminal Execution Institutions and the Association for Businesses of Prisons, the Turkish Justice Academy, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the National Bor Research Institute, Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution, Mines Research and Research General Directorate budgets and final accounts. Lawmakers who want to ask questions about the budget can enter the system. Now, I read the names of the MPs who asked for speeches on behalf of the sixth tour groups and individuals: İstanbul MP Murat Başesgioğlu, Erzurum MP Oktay Özturk, Bursa MP Necati Özensoy, Kahmanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu; Batman MP Bengi Yıldız, Van MP Özdal Trier, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici; Bart's MP Yilmaz Tuçç, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashımım, İstanbul MP Bünt Turan, Konya Çanci, Mesci, Mesım Yaşım Yaşlı MP Yusuf Yıldırım, Mehmet Çağtar, Mehmet Çağar, Mehmet Çağar Çağarı MP Mehmet Çağar, Mehmet Çağar Çağaroğlu, Mehmet Çağar Çağarı MP Mehmet Ağar, Mehmet Çağarılı, Aydın MP Ağar Çağarı MP Ağarı MP Ahmet Yıldırım, Mehmet Yıldırım, Aydın Yıldırım, Aydın Yıldırım MP Ahmet Yıldırım MP Ahmet Yıldırım Yıldırım Yıldırım, Aydın Yıldırım, Aydın Yıldırım MP Kemal Yıldırım, Aydın Yıldırım MP Yıldırım MP Yıldırım MP of the MP of the Justice Party MP. On behalf of the individuals, Malatya MP Hussein Cemal Akin is in favour of Bart's MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya and the government. Now, on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group, the first speaker is İstanbul MP Murat Basesgioğlu. Here you go, sir. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0187par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the Justice Department budget of 2014. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation in the name of my people and group. Dear lawmakers, the concept of justice is an important value in both our state and social lives. ▪ Justice is the foundation of property. We have stated that the foundations of our state are built on justice. Our religious faith and cultural heritage, which order us to be just, have enjoined our social tuition by the principles of justice. Throughout our history, social peace and peace have been found in the concept of justice, and our public conscience has been satisfied with justice and has been hurt in injustice. In the international community, justice is an indispensable value. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted years ago when everyone had the right to demand that their case be seen as fair and public by an independent and impartial court. It has often been pronounced among the universal values of legal security, including citizens' trust in legislation, implementation, and consequences in the country. Dear lawmakers, every government of the Republic has made an effort to improve the services of justice. During the last ten years of ministers, there have been infrastructure services, courthouse palaces and physical structures, improvements in human resources, technological developments and intensive law studies. In this area, we thank the judges and prosecutors who distribute justice, especially the ministers, and all the officials who work in the ministry's central and rural community. However, valuable lawmakers, the justice deficit in our country is so large that the problems of the judiciary are so great that it is impossible for the Ministry of Justice to solve such a busy agenda alone. This is exactly the equivalent of political power absorbing the rule of law, independence of the judiciary, and the neutrality of the judiciary. Look, despite over a decade of work, laws, regulations on implementation, the 2010 constitutional amendment, which has claimed that the judiciary will solve its problems, we are unfortunately faced with a very heavy picture, despite the four package of justices that have been issued by putting society on high expectations. Despite the fact that we have established the Compensation Commission and granted the Constitutional Court the right to individual application, we are ranked first among the countries with the most complaints filed against the European Court of Human Rights and again the most violations. There's a lot of work to be done in court. In prisons and prisons, the number of prisoners and prisoners often exceeds their capacity. We are suffering as a society in the use and protection of freedom of expression and thought, meeting, demonstration and march rights. In many cases, which have been closely followed by public opinion, there have been numerous allegations and objections that innocence has been eliminated, that imprisonment has been reduced from a temporary measure, and that imprisonment has become a verb punishment. Cases like Sledgehammer and Ergenekon have obviously found no response to the public conscience, and continue to be discussed. Mr. President, a matter I'd like to bring to your attention is the issue of the arrested MPs. You'll all remember, in July 2011, a protocol was signed with the common will of all political parties represented in parliament, and it was intended to resolve the issue of arrested MPs. In more than two and a half years since July 2011, law enforcement has failed to formulate a solution to the issue of arrested lawmakers with its own dynamics. The trials are over, the cases are over. In this context -- very soon -- we find the Constitutional Court's decision on Mr. Mustafa Balbay very important. We ask Mr. Balbay to get well again. I believe this decision will also be a guide for arrested BDP MPs from other cases. In the same way, we believe this decision will set a precedent for our Istanbul MP, Mr. Engin Alan. The Constitutional Court has been submitted by Mr. Alan's attorney to the Constitutional Court for violating a fair trial on his client and failing to perform the duties of the MP. The grounds for the Constitutional Court's decision on Mr. Balbay are two main points: First, the length of his imprisonment and second, the failure to serve as a legislator are related to the violation of his right to be elected. As those reasons apply to Mr. Alan, his objection to not being judged fairly is more important. We shouldn't be stuck here with the traditional prisoner, the exact sentence, and the time-sensitive distinctions, and the bottom line is that it's all about freedom. Besides, both in doctrine and in practice, the issue of final judgment is still to be discussed. For Mr. Alan, the rights-seeking path is not completely exhausted; there are open appeals to the European Court of Human Rights, which is in the interest of the law, the renewal of the trial, the individual application to the Constitutional Court and its own discretion. In this framework, we wish that the application submitted by our Istanbul MP, Mr. Alan, to the Constitutional Court, to end his arrest, and to open the way for him to retrial. Our wish is not limited to Mr. Alan. Long imprisonment and other rights violations apply to all victims. If we don't want to leave files embedded in the dusty archives of the judiciary, the heavy costs paid by these victims must be taken into account and their retrial must be opened. In addition to our current structural problems over the past decade, lawmakers have added two new and crucial threats. The first is that we are moving away from Parliamentary democracy and towards an authoritarian government. Our political management system is defined according to the system of separation of forces, and state bodies have been given powers and responsibilities within the framework of this principle. It is necessary for the men of law, conduct and judgment to be in a position that is balanced amongst themselves, does not exceed their borders, does not meet with one hand, does not surround each other. Compulsion of this principle, overstepping its jurisdiction and its mandate, leads to political crises under state administration. It is the state of law that enforces the principle of separation of forces and sustains it. The use of power and authority that extends beyond the constitutional limits of legislation or execution is restricted by the rule of law. Of course, maybe in the first place, the judgment is the rule of law. Besides, the state of law doesn't mean a state of law, it has to stand in legitimacy. An independent and impartial judiciary is also essential for the mention of a fully legal state. Despite this universal acceptance, unfortunately, in our country, rather than the separation of forces, a journey has begun towards the default of the forces, the concepts of government with the government have been aligned, the concepts of legislation, law enforcement and governance have been neutralized from its function, an environment in which law and law are intertwined. The habit of the EC PARTY relying on the digital power of power and acting alone has created deep cracks in parliamentary democracy. Dear lawmakers, the second threat is the ethnic-based separatist threat to our nation's unity and integrity. There is a threat aimed at liquidating the state of the Republic of Turkey, destroying our nation through ethnic dissolution and division. In fact, this is a new version of imperialism that has been updated in the account of disintegration with the Turkish nation. Unfortunately, he's been able to find new possibilities and actors. By disrupting this game of imperialism, being a Turkish nation in this geography must be the common denominator of all who form our nation and live together, the Turks and the Kurds. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, what is truly astonishing is the government's insensitivity and false policies, whose mission is to destroy this threat along with other institutions of the state. The government, which failed to carry out its duties in this regard, has long been involved in secret talks with the PKK and its separatist head, and has begun openly under the so-called openness and solution process. The so-called solution process is not a state policy, contrary to all claims, because no decision-making process has been run in order to have a state policy on this issue. The process of establishing a political opposition in parliament or a decision attended by other parliamentary groups has not passed. I don't remember any national security board referring to this so-called opening process. Unfortunately, there are a very limited number of people in Parliament and within the government who know the true nature of this expansion process. Thus, it is not possible that such a hidden project could be a state policy. I'm carefully following every national Security Council statement, and I'm advising you, there is no reference to this solution process, and there is no explanation for the way and the outcome of this solution process is state policy, which is absolutely not possible. No state unit could possibly offer a state contribution to such a project, which would ultimately lead to our separation, which would give us a bonus for ethnic separatism. Dear MPs, there is also no social and political legitimacy to this process. The ruling party, which asked our citizens to vote in the 2011 elections, did not share with our nation that it would in no way launch such a process, that it would meet with the PKK, the separatist organisation, and that it would try various openings. There is no power of attorney here, and this is never based on social and political legitimacy as a result. In addition, every step of this process -- I take your attention -- is clearly a crime in terms of the Criminal Code, Anti-Terror Law, the Law of Political Parties and the Constitutional Law. Many of the decisions of the 4 judicial packages that have been issued are tactical moves to fill the process. The latest package of democratisation is this goal. Whether it's tactical or strategic, each step separates a piece of our unity, our brotherhood, and fuels ethnic dissolution. The point we've come to is that the PKK has placed all Kurdish-rooted citizens in representation, politicized ethnic separatism, dealt with it, and made it legitimate and negotiated. My dear friends, these are the issues that I've considered to be the targets of a terrorist organization from the beginning. The separatist group, which rebelled against the Turkish nation in 1983, knew that it could not defeat the 800,000-strong Turkish Armed Forces. He intended that one day the state of the Republic of Turkey would sit him across the table, take him in, consider him legitimate, and form the terms of negotiations with him. It's very clear, and I want to say, in contempt of this bench, that this organization has finally achieved its goal in this period of time, in its struggles since 1983. I'd like to refer this to you and the pure consciences of our dear nation, and to your appreciation that the next process is a very critical process for our country, for our sisterhood law. Mr. President, I've tried to draw your attention to three issues from the start, yes, if you'll notice: the first, the state of law, independence of the judiciary, judicial neutrality; the other -- I mentioned two threats -- is that we're moving away from parliamentary democracy, we're heading towards an authoritarian direction; and the third, we're facing ethnic separatism in terms of our country and our state. These are very life-threatening threats. We have many problems; we have many problems, such as unemployment, education, health problems, social security. But these issues are new, vital and crucial problems. Turkey cannot move on until it reaches a certain point at these three points; it cannot be the region's strong country. So how do we get this point? That's the question in our head. Has there been a consensus between political parties in parliament? No, it didn't. Unfortunately, these processes, which the ruling party alone does not have the need to share with the political opposition, have reached a critical point. Unfortunately, these three crucial points of reconciliation, a solution dynamic has not been seen, and the possibility of such a consensus in the upcoming election process seems very slim. So, if legislation hasn't come up with a solution, will these problems remain unclaimed? What about the future of this country? Will these problems be left alone and continue? How will we protect our country, our nation from the consequences of this harmful process? Are we all just going to stand by and watch? Will we remain silent about crimes committed, unsupervised law enforcement, efforts to share state sovereignty, parallel state structures? Of course, we are aware of our duty as the National Movement Party. We are working hard to eliminate these threats, and we are not at liberty to extend our responsibility to anyone. In this context, we view all three elections in the coming years -- the financial elections, the presidential election and the parliamentary general elections -- as our country's fate elections. I'd like to point out today that we are at a very risky crossroads, such as saving our country as a whole or, God forbid, taking it to torment, to disintegration, to division. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, these three issues are not unclaimed. The founding philosophy of our state, our constitutional system, has not left all three issues unclaimed. Who are we showing? I'm not showing it, the address our Constitution has shown in this sense is the Turkish judicial system, particularly the high judiciary, Turkish law legislation. The only institution to oversee this process under the principles of the legal state is the Turkish judiciary, particularly high judicial bodies. In the emergence of our country's political crisis and chaos, sometimes the governing, sometimes the legislature has led. Today, this pioneer mission is on the Turkish judiciary. Judiciary bodies can help us to get out of this critical process by overseeing all administrative and legal regulations that will breach our national and unitary structure without looking at who's backing, who's undermining who's behind it, by not giving us approval of authoritarian changes that would drive us away from democracy and the democratic parliamentary system, by simply looking for the establishment of law in every inch of our country's land, by using the authority given by the existing Constitution and laws. The Turkish judiciary to lead this will also ensure that the legal state and independent judiciary in our country will never go back. Yes, when I expressed my view on various platforms, unfortunately I saw that I was looked upon with desperate eyes. ▪ Is the Turkish judiciary going to get us out of this issue? Such questions are being asked that are not clearly pronounced. Yes, despite all the negativity, I first know that the Turkish judge and the prosecutor are not satisfied with the situation they are in, and that they are targeting an independent judiciary, an impartial judiciary, and a real legal state. For him, I still have hope, and hopefully, the leaders will come forward on the courage of judgment. There will be very valuable people raised by these lands on the independence of the judiciary, and there will be strong institutions to do their constitutional duty as opposed to the three threats I'm talking about. That's my faith, I'll carry it to the end. In these feelings, the Justice Department wishes our budget to be a blessing to the justice community and to the great nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0188par0065	Thank you, Mr. Basesgioglu. Erzurum MP Oktay Ozturk... Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0189par0070	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I stand before you to present our views on the budgets of the Justice Academy and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. At the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation. Also, the judge, the prosecutor, the lawyer, the clerk, the bailiff, the guard, the bureaucrat, the chief, the officer of the court, salutes all members of the court, health, peace and happiness. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about justice. You can put a variety of meanings into justice. You can describe justice in a variety of ways as far as your conscience is concerned, but it's important to know that there is no injustice there, but there is no giving to the rightful. In justice and in any case, justice has its consequences to discipline the wrong-doers. We view justice as a guarantee of rights and freedoms and the basis of the state. Therefore, judgment should be based on a structure in the minds and hearts of justice that people can trust without hesitation. In order for our people to live in a fair and just social order, the rule of rule of law must be judged. Because guaranteeing rights and freedoms is the basic duty of the state, not the protection of the strong, but the protection of the righteous, the establishment of social harmony and peace, by limiting various forces to the rule of law. In short, justice is the basis of property, state and social order. What is so important is that the establishment of justice, above all, is that judges and prosecutors are righteous and righteous. Is this the case that exists in Turkey today? I'll answer right away: unfortunately, it's not like that. And I'd love to say it's like that. Because, starting with the education of judges and prosecutors of the trilateral code of justice, starting with their law school education, their vocational exams, their training, their physical and spiritual resources, their transfers and promotions, and all the steps to their retirement, unfortunately, there are a lot of problems, boredom and negativity. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, what happened in our country, especially after the 2010 Constitutional amendments, has made it clear that the Turkish judiciary is in a state of misery, that it's giving an alarm, and that this has affected the lives of the state and the nation in every way. Since the AKP's majority of fingers can't digest democratic control mechanisms, it's likely that the judge has tried to turn a judge into a backyard rather than a control body. Although many legal arrangements were made during this ruling period, the problems of the judiciary were not resolved, but the judiciary was also tried to be an instrument of the establishment of government authority. I'd like to stress that the AKP's ruling has made the judiciary independent and unbiased. This is observed with regret by every citizen with a conscience, confirmed by all our merciful institutions and organizations, and even in international reports, the situation is pointed out. In 2012, the Union of European Judges and the Union of European Judges and Prosecutors for Democracy and Freedoms (MEDEL) published two separate reports showing the situation in the Turkish judiciary. In both reports, setbacks, difficulties, and problems in our judicial system have been put forward for a long time, but in particular in the MEDEL Report, the discovery is very remarkable: The Turkish judiciary is clearly under the order of the man who conducts it and is not allowed to carry out the vital control and limitation function. Members of parliament, according to objective research, the Turkish nation's confidence in justice has been reduced to 30 per cent of its belief that the judiciary will judge with justice. When we look at the polls conducted in various ways, the justice mechanism, which should be at the highest level in terms of credibility, unfortunately, is shown at best in the 30 percent. And the first thing that our citizens now have to do in some way is look for a good lawyer, not find an expert lawyer, unfortunately, and unfortunately, find out who the judge knows who's going to decide. It is considered essential to access to the judge because the citizen believes that when he knows the judge, he can be justified even when he is wrong. If he can't get to the judge, he thinks he can't get his due even though he's right. At this point, of course, I'd like to glorify our judges, our prosecutors. This is the perception of society, our judges, our prosecutors. I'm talking about the perception of society, not the judgment of society. If the sense of confidence is compromised, if people are beginning to believe that the justice department can't give them their rights, they're going to resort to illegal rights. This poses a serious threat that would make it impossible for our country to continue in state and nation. Dear lawmakers, as you can see, the state of the Turkish judiciary is pathetic, but let's not forget that justice will one day be needed for everyone. Those who claim to have been wronged in the past must immediately give up these unjust practices. And we say to the rulings who believe in all the majority of fingers, who see democracy as just a regime of numbers, that justice will be your greatest refuge in the future, but if it goes like this, I'm afraid there won't be a chance to talk about justice on such a day. What needs to be done before it's too late is that the problems of the judiciary be determined objectively and not by political opinions. The Justice Academy and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors we're discussing today is the focus of the problems I'm talking about. Dear MPs, the Justice Academy is the first institution where judges and prosecutors entrust their clean consciences and open minds at the very beginning of the profession. In a manner of speaking, the Justice Academy is the first school of judges and prosecutors, and the most important task of this institution is the training activities of judges and prosecutors. Therefore, the growing of judges and prosecutors with a fair, impartial and independent vision depends primarily on the fact that the Academy of Justice has these qualities. The Justice Academy was established during the AKP period on 23/7/2003 through Justice Academy Act 4954, replacing the Justice and Prosecutor's Candidates Training Centre. The Academy has not been able to improve enough despite its nearly ten-year history of training, consultation, assistance, study, research, publication and cooperation given to it as a duty by law. Unfortunately, the legal and administrative judiciary has failed beyond the service of training for judges and prosecutors -- which has not been successful enough. Although his name was the Academy, he was not able to establish an academic structure, but rather made a political staffing home. In an environment where there are vital problems in the field of law and justice, Turkey's Justice Academy does not fulfil its expected historical responsibility, but instead deals with issues such as giving staff and titles and opportunities to certain groups and individuals. Turkey's Justice Academy is an educational institution above all else, or rather it should be, but has not been able to perform enough of its duties in vocational or vocational training activities. This is evident in decisions that have been made, especially in cases that are closely followed by the public, with criminal and illegal operational consequences. So the judges who signed these decisions were not taught enough that they should make decisions based on their conscience, not on political concerns, but on law and justice, that they should be fair, impartial, and independent. Unfortunately, today, the Justice Academy is in his service under the control and control of political power, even more gravely. And the worst part is that those who have never been bothered before, when they've taken the helm, they've gone silent, and they're content with it. The most important institution that judges and prosecutors who have completed their studies and have been appointed to their professions are the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. As it is known, prior to the referendum on the Constitutional Amendment 12 September 2010, the Justice Department had the power of knowledge about judges and prosecutors, and the AKP governments have used the power that the Justice Department has been holding by the hand of the Justice Department throughout its power. During this period, the AKP influenced the HSYK and managed to make the appointments they wanted quietly through personal opportunities for members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which they were very critical of, and by means of favourary reports on certain judges and prosecutors who were also ordered by inspectors of the review board. The appointment of judges and prosecutors who have filed cases that have been closely pursued by public opinion, such as Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer, and who have decided to arrests has been secretly carried out because of the appointments made during that former HSYK period. The 2010 referendum was originally carried out by the Constitutional Court and the HSYK, and through it, by means of it, to control the republic's prosecutors and the bench judges -- the entire judiciary -- the AKP's government. However, the events following the 2010 referendum have shown that there has been a structure beyond AKP's control, which, at its proper time, can even afford to deal with the AKP, which is unpredictable. However, if the AKP hadn't taken these structural changes to take control of the judiciary and instead tried to create a judicial system that every member of the Turkish nation could trust and not doubt its justice, it would not have had to struggle with certain powers and customs. As of today, our main criticism of the HSYK is the formation of the board. In this regard, the Undersecretary of Justice should not be present as a natural member of the board. The president's membership election authority must be revoked and the members must be elected by the TBMM. Since members of the HSYK can be re-elected after their term of office has expired, they must be chosen reasonably -- six years -- and, for example, only once -- because they can be removed from neutrality by considering the next election. Another important criticism about the HSYK is the judicial control of board decisions, which we think should be supervised judicially by HSYK decisions, which is the shortest term on the subject. When it comes to the 2014 budget of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Although there has been no regulation in the Constitution on the budget of the council, the HSYK Law No. 6087 will be governed by its own budget, but there is no clearness on how to make the budget and who to determine it by. In accordance with the third joke of Article 44 of the law, the President of the Council, the Minister of Justice, represents the Council of Justice in the talks on the budget, which cannot be invited to make a statement. • This is an indication that the members of the Supreme Court are not directly effective on their budgets. The European Council's Council of Ministers' recommendation for 2010, however, envisions consultations with the central organisations of the courts themselves and/or judges, if there are judicial boards or other independent authorities responsible for the administration of the courts, while drafting the budget of the judicial system. Again, the board must have its own resources on the budget, and it must be able to manage them independently. If the council does not have a budget of its own, it is thought that authorities holding resources may try to shorten them and influence the board. As a result, we feel that as long as the HSYK operates unbiasedly, their needs should be met by our government, as long as they are fair. If there's justice in a country, there's nothing to be afraid of in that country, but today we have to look for the reason why every second of us is in fear. Members of the judiciary and judicial staff also have many problems. Judicial members should not suffer from economic hardship. The rights of judges and republican prosecutors must be removed from the executive body and improved according to the scope of their mission. It is also necessary for judicial personnel to improve their working conditions and rights urgently. It is necessary to make legal arrangements for both judges and state prosecutors and execution officers to receive an actual service increase. It will be appropriate for the bailiffs to be included in the general management services class, and it will be resolved. The complaints of public defenders and legal advisors must be taken into account, and the regulations for correcting their rights must be made. What we say from above, we say as partners, that judgment should not be dealt with or played in any way. Justice, justice for such and such, and justice for such and such. Of course, we want the members of justice to be fair, but in parallel, all institutions need to be fair. Those who hold power need to be fair before anyone else; they need to pay close attention to their words, to their conversations. There's one thing that those who are at the point of saying the last word must first know, that they always talk everywhere, but most importantly, they need to know what not to say, because when justice comes behind these things, people doubt. If you point out where he is because he doesn't get up in front of you, at this point, you tell a person that justice is unfair. Today, our Istanbul MP, Engin Alan, may have been judged correctly by judges, we don't know if the crime is stable, but we don't know if the Prime Minister has pointed out that he didn't wake up in front of us. You see where he is at work. Who are you going to convince that the decision here is fair? Now, for a few days, a member of parliament has been shouting here at the bar, explaining the negotiations you made with the governor. He says, "If you don't explain it, you will be called." Now, we're wondering, what negotiations have been made? When the TK prisoners came out tomorrow, did they get justice, or did they come out of these negotiations? Can you make this judgment go away? And we are rightly asking, are there any of these negotiations where Engin Alan is lying inside? Because the injustice you've put forth, unfortunately, leads us to think at this point. I wish to end my words with an example: Justice can only be born from truth and happiness. The one who commits injustice is more miserable than the one who draws it. I salute you all with the hope that justice will cease to be the justice that fosters the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0190par0095	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Scholar Necati Özensoy... Here you go, Mr. Özensoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0191par0100	Mr. President, I've been promised the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources budget on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. Before I go on my reviews, before I go on my evaluations, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary for a favor. Again, about the first paragraph in the Budget Programme, I'm going to read the basic aim and goals in 2013, a little bit more expanded in 2014: the main goal of energy policy is not to go into economic development and social development, but in a competitive market environment, with constant, quality, security, environmentally sensitive and possible cost. If he gives us a vision instead of responding to our reviews, I think that if he gives us a vision of this kind: 2023 goals of 100,000 megawatts, 500 billion kilowatts, how to get out of the hydrocarbon need, how to attract our external dependence from 72 percent to 50 percent; if he can give us a slightly more revealing vision of all of this, our critics will be in the air. Now, look, before I go on my reviews, as a member of the OSCE Commission for six years, to express our sincerity in the Ministry of Energy, there are also records and transcripts that we thank the institutions who have done their job, done their job right, contributed, while we have been doing our reviews on all the institutions in the energy corridor for the past six years. For example, I would like to say that, starting at the end, the National Bors Institute -- although it has little to contribute -- is doing its work very well; really, they're very good at both increasing production and increasing the market for boron and boron chemicals, and they're very good at patenting. And, look, if we start here, again, the meat mine has a very important discovery in the last year of the chimney gas filtration. They made us watch that video about this invention. They keep almost all of the carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide gases they've tried inside a 10 megawatt power plant, close to 100 percent, and they also reveal that filtration in the chimney gas as a product, as a product of the glass industry. This is a world-class breakthrough that's very important to me. But what I don't understand is that when this is being discussed by the CSI Commission, when we say that these are very important, there's nothing in the newspapers or in the Ministry of Energy, there's nothing on the agenda of the Ministry of Energy. Now, look...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0192par0104	Don't the bureaucrats hear it, they're there? They're walking with us.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0191par0105	And, of course, when we told the bureaucrats -- the Department of Energy, EDUC, etcetera -- they had a hard time believing it, too. But I'll tell you this: when Nabucco was being signed in those days, there was a lot of news on the pages, on the front page, on the front page: here, Turkey is entering the energy corridor, so much profit on the meter. Mr. Secretary, even though it's in the 2011 Court report, don't transfer funds there anymore, it's a risky situation. You threw away 35m euros, 35m euros. Now, how are you going to account for that tomorrow, and I'm curious about him the next day, even though the Court warned you, and this project, which you described as a project to raise Turkey, has now been thrown out. And I said, how do we bring up a project like Nabucco that's being thrown out of the trash, even though you don't express a world-class work done by the Meat Mine? And, look, of course, the state of the Republic of Turkey, as I've expressed here... And let me put it in parentheses: all of the numbers, all of the reviews that we're going to be saying here, are from your program, the government program, and the World Energy Council, the energy report from the Turkish National Committee, and it's one of the reports the institutions have given us again. There won't be an ounce on it, let me put it another way. This report says that in 2011, Turkey met 72 per cent of the primary energy with imported energy. From the '90s to 2010. In the 90s, we continue to take out 52 percent of the energy policies -- of course, maybe not 52 percent when you take over -- but it was 60 percent -- on an externally dependent energy policy. Moreover, of course, as we look at it here, oil has been reduced to a percentage of hydrocarbon consumption, and natural gas has been replaced, of course. Now, let's start with oil on hydrocarbons, primary energy. Who's the most important producer of oil? Turkish Oil. Turkey's Oil again in these pamphlets, according to these reports, has been increasingly low to 28.100 barrels in production, and then the opening of wells that have been shut down has now grown to 33 to 34,000 barrels, related to domestic production. There's no one barrel deal in your era regarding oils in the area of Azerbaijan, Çıralı, Kazakhstan. All of the revenues are already being produced by 14 years, 15 years ago, under agreements that are currently under way. Look, you've often visited the northern part of Iraq with good intentions about Turkey's Oil in recent months, with regard to oil, you wanted to do it, your plane was turned down. Then you visited, made deals. What are we getting at right now? Another zero. If the Iraqi Center doesn't approve of this agreement, which you should know from the beginning before you make such an effort. So there are statements made by Mr. Foreign Minister, and he will no longer look at the Turk when the oil flows. Such cynical, insulting things again. Now, where we come from, what happens in the end? This is a project where Iraqi oil has already flowed in the past, where the state of the Republic of Turkey has earned money, a project in the past. Now, you've made efforts to bring this to life, revitalize, perhaps to provide cheaper oil than Iraq, but in the interest of foreign policy, these attempts to be carried out along with foreign policy have, unfortunately, failed in your testimony, even in the tenders you've received. So unfortunately in oil, despite the new Oil Act, I'd say the mountain gave birth to mice. The oil part of the hydrocarbon needs will continue to import 91 per cent of Turkey, perhaps even more in the future. In this external dependency, you are again expressing in your own program that the total power of power of power plants, which were 57 megawatts in 2012, is estimated to increase by 7.7 per cent in 2013 to 61,000 megawatts. The most important share of this increase is expected to come from natural gas plants. Look, you're expressing yourself. Now, what kind of outside dependency would be reduced in Turkey by these natural gas plants opening up with these licenses? I'm really curious about what kind of program you're going to do. Now, when we look at all these projects that have been applied for licenses, languages removed, construction, we can't see this projection, but let me just say, of course, that's all that's being talked about in these reports. Especially with the figures of Turkey's domestic renewable resources, you know that it has a structure that can produce 750 billion kilowatts with what is now available, and those who are interested in it know it, but what's important is to act on that potential, to encourage people to do it by opening up, by encouraging them. Now, you've passed two laws on domestic renewable resources. In the first place, the prices started at seven euro cents on hydroelectricity, depending on a serious euro cents; in the sea, sir, 12 euros in wind energy, at the sea, at the price of 25 euro cents on the sun, but then, here, with the laws that have been passed in the past years, these prices have been reduced to almost one-third in the sun. You're looking at it on the side, and you're saying, well, you're talking about costs down and so on, but despite the fact that half of the solar power reflected in Turkey is reflected in Germany and Europe, Germany is now taking a huge amount of time in solar energy. So, despite your 7,000, 8,000 megawatt applications, with only 600 megawatts of application this year, you're still blocking this solar energy with license acceptance. I mean, with this kind of policy, I'd like to know where you're going to take the results of the energy policies that I expressed at the beginning. The wind, of course, has a lot of myths -- clean energy, renewable energy, but you know that more than 20 percent of the point clocks can't be connected to the system. So today, our point hour is 40,000 megawatts in Turkey, and today you will have 8,000 megawatts at the most. According to the projection in 2023, 100,000 megawatts will be attached at most to 20,000 megawatts. So I don't think it's right to rely on the wind in this sense in Turkey. Now, of course, when it comes to energy issues, there's a lot to say, a lot to express. Look, again, at this checkpoint, like BILL, like TPIC, like TPOC, I want to say that these are not being prepared, these are not being prepared, these are being made by the Court, and you need to make sure that this is opened up. Of course, in electricity production, of course, one of the biggest problems that concerns the citizen is the missing fugitives. You know earlier, in 2008, these missing fugitives were put into cost-based pricing, but then, as of 2013, they were supposed to go into regional-based pricing, but you did prevent it, and you said, because you said, "Well, then there are a lot of regional differences." That's true. I mean, in a sense, why would the great missing persons in another place be paying the people of the Marmara region, the people of Asia Minor? Subsidize as a government. So you have to explain the meaning of billing citizens for all kinds of government fugitives, thefts, etcetera -- or rather, why would you put that on a citizen's back, which is impossible to understand. In particular, the missing fugitive rates have dropped to 14.7, but why did they come out today -- so I'm saying it round -- and you need to explain that. So you're saying in the privatized companies, that both the missing fugitives are getting smaller and smaller, and... here, as you can see in the projection of TEDAS, they're going up to 14.7. So when we were privatizing this, were there some manipulations on the numbers? Sir, were those companies transferred by a higher number of missing fugitives? In particular, we see these missing fugitives growing in the Istanbul area. I really think that a lot of things in that sense need to be explained. As I put it here, when it was put in vision, look, we referred to it as clean, environmentally sensitive energy. I don't want to get too involved in nuclear energy at work. About him, given to the Russians by international agreement, followed by Japanese-looking Frenchmen, followed by China. We all know nuclear energy isn't a domestic source, but it will help with supply security in terms of energy diversification. It's an external addiction, so the average 12.35 cents they get there, Russia, probably won't put it in the pockets of the people in Turkey. This money will go to Russia. I'm saying that if you do projects at the point of environmental sensitivity both more sensitive to hydropower plants and thermal power plants, it would be much more useful if you went to a place where the cherry trees, where nature is worth a lot more than 30 million tons, and you did them in new fields. And the hydroelectric power plants, instead of the type of pipe, I want to say that the lake type, the environment, and all of these reports actually have all the causes of all these problems. In my opinion, the government's worst policies so far are energy policies, and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0193par0121	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Adana MP Ali Halaman. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0194par0125	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, under the budget bill of 2014, I have made a pledge on behalf of my nationalist Action Party and group on the budget of Atom Energy, Mining Study Research Directorate. I salute all of you with respect. Highly valued lawmakers, when called energy, Turkey's energy shortage comes to light. Because Turkey has been seriously troubled by energy all the time. Although the authorities fought very seriously at the point of solving these problems -- so 99 percent in natural gas, 91% in gas, because of electricity from the dams you've built -- the Turkish community has always had the opportunity to talk about energy, talk about politics, say something. Because in order for energy to become domestic, adequate, governments, politicians have tried so hard, they have not achieved what we might call optimistic. Therefore, in Turkey, the opening of continuous gas prices, gas prices, importing new distribution companies, gas stations, new new relocation sites selling diesels; in Turkey 70-75 per cent of the electricity money that is not collected; in Turkey, the first-degree buyer seems to be very profitable to respond to new energy; in Turkey, the new HESANs, new thermal plants -- a part of which is based on imported coal -- are also related to domestic production -- dams related to the privatisation of this energy; in Turkey's companies, especially in Turkey's case of the state, the government appears to be receiving power on the day, and on Turkey's day. Recently, especially in Sinop. About nuclear energy, you know, Mersin Akkuyu, but we don't do that. It's become the institutions that are constantly being brought up by environmentalists. Recently, the Ministry of Energy, particularly at the point of responding to these needs, has always been referred to by Turkey as "pirate," "Korsan" and "peshmerge," "There is diesel in Iraq," "Northern Iraq," "there is gasoline," "There is gasoline and mazota" in Turkey. However, when the Minister of Energy went to meetings where there was a lot of gas and mazotun, it wasn't interrupted, it wasn't downloaded from the plane, and it wasn't enough, I was again amazed at your country, and I was shocked at how much power I had in Diyarbakir. I'm happy to be flattered so much. He's making a mutual agreement with the man who comes in saying, "What's going on, citizen?" Who are you selling your property to? In Anatolia, sometimes it's like this: he's got 500 acres, he's a farmer, and I don't mean maybe he's a... maybe he's a... not a scorner, sometimes they say he's a farmer. So an outside man comes in, talks to a worker about his field, about his production. So there used to be something about the guards among the prisoners: the worst of guards tells the prisoner trouble. Yeah, well, you've got this much energy in this country, so yesterday's $16 tube cost $100, $16 ten years ago. Ten years ago, it was $1,000 worth of diesel -- I'll tell you, with the old money -- $4.5, $4.500. What's wrong with you that you don't give a raise? I mean, in this country... Now, I'm going to tell you something about HESEs, which is my area: even though it's the most profitable business, I mean, in two years, he builds dams, he makes HES, he gives the environment a lot of trouble; his buyer is government, his money in advance, he distributes it. It's over in two years and it's paying off. Is there such a trade in this country? Now, although, because of this example, I'm making a deal in northern Iraq. The man at the bottom says, "I can't do this. I won't accept what you're doing." The man on the other side says, "I don't accept what you're doing." Now, because of these, the Department of Energy, I mean, I'm not very much in the market, I'll tell you about the energy in the market conditions, the tube in my house, whatever the natural gas is, I'll tell you about it. My children said yesterday we'll take natural gas. They said there's a report. Yeah, well, now, every one of the authors of power was described as a late-term report card. So what you're doing today is not a report card on natural gas? Therefore, they gave 50 licenses in Turkey's energy -- in these BITs, in our past period -- to Adana, to Marash, to Skysu, to Kayseri, to call it the River of Adana. Some of it's gone into production, some of it's just lumpy. 12 people have died in one of the HESEs, because of the technical failure, the company's failure, or the error of the ministry's initiative, because of the errors of the contract, and because of the mercy of Hakk. Now, six of these have not even been found dead. So they said, "We're going to make Ceyhan Amsterdam." They gave a company in the free zone -- is it called the Chalek Group?" They said, "Al, whatever you do with this place," they didn't nail it. Ceyhan, there's no power spikes in the free zone.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0195par0134	They promised.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0194par0135	Look, even so, I mean, from time to time, we helped make it happen.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0196par0136	It's their Çirik.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0194par0137	Now, with regard to the HESEs, they gave twelve thousand liras each to the families of those children who died. Look, they've always paid those 33 dead people 125 billion dollars to come up here. Now, would it be possible for me to tell the budget of such an Energy Ministry... or that such an Energy Ministry is doing well, or would we be able to confirm that budget?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0197par0138	I don't think so.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0194par0139	Therefore, I would like to say that I will reject it when I pray that the Ministry of Energy's budget, despite all, be the cause of good deeds from the Lord God, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0198par0141	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Batman MP Bengi Yıldız. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. Star, come in. Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0199par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the Justice Department budget. I salute you all. The Minister's last days in office. The Department of Justice has been doing it for a long time. In terms of human relations, it's important to say that the Department of Justice has performed really well in terms of the bureaucracy's availability. And I wish you all the best in your new duties.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0200par0149	To you, but not to others.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0199par0150	You can say that when you get here.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0200par0151	Tell him I'll tell him, but you tell him the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0199par0152	But, as a matter of fact, after being in the ministry so long, he became one of the least controversial ministers of this Parliament. That's probably because of his personal qualities. Because we've seen that the fundamental rights and freedoms, the safety of the person, especially when it comes to freedom, when people in the same ministry put their own statements on top of their ministry activities, they're getting serious reactions in society, and we've seen that they can't sit in that chair much longer. Why am I saying this? Because during Mr. Attorney General's time, the biggest, biggest cases in the history of this country have been the TK cases, the Sledgehammer cases, the Ergenekon cases. Thousands of people have been stripped of their basic rights and freedoms, and they've had a lot of fun treatment from detention processes. However, I'd say our Minister was the least criticized minister. However, the Minister will say that this is the reason for the separation of forces. Since the judiciary is independent, these actions are the actions of the judiciary, not directly concerned with me and my government. But, we all know that in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the judiciary has always been political, unfortunately, until now. Therefore, the independent and neutral judgment still seems to be a longing for all of us, but far away. I'm not going to point out the past that they've applied a lot of times when I'm here to criticize Mr. Minister of Justice and the government, because no one can escape today's responsibility by imitating the past. Our reference is the modern world, the European Union, the criteria of democratic countries. When we look at this, Turkey's justice policy has failed, and we would like to point out that there is a justice policy to be criticised very much. On the walls of the courts, words are written, as are the walls of our House. Here, it is called the unconditionalness of the nation. We know this hasn't happened yet. Justice is the foundation of property. The concept is found in all courts, under which it is written "Mustafa Kemal Ataturk." It's been very controversial lately. There is a debate between the Kemalists and the government's parties, a serious debate whether it is Mustafa Kemal. In the end, Mr. Mustafa Armazan also referred to the historical sources of the past, saying that this statement belonged to Hazreti Omar. Of course, we know it's very historic. But this argument is, of course, a bitter argument. Justice is the foundation of property. I think it would have been more meaningful if we had followed that phrase, how far we would go after who said it, how much it had come to life in the time of our powers. For example, if Mustafa Kemal said this, let's look at the trials of the Republic's history, the policies of justice. We see together that there is a process of justice, a process of judgment, a process of governance, from the Supreme Courts to public inspectors, and then we see the judicial decisions that cost us history. Now, we've come to the 21st century, where the Justice and Development Party is in power. Justice is the foundation of property. He uses the concept of justice a lot, but especially the policies of the past republican era, which are not in public, that he is not in justice... the Democratic Party, then the Justice Party on the right, then the Homeland, the last AK PARTI, by criticizing past periods, it is the nation's word. It's been about fifty-six years, and right-wing policies, we see together that in our country, right-wing policies are not the basis of the state, the basis of governance, but, unfortunately, we are dealing with a policy of justice that is intertwined in the past. When we signed up for the school, they took us in groups of five, six, the foundation of justice. What does it mean, young people? What did each of us say? Some of us said it was probably the foundation of capital. Some of us said different things, some of us said different things. Then our teachers said it was the basis of the government, the administration, a system, that's what it means. Dear friends, what are today's arguments? We came from fair order, we came from fair share. The issue that is being discussed these days, sir, is a journalist who is very close to the government to explain today's situation. How many MPs were there before 2002, and how many are there now? How many bureaucrats did he have -- here, in the various mechanisms of the state -- now in the Council of Judges, which we're probably going to discuss -- now he's entered into an accounting system like accounting, a sharing system. The year is 2013; the power of one of the country's active congregations in a democratic state can easily be a subject of speech, articles, of how much in society, in government, its efficiency. So we understand that the current government is also the basis of justice. The concept of justice there -- the concept of state, governance, not just governance -- is the basis of justice capital; justice is the basis of capitalism; justice is the basis of the strong. Justice is perceived as the basis of the strong. It has shown its concept and practice in this way. Dear friends, in the 61st Government Programme, where our Minister is a member, the commitments to justice are as follows: ▪ Justice is the foundation of property. Our government, with understanding, has adopted that the basis of the legal state is the principle of justice. It is our main goal from economic development to the establishment of social peace to create a system of justice, which directly affects the everyday life of our people. First of all, in our legal system, we have passed laws like the Law of Criminal Law, Criminal Law, which has lost its currentity, which has failed to meet the demands of the community. We've increased the capacity of high courts in order to shorten the length of their trial. We've reduced the workload of the courts by about 20 per cent by making arrangements to speed up the judicial process. By building modern palaces of justice, we saved the courts from their basements and built five times the amount of justice service built in the history of the republic. In Istanbul, you remember, the precious friends, the Clumsy Courthouse and the Eagle Courthouse were made. Congressmans know that these are soulless structures that look like huge state structures in Eastern European countries, which we've often criticised. When the lawyers were arrested, something came from Twitter saying: "If only they had planted some money for justice when they built it on the foundation of this Falls Courthouse. " I've never really seen a European country built such a soulless, huge building. For example, in Belgium, in England, I entered many courthouse buildings, historical, very quiet buildings, just as they entered a sacred place, and when people entered there, they entered as if they had entered a temple, with such dignity. Now, how many floors did we make ours? It's got a thousand windows, and it's mostly leaking roofs, and the elevators aren't working. He thinks we can bring justice to justice by building buildings like this, and we're entering into a statement. Of course, it's good to take the courthouses out of the basement and move them to better serviceable places, but, for example, the Ministry of Education has schools that are more like this, where you look at them, and you actually think you'll find a structure that resembles past Ottoman architecture. But when we look at the buildings of justice, it's cold, and it's really very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, By increasing the capacity of the Adli Medical Institution, we will accelerate the services of the institution and expand it across the country. The 61st Government Programme says. Unfortunately, while we're waiting for hundreds of patients who have been going there, waiting months for reports, in the contradictions between those reports and the reports of the medical examiners' union, waiting for reports from the Forensic Medicine Association, and for dozens of patients waiting for release, unfortunately, we're all seeing their lives come to an end. Now, these are the promises of the 61st Government's Programme, dear friends. How does the European Union see us? Minister says: According to the European Court of Human Rights in 2011-2012, 8.010 applications were made at that time, and 5,919 new applications were made from September 2012 until now. Here, the reduction of applications to the European Court of Human Rights has been presented as an indicator that the judiciary is working well in our country, but everyone knows that there are no further appeals to the European Court of Human Rights because the Constitutional Court accepts individual applications at the same time. There seems to be a reduction, a downturn, but it doesn't reflect the truth. There are now thousands of files in the Constitutional Court, and 250 of my files from the past are now in the Constitutional Court, because there has been an appeal before going to the ECHR. Thus, the European Union Progress Report refers to this relative progress, but this is also relative. The European Union Progress Report continues to be a source of concern during demonstrations and arrests regarding the prevention of torture and abuse, adding that excessive use of force in official detention centres and prisons remains a source of concern. The law enforcement force is suing those who claim torture and abuse. I mean, the police are beating, torturing the citizen, the police are suing him right after he sues, and unfortunately, the courts are moving forward with the law enforcement case before the citizen's trial, and at this point, they're playing a compelling role. That's what the European Union Progress Report was referring to. ▪ An independent law enforcement commission is still not established, it says. Again, he says he was imprisoned in accordance with the Turkish Penal Code, which is mostly left-wing and Kurdish-rooted, and has not yet been changed. In his charter, a closed-down suit was filed against the unions because he defended the right to education in the native language. ▪ Children are under arrest for the crime of being a member of a terrorist organization. As of May 2013, about 2,000 children aged between 12 and 18 are in prison. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most fundamental problems of our country's justice system is long imprisonment. Recently, along with the evacuation of Mr. Balbay, our fellow members of the Peace and Democracy Party have applications, which will probably be released shortly, but that's not the main problem in our country, there are hundreds of elected local executives inside. That's not enough, dear friends, Turkey's public opinion, our people are watching us. If the MPs and the elected ones in prison go out, and thousands of people continue to remain in prison due to long imprisonment, there will be serious public debates that lawmakers and the judiciary have created a discrimination, a positive discrimination, or rather an immunity area. Hence, there is a need for a legal arrangement to limit long imprisonment at a time when everyone complains. Mr. Secretary, we know you won't go after Roboski as a government, but there's been a mass murder in the past period. Last time, the European Court of Human Rights ruled on this. Turkey was condemned for approximately 2m euros in compensation. In the villages of Asparakanar and Kokoğal in Şırnak province, there was an air bombing that resulted in 38 deaths on March 26, 1994. Unfortunately, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey because there were no serious investigations during the period of your government, and I would like to share with you the headlines of this sentence: 1) The government did not release documents proving the Turkish Armed Forces' flight to Şırnak to the European Court of Human Rights. 2) The government argued that the PKK had launched the attack and that all steps had been taken. 3) Only one person was autopsied in the massacre of 38 people. 4) For the first time in 14 years, a prosecutor wanted to go to the area, and the gendarme did not allow the prosecutor to go to the area, saying, "We can't ensure your safety -- in your time." For 19 and a half years, civil authorities have not questioned a single military official because of this case. 6) The government could not deny the military document confirming the flights denied. You know, it was the time of Tansu Chiller. When the planes bombed these villages and carried out the attack that cost the lives of 38 of our citizens, Tansu Ciller's planes bombed the villages, the PKK tanks came and bombed them. At the time, the Ministry of Interior and General Staff had come and bombed the place. The defenses of the Justice and Development Party are similar to the defences of other governments. Despite knowing these documents, he pretended not to know, and the ECHR is stressing that there is no effort to continue a particularly effective trial. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important elements of a fair trial is lawyers. Right now, we know that 20 or 30 of our friends we can call lawyers have been taken into custody from the legal bureau of the century, from the public law office, from the TK and Dev-Sol cases. What is this? In particular, the presidents and executives of the Society of Modern Lawmakers are now inside. The President of the Association of Modern Lawyers was abroad when this operation was launched, and when he came back to our country, the President of the Society of Modern Lawyers was arrested, and one of the grounds for his arrest was highlighted as suspicion of escape. That's an interesting situation. Again, we have friends from the Batman Bar Association, Diyarbakır Bar Association, Van Bar Association, İstanbul Bar Association arrested under the name of KCK. Now, I'm asking the Minister in particular. Because these people were arrested for meeting with Mr. Ocalan, because they were legally his lawyers. What's the motive? They were arrested on charges of correspondence with Kandil. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Pervin Buldan, Mr. Idris Bauken, Ahmet Türk, Ayla Akat Ata, Mr. Altan Tan, they're meeting with Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0201par0180	So I'm here.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0199par0181	Yeah, you're there, too. Perhaps tomorrow, if God forbid, this process is not going well, you... which they don't have any legal infrastructure for, Mr. Ocalan says. They're not lawyers, so there's no legal ground. With your government's permission, they're moving in and out.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0202par0183	It's in the law, it's legal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0199par0184	I mean, maybe we could...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0203par0185	We can go to prison, we can go to Imralı, there's nothing wrong with him.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0204par0186	There's nothing else we've done.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0199par0187	It's okay to go. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These friends, these lawyers, going to prison, the defense was a legal right, but what happened? I'm afraid, like these lawyer friends, that tomorrow you and I can have the same lawsuits from the same procedure because none of us are guaranteed by the law, we're all under arbitrary practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0205par0193	Thank you, Mr. Star. Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. Your time is twenty minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0206par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there's a very famous word among the public that falls from the roof. There's a lot of people in this country. From the past to this day, religious Muslims in this country -- from Sadi Kurdi to Master Sheikh Sait -- recognized prisons, torture, oppression, oppression, oppression. Leftists, socialists, Marxists have suffered in this country. In this country, Kurds have lived in prison or prison, and in this country, the nationalist, nationalist movement has again experienced persecution, oppression, oppression, oppression, and oppression throughout this country, from Mamak, and before the coffins of the 1940s, or from coffins to Mamak. I'll give you one example and then I'll keep talking. God rest his soul, I had a law with Muhsin Yazıoğlu as a friend; God bless him again, and he said in a conversation at the house of Hassan Gravedigger: I stayed in Mamak (Mamak) for seven and a half years, and I remained in prison. I spent eight months in a cell with a Marxist -- as you call it -- in the same cell as a communist -- where I was tortured for eight months, what was done to him was done to me. Now, my dear friends, why am I telling you this, from Badi Zaman Saidi Nursi, from Sheikh Sait to Muzsin Yazoğlu, to the coffins of Alparslan Türkesh? Everyone in this country, we've all been through this system, we've all been through these practices, but unfortunately today, unfortunately, those who saved themselves, saved their lives, prospered, and at some point, have forgotten their past, the position, the status, the position, the authority, the money. Dear friends, today there are serious problems in prisons. Mr. Secretary can say it's not like Diyarbakır Prison in September 12th. True, it's not, but today there are still modern, modern, democratic, human, Islamic, conscientious, moral conditions, dear friends. If we keep comparing ourselves to the past, we'll get nowhere, which will turn into the polemics of Solomon Demirel. Sir, you used to draw water with pumps, there used to be gas lamps, even Isparta city center, where electricity could only be delivered for two hours a day. There are cars today, there are refrigerators, there are roads, there are highways. There's electricity in Afghanistan, there's Kenya, there's Congo. So what are you going to do the comparison with? What are you comparing what to what? Today, terrible things have happened in the past, and we have come here from there. You can't justify the negatives, the injustices, the tribulations, you can't justify them, you can't justify them, it's not possible. So, after this introduction, after this reminder, I say again, dear friends, we all fell off the roof. Half of this Parliament may have passed through prisons, arrests, interrogations, organisations, cults, structures, but today, unfortunately, there's no sensitivity, here's the problem. That's where we criticize, and that's where we cry. Dear friends, yesterday is behind us, so don't call us the spoils of fortune any more. Look, it's spinning, the chiefs of staff are coming in. He's lucky, those who threaten to stake someone can't get out today. There's no telling what tomorrow will bring you or us. We all need the law, humanity and fair treatment again. We have to sit here, we have to go in tomorrow, we still need all of us. Now, dear friends, another problem, this is a matter of comparison. When AKP came to power -- again these are official numbers, numbers -- the total number of prisoners and prisoners in 2002 is 59,429. Whatever happened to our nation, whatever happened to us, where we came from today, ten years later, there's a number like 140,716, 11 years later. Our population has doubled, and the crime rate remains the same. If you say so, it is true, but it is not; there is an increase of 136.6 per cent. So there are serious problems with the moral corruption of society or economic, sociopolitical structure, and there's also a serious shortage of democracy, or there's a lack of expression, or there's more than enough arrests, detentions, trials. There has to be an explanation for these numbers, so according to sociology, there has to be an explanation for the increase, which, according to psychology, according to political sociology, is twice as large as this. Dear friends, our time is limited. We're using the term "total mahmupus" about the prisoners in prison, and we have certain observations for the prisoner and for the prisoner. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read them in order to save time: Three meals is every man's right to eat. For no reason can prisoners be restricted, but we observe that even the most basic human right to feed is violated in prisons, and that the sick prisoners are not given food in accordance with their diet. It is the prison's obligation to meet the need for hot-cold water and to maintain hygiene in prisons, but it has been observed that conditions for the cleanness of prisoners are not provided and water is not met, or even given water with arsenic. Such negativity also raises the health problems of prisoners and prisoners. Under the provisions of the Criminal Security Protection Act 88-1, the criminal administrations are obliged to organise social activities that will help the prisoner develop new skills, which will allow him to develop the character of the prisoner. It is said that this right, which has been guaranteed by law in prisons, is ignored. According to Article 13 of the third chapter of the Department of Justice 22/01/2007 days and 45/1 joint activities, the right to talk within the framework of open-view or social activities in public areas or other joint areas has been decided not to exceed a total ten hours a week, even though the third section of the Ministry of Justice, which regulates joint events, has been established according to Article 13/1 and, according to this, the prisoners and prisoners have not been able to find this area of right to meet in groups that will not exceed 10 people. Visitor's right of view is one of the most fundamental rights of the individual. However, because of the exile of prisoners to remote prisons, families are unable to visit or visit because of their economic inadequacies, or because the administration has changed their day of view in an arbitrary way, the prisoners and families are deprived of that right. The purpose of exiles is to isolate prisoners, publicly destroy them. Inmates who have no vision can become lonely, give up hope in life, even commit suicide. Mr. Minister, there are prisoners who have been exiled from Diyarbakır to Bolu. They have been exiled to Tekirdağ. How will their mothers, fathers, wives, children go? What economic possibilities will they go with, and why would they go so far, how would they communicate with them? Please, you put yourself in their shoes, and right now, at the beginning of the most important demands that have come to us, the demands for prisoners who remain at these distances, and we often pass them on to the Ministry of Justice, but unfortunately, we still don't get enough results, exiles and distributions continue all over the country. Communication and the right to communicate have also been influenced by the arbitrary practices of prisons. In almost all prisons, certain books are censored, and the prisoners are not given books at the rate they want. Now, if a book is free to publish and distribute, if there is a legal ban on it, why is any publication censored, and there is no legal explanation for that, I'm afraid. Although proper physical conditions have been secured under Article 63 of the Penalty and Security Measures Act, the number of rooms and beds in practice is insufficient, while the prison administration's beds are among the complaints of prisoners who sell for money. Hygiene conditions are negative, inviting diseases. If there are so many prisoners, prisoners, a number of 59 thousand to 146,000, there is no way that Turkey could be raised to prison. Currently, the discovery of the new prison to Diyarbakır alone is around 200 trillion liras, with 200 trillion old coins, around $200 million new money, and prison is built. So the social fabric of society is supposed to be relaxed, while studies in criminal crimes should be conducted to prevent criminal activity; on the other hand, not only are the things necessary at that point, but the things that lift his head in the political issue are being taken into custody, arrested in some way, and then, until he's out, his life is going on, four years, five years, six years, these long imprisonments continue. Dear friends, the prisoner's rights of examination and treatment are constantly violated. Many of the prisoners are suffering from diseases that require constant treatment and may lead to fatal consequences. Negative prison conditions are also seen to be causing these diseases. And the most interesting part is that almost half of his population has been taken into custody, arrested, tortured, and a significant number of them have been arrested. There is no prison ward in Diyarbekir. The smallest surgeries are transferred to Elaziğa, Malatya, Antalya. Personally, when I first heard that, I got goose bumps. There are nearly 3,000 bed capacity today in Diyarbakır, Dicle University has 1,050-bed hospital, 550-bed research hospital, 450-bed state hospital, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is a cancer hospital, there is an oncology hospital, but there is no prison ward. Since there are no prison wards, these prisoners are being transferred to the surrounding provinces for surgery. According to the political opinion of doctors in the surrounding provinces and their stances, unfortunately, these people are even more victims. I mean, there's no other explanation for this, it's nothing but cruelty. Dear friends, there are also serious problems with the inmates in juvenile detention. You know, this is a deep wound from Turkey. It was impossible to cover up the recent scandal at Posanti Prison, but whatever happened, it was somehow closed, it was gone. Dear friends, we all have children, we all have children. Today, the slightest trauma of a person's childhood goes on for a lifetime, and no matter what psychologist you go to -- even Turkish movies -- extends you over a couch, says, close your eyes. And it begins from your childhood to solve you, subconsciously. He's trying to figure out what you're going through, what's going on, what's causing depression in your psychology. Now, about our children, especially this Sincan Prison and Posanti Prison has been an example, a bad example, an example. I wish there was a proper example. More than anyone and anything else, we need to focus on these issues. And I told you about the sick prisoners. As of November 3, 2013, there are 544 sick prisoners who are heavy, dear friends. Again, you know, some of these things our President has the authority to forgive or release, but it's only a matter of time before the coffins come out of there or the people who come out of there somehow lose their lives five days, ten days later. So this, again, requires an intervention in the measure of mercy. The Penal Code 24 January 2013 and the Law on Punishment and Security Measures No. 6411 have also been conditioned on the amendment of the Law and the extradition of sick prisoners until they recover, and on the condition that I cannot maintain life alone, I shall not be a danger to public safety. If you love God, what does that mean? Mr. Secretary, please explain this, the condition that I can't live alone is added to the condition that I pose no danger to public safety, do you know? How did you accept it, with what conscience, and why did you accept it?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0207par0221	We agreed here.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0206par0222	How did you not interfere? The prosecutor is not dangerous to the community, even if the medical examiner gives a report in the form of a single person. The decision must be made. I don't know what to say. He's dying. So, what kind of community security, what condition, how does it violate something, what does that mean, what does that mean? I personally don't understand. If anyone understands, go ahead and explain. Dear friends, intensive administrative pressures, lack of physical administrative conditions, obstruction of access to shared space, difficulties in access to physical and psychological problems, blocking the right to air conditioning, blocking the right to air conditioning, the shortness of sight and phone calls, the obstruction of transportation to foreign newspapers, magazines and publications, the lack of physical conditions, the lack of a permanent physician, the lack of access to general health care services and dental care services, the delays in hospital transfers, the long-term delaying of transports -- you know that a prison vehicle has been knocked down in a place, you know, the lack of food and badness of access to foods, the lack of physical conditions, the absence of a permanent health care system, the failure of a general health care and dental care services, and the fact that many of those who have lost their lives during transfers have lost their lives in an illegal prison facility -- they have lost their lives in another instance, including the many in prison staff, including the lives, including those who have lost their lives, including their lives, including the many in prison facilities, and the lives. Dear friends, as I said, we've been through all these negative conditions for years, but, you know, after he fell off the roof, today, it means that when you relax a little bit, you don't study too much, you don't look at what's going on. I want to talk about a prisoner: Hasan Kozar, 29, life in prison, has been in prison for ten years, and is suffering from haulozan spondylite. He could walk 30 days ago, but now he can't move or turn his neck because of his illness. He's already in the hospital, but he can't be interfered with due to bureaucratic interference, and he may never have a chance to live again from the hospital to the prison. Dear friends, there's a lot of trouble, and we know the Minister's zeal for it. You know, sometimes they say kill the rich man, don't take credit for it. But these efforts mean that the Minister's zeal is not enough; Parliament needs to regain consciousness, the AKP Group needs to regain consciousness, the government needs to regain consciousness. If you can't make these problems into laws in Parliament, regulations in the Ministry, all of this doesn't mean anything again. The detentions of the Association of Modern Lawyers have been held again, including the lawyers who have been arrested for nearly a year, Istanbul Branch President Taylan Tanay, whose arm has been bent and his fingerprints have been broken and forced to print, are only a few of these examples. Not to mention the problems of the workers at the courthouse, the officers at work. There's one page of their exposure. Unfortunately, there's little time, there's too much trouble. Dear friends, finally, I want to tell you that the arrested MPs have become a scandal, scandal for the President of Parliament, scandal for the Prime Minister, scandal for us. What's done is done. Now the last Supreme Court came to its senses, made a decision, two of our friends -- one of our friends from CHP earlier, one of our friends later -- were released. Five of our MPs are now in prison, Hatip Dicle's sixth, in prison. So, dear friends, what's this court been arguing about all week, what's it waiting for? And finally, sir, the Constitutional Court will issue its ruling on grounds. The Constitutional Court, I'll say it's the Reverends, but I'm forced to say it, it's the right decision for their pleasure today. It's Monday again. Dear friends, if you turn this into a vendetta, you're going to waste the country. We need peace, we need compromise. Every second that our friends remain is persecution, injustice, and a pity. There's a lot of work for all of us to do for all of this. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0208par0234	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici... Here you go, Mr. Rider, 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0209par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the BDP Group on the 2014 budget of valued lawmakers, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and its subsidiaries. I hereby salute everyone with respect. Dear lawmakers, the main entries needed for sustainable development and economic growth are undoubtedly the main sources of energy. In this regard, it is vitally important for all economies to create sustainable policies in the field of energy and ensure supply security. Sustainable energy policies aim to harmonise with the natural environment, while supply security includes the diversity of resources, as well as the supply of energy to a low-cost and quality society. Today, energy sources have become the most important factor to shape international politics, as it directly affects sustainable economic growth, social structure and environmental factors. Essentially, fossil fuels, particularly oil, have a weight on international politics, dating back to the mid-19th century. Imperialist countries have since begun to determine world politics on the basis of oil and energy resources. As dependence on oil, which soon turned into an industrial arm, increased, it also increased the momentum towards oil areas detected on the surface of the Earth. As a result of this trend, the first shared wars were aimed at the capture of oil sources in the north of the Middle East and Africa, as well as the second share wars in the Caucasus region. In addition to oil, the efforts of natural gas to be seized by imperial forces have left our world facing wars, riots, military coups and massacres. Although it is an inhumane assessment, a drop of oil is worth more than a drop of blood. ▪ British President Winston Churchill sums up the most dramatically struggle of mankind because of oil.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0210par0243	Mr. Ibrahim, they called Suruç, they don't have electricity, they don't have distribution...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0209par0244	I'll ask him, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0210par0245	No, no, the distribution company was related to Taner Yildiz, where he used to be General Manager. I'd appreciate it if you'd speak of Suruç.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0209par0246	It continues in the Middle East, North Africa, Russia, the Caucasus and Central Asia. In this regard, energy is no longer concerned with pure economic development, but also directly related to the country's security. One of the most important actors in the world economy is the United States of America, no doubt. It imports a quarter of the primary energy and crude oil consumed on earth and two thirds of its oil consumption as a country that consumes nearly half of its fuel alone. For this reason, the struggle for energy for America is also viewed as the future and security problem of America. The United States does not shy away from making enormous financial and military investments to protect its energy sector, its interests in energy. In this regard, the entire effort of the United States is aimed at guaranteeing both the source and the security of transportation of energy. In order to achieve his goal, he is able to use his military strength when necessary and shed blood without blinking, I'm afraid. As a matter of fact, the US presence in the Middle East and the cost it endured for this is due to the obligation to be part of the energy game. He's not just doing this for his energy needs, he's doing it for the sake of maintaining the power to define world politics through controlling the world's energy lines. Similarly, one of the most important actors in the global energy market is Russia, no doubt. We all know that Russia uses its advantage in oil and especially natural gas as a political weapon as much as it is economically. In the context of these information that I'm sharing in general, I'd like to briefly say that the main goal of countries in the world's production engine is to sustain energy supply security. Therefore, it is clear that the constant, secure, quality and minimum cost of energy is too important to abandon at the mercy of the free market economy. While concerned with Turkey's energy policies, I think it is impossible to evaluate them independently of the world's energy policies. As a matter of fact, it is clear that Turkey, which imports almost 73 per cent of its energy resources, is not above the world's energy policies. Turkey's importing over 60 billion dollars in energy demand last year alone proves its vulnerability to energy policies shaped around the world. See, a small example of oil prices in terms of understanding the extent of this vulnerability will make the issue even more clear. For example, considering there were over 137 million barrels of oil imported last year, a $1 dollar increase in oil barrel increases our oil bill by $137m, and thus brings with it the current open plague. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a process in the world where the free market economies in the energy sector are being questioned. And I would say it's impossible to understand the government's insistence to leave the energy field entirely in the private sector during the process when the strategic energy issue is shaped as a state policy. As a result of this understanding, you know that there are knife-back situations, especially in terms of natural gas and electrical supply security, almost every year. Therefore, it is imperative that the energy field be adopted as a public service and restructured within the framework of state policy. Dear lawmakers, this government has raised its external dependency rate to 73 per cent, with 67 per cent due to policies it has implemented since it took over in 2002. Almost half of the electricity energy produced at the coming point is produced from a single source, which is 98% of the gas we depend on is natural gas. The vortex that we've been dropped into in the production of electricity isn't just that. Other imports, such as imported coal and fuel oil, are already over 12 per cent. As a result, almost 60 percent of our electricity production was made possible by imported sources. Precious lawmakers say they are turning to renewable resources to reduce their imports in electricity production, especially natural gas, and to reduce their dependence on the outside, the government has made an eye out for already over 2,000 HES projects. The government, which added new to its natural, historical and cultural massacres with Ilisu and Munzur projects, confessed to the destruction of small streams with the statement of its own member, the Minister. The government doesn't care that the world's unique, at least 12,000-year-old historical Hasankeyf ▪ will remain at the dam site. At the same time, according to official figures, the cultural, social and economic rights of more than 55,000 people who will be harmed are also ignored. Just as in the past, the killings of cultures in Birekik and Yorttan were carried out in Hasankeyf, as in the past, in Munzur and Storm Valley. It should not be forgotten that new alternatives to energy production are possible, but there is no alternative to our historical, cultural and natural values. At this point, I would like to point out that the most rational use of resources is of course important to Turkey, which is dependent on energy outside. However, the Water Rights Act, which was implemented by the DSI and Electrical Affairs Administration, has been surrounded by the source of our streams, almost transformed into natural and environmental raids. The approval of 26 HES projects on almost every stream in the East Black Sea Region, especially in the Twins, is the clearest evidence of this plundering understanding. As a matter of fact, instead of his friend, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, an expert on water, we also destroyed small streams with HES projects. I'd like to believe that a minister from the ruling party who has ignored our motions to investigate HES projects so far cares about this confession and is sincere. Dear lawmakers, another issue the AKP government insists on is the dream of building a nuclear plant. While the European countries gave up nuclear power, the AKP government sought to build a nuclear plant in Mersin and Sinop. The power behind the minority, which supports the nuclear power plant with full nationalist concerns, ignores major social opposition, especially locals. The government has also blocked the objections of non-governmental organisations and energy experts to make the racist and show-offs happy. As we know, the trail of the Chernobyl accident on our memories was almost wiped out, and it was revived by Fukushima's plague. In fact, Chernobyl, like a bad legacy passed down from generation to generation, is still living in secret in the bodies it enters. Even today, the extent of the accident in Japan's earthquake and tsunami disaster is not fully known. Japan, the technology giant, could not prevent this accident, is far from calculating the size and future effects of the accident. The only good thing about Fukushima's nuclear power plant accident is that it once again reveals the risks of nuclear energy, the human desperation in the face of this disaster, and most importantly, the unrecognisable natural and environmental disasters. For these reasons, many European countries, especially Germany, Belgium and Spain, have put new nuclear energy projects on the shelf. Dear MPs, there are some of you who remember that Turkey, without a nuclear facility, has entered the list of "the world's 20 most important radioactive accidents" in the 1999 event of Istanbul Twotelli. Whether it's from the junk warehouse or the drawer nuclear research center, even today, this unresolved accident continues to protect its mystery. Again, a Tikitelli-like incident in Turkey, without a nuclear plant, appeared 13 years later in Izmir, and a nuclear waste scandal broke out in the garden of an old lead factory in Gaziemir. Moreover, the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency, which has been known for years on the basis of reports from these wastes, has been able to cover it up by pouring 1,200 tons of sand onto the waste. Imagine that this is the only institution that does research and activities of Turkey's nuclear energy. Imagine that this institution will take over every phase of nuclear power plants planned to be built in Mersin and Sinop, and again, imagine that this institution has covered the scandal with AKP sand in this facility, where there are doubts that nuclear fuel rods have been melted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my deputy has just mentioned it. They just called me, too; there's been no electricity in the cities in the area of Urbana, Diyarbakır, Mardin, or DEDAŞ distribution company, for seven or eight hours.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0211par0268	Nor in the dikmen, nor in the dikmen.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0209par0269	The electricity distribution of Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Batman, Şırnak, Siirt provinces was handed over to Dicle Energy Investment, Industry and Trade Anonym Corporation through privatisation, which was signed on 28 June 2013. So, whatever happened happened after that date. Since the beginning of last summer, electricity blackouts in our already existing provinces in the DEDAS network have bored our people to death. Immediately after the privatisation era took place, the so-called maintenance of transformers, no repair and renovations, the public is condemned to darkness for all sorts of reasons. As well as the dams that are around it, the cities that host the Ataturk Dam and other cities in the distribution area no longer believe or consider any reason for these cuts. The districts of the DEDAŞ network are specifically expressed by the DEDAS authorities on the grounds that the cuts in the poor slums and villages have been imposed on preventing the escape. The only reason authorities who live awake choose poor neighborhoods and villages for cuts is because they want to take out power cuts on the agenda. However, the day does not pass because of the interruptions in Urbana, Suruç, Siverek, Kızirek, Harran, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Van, Muradiye, and many other places. Looking at places where protests have been conducted, the cuts will be seen not only in the DEDAŞ region, but in Kurdish geography as a whole. I'm protesting these practices against the discipline of Kurds through power cuts, and I condemn them, and I wish it would be over as soon as possible. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit03spe0212par0275	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Congressmans, I'm recessing until 8:30.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0212par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Bill. The commission and the government are in place. The speakers of the Republican People's Party Group were next. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0213par0008	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, before I begin my words, I salute you all. There are five marketing and sales companies, including Luxembourg, Finland, the United States, China and Russia, based on the General Directorate of Mineral Enterprises. There are also representatives and agencies in various countries that belong to these five companies, as well as to the General Directorate of Eti Mining Enterprises. By the power vested in us by Law 2840, the Department of Mineral Enterprises of Meat operates our boron salt mines as a monopoly in the name of the state. Bor salt and refined boron products are a substance used by developed country industries and high-tech institutes. The General Directorate of Mineral Enterprises has exported 2.5 million tons in 2011, mostly from the various products produced by our boron salt mines and our mineral resources, to the People's Republic of China. What companies have produced 706,202 tonnes of exports outside of 179 tonnes of exported to the People's Republic of China by the General Directorate of Meat Mines for exports of 885 000 tons of boron and refined boron products, and its own marketing company, Shanghai Etimi, ISIA? A total of 2.5 million tonnes of boron and refined boron exports in 2011 appear to have been carried out by the General Directorate of Eti Mining Enterprises of 811,468 tonnes of oil and other vendors, as well as by its foreign marketing companies, while the remaining 1 million 626 tonnes of exports are carried out by agency and other vendors. In other words, the General Directorate of Eti Mining Enterprises has produced 33 per cent of its total exports through the General Directorate of Mines and five foreign companies, while the remaining 67 per cent by means of agencies. What companies are these privileged agencies that perform 67 per cent of the exports of the General Directorate of Mines? According to the court's decision, the search, operation, marketing of Bor salts shall be carried out by the state according to Article 2840. Other than the General Directorate of Mineral Enterprises and five foreign marketing companies, the export of boron and boron products is made by agents and other vendors. Again, the Emet Borik Acid Facility was tendered by the government in 1998 on 15/3/2004, including 30-month extensions. The final acceptance would have to take place within a year, 15/3/2005 at the latest. But it's in three months. The final account must be made, with a definite agreement, but the exact account is held on 30/3/2010. Mr. Secretary, I'm pointing out that the exact account is being held on 30/3/2010. Hence, the institution is late to receive about $3,139,649, and the institution is being damaged. This firm is being court-martialed for failing to fulfill contract requirements, no matter what. However, the company then takes over the construction of the Centipede IV boiler-turbo generator units. The 40a Boraks Pentahidrat Facility Project is taking over the turbo generator production business again. The contract price is 10 million, 947 thousand lira plus VAT. The deadline is 17/10/2007. According to the contract, the company is given a period of 720 days and a total of 209 days without punishment. The company is under surveillance for 209 days without a penalty. A lot of mistakes are made during the deadline. According to the contract, the deadline must be delivered on 6/10/2009, which is 720 days. The firm wants a three-month extension on the generator, saying it expects approval from the ministry, that it will go without charge for the boilers, which is also given. According to this, the new deadline is 4/1/2010. At the request of the firm, the company has been granted a 105-day second sentence extension by the board of directors. At the end of this period, the company said it needed a 15-day extension for performance tests, and was asked to be delivered on 3/5/2010. On 2/5/2010, the performance test commission was only able to test the accident with natural gas. The firm completes performance tests on 4/6/2010, the temporary admissions commission is established, and on 30/6/2010 the temporary admissions report is issued, but the report is held on 4/6/2010. The firm is being suspended for 32 days as of 3/5/2010, which should only be finished, but no transactions are being made for 26 days. After the surrender, after eight months, the steam boiler and alternator have detected oil leaks, the steam turbine has been stopped. Despite dozens of correspondence with the firm, the boiler's failure is not being repaired, while a 41,400-dollar service is being resupplyed in order to determine the problem of 160 tons/hour steam-accessed boiler. This is paid by the institution, and this bill is not reflected in the company that makes the incomplete and imperfect production. If all these irregularities were not completed at the appointed time, the penalty for delay was to be imposed by the contractor for each calendar day, at a rate of 5,000 per thousand. If the contractor didn't fulfill his commitment according to the terms of the contract, he would have to register his final guarantee and rescind the contract. Forty-five V. The Boraks Pentahidrat Facility tender is a $230m job. Although the institution has already established I, II, III, and IV facilities, it is as if for the first time building a facility like this, using the original and complex nature of the construction work as an excuse to take refuge behind this excuse, under violation of Article 4734 of Article 62/C, which states that "no tender can be made without harmonisation projects." Even though it was said, the tender was made. In addition, the same clause is also required to be tendered "by taking a key delivery proposal for the work of computing projects." The sentence was also violated by the way in which the tender and quantity, the quality of the product, was guaranteed to deliver the key to the tender, among those willing to bid on the tender. So, what happened at the end of all this? There's nothing wrong with people who've damaged their meat mining business. However, the inspector who identified the institution as being damaged has been investigated, sentenced, transferred. So, what did the inspector do about it? Like an honest inspector, the prosecution has filed charges against the prosecution, the prosecution has filed indictments. This indictment, Mr. Secretary, has just come to your attention. If you'll excuse me, there's a very serious investigation into those who have done this wrong -- in front of you -- you have to give this permission. If we don't want corruption to happen in this country, if we don't want it to stay on top of people who are doing these wrongs in this country, you have to give it to them. This will be a serious test for you from our point of view, waiting for the result. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0214par0025	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Aydın MP Osman Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0215par0030	Mr. President, on behalf of my group, I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation and the Department of Mine Research and Search. I salute you all. We've been going through a very controversial process of producing nuclear energy in recent years. The debate on nuclear power plants has been well focused, especially in Japan, in 2011, along with the nuclear disasters caused by the tsunami. Despite these disasters, nuclear power plants in our country are offered by our government as a solution to our economy's most important problem, the foreign trade deficit. The transition to nuclear energy is widely and, despite everything, defended. Dear friends, if ever concerned institutions had acted in accordance with its purpose and spirit, had been able to do enough RD work, if they had been able to enrich local technology and local uranium resources, and had made nuclear energy available, then I think that nuclear energy would have been able to make the claim to be a solution to the foreign trade deficit, but unfortunately, the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency has not been able to carry out enough results in nuclear energy work so far. The nuclear power plants planned to be built in our country will not allow us to dominate energy, but will further increase our dependence on the outside of energy supply. What's the solution? Friends, the solution, of course, is to be able to do the work that will bring our local resources into play. In order to provide sufficient resources and equipment, local uranium sources must be used to develop domestic nuclear energy production technology. It's actually done, if local uranium sources can be activated, then nuclear energy can be the solution to energy dependence. If the current situation continues, it is unlikely that we will be able to keep our external dependence on energy production at 72 per cent from 67 per cent in 2002, while in 2020, the external dependency of 80 per cent in the years will have reached. We see this clearly today, especially if we look at the agreements of the nuclear plant in Mersin Akkuyu. Today, the technology of the Mersin Akkuyu nuclear power plant is completely dependent on the outside. The source of energy production is completely dependent on the outside. The national economy, the national resource, will have nothing to do with resolving external dependence in energy, but it will increase electricity production costs, due to the fact that an agreement has been reached for 15 cents per kilowatt. I think if we were to open a tender to meet the need for electricity from the 2020s instead of building a nuclear power plant for Mersin, we might be able to afford half the cost of 15 cents of kilowatts. Mining, as we all know, is particularly the main sector that contributes to the economic development, growth, enrichment of countries. The countries have found underground resources, identified them, produced them, and expanded their economies. Our country has great wealth from its underground resources. But the size of our mining industry in our economy is unfortunately only 1.5.2 percent. However, in developed countries, the rate is around 56%. Which clearly shows that our underground resources are underestimated. Since the rulers of our young republic really knew what mining would do to the economy in 1935, they established the Institute for Mining Study to be sought out, found, and brought into the economy. MTA has also signed many successful studies since its establishment. Congratulations to everyone who's passed the job, thank you. These studies, however, are not enough, as the above figures clearly show. MTA (MTA) needs to be strengthened, more equipped, more competent personnel. Therefore, it is evident that the budget's cut is not enough. As a result of MTA (MTA)'s work, our renewable resources have been clearly revealed as to how important geothermal resources are. Our underground resources contribute greatly to the economy. As a result of the development of the MTA (MTA) fields were sold to investors through a tender and investments in energy production. From this development, the area where the geothermal source is now gaining income. In the past, one per cent of the non-profit product of businesses has been earmarked for private administrations, while after the Metropolitan Law, the share of the same administration is unfortunately included in the general budget. In this way, local governments have been victimized, damaged. The burden has been left to the municipalities, and the income has been transferred to the general budget. This logic is not an understandable logic. Mining activities have been severely damaged by the Prime Ministerial General Assembly 2012/15. More than 50 per cent of public enterprises and capitals and companies owned by public institutions and corporations have made it difficult to obtain permission from the prime minister for all kinds of savings transactions, exchanges, allocations, transfers and so on, allowing businesses operating on public transports to be allowed to do so, and many businesses who have been unable to take a long-term leave have been unable to fulfil their commitments to exports. It is very important for the country's economy to resolve this problem quickly. Unfortunately today, if we are faced with a fully-addicted nuclear energy that is dependent on not making the necessary RD investments in nuclear energy in time, it is clear that we will not be able to benefit from it unless we can do the necessary RD work for the energy that we have to produce the world's largest reserves tomorrow. It can be done when R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; A. We all know that many of the world's countries have invested millions of dollars in RDs to produce bordane energy, to build a car that walks by the power produced by the boron. We create institutions, but we can't manage to take on the vision and the mission and set goals and separate the resources needed to achieve goals. In order for the production of bordan energy to be built with the energy that is produced by the boron, the power power plant that is powered by the boron, to build the necessary RDs, to grow the required trained staff, to build the necessary equipment, to separate enough RD budgets, to set targets, to monitor the realisation of the goals set up, so that we can enter the first 10 economies in the world, whether it's the 21st century of our country, or the first 10th century of wealth. With these wishes, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0216par0041	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. On behalf of his people, Malatya MP...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0043	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0216par0044	Yes, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0045	Mr. President, I'd like an explanation of an incident that occurred at the hearing just now, from my position, if you'd like to turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0216par0046	Here, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. In the previous session, unfortunately, Mr. Lütfü Turkkan, the MP of the National Movement Party, who threatened to kill Mr. Recep, our MP in Isparta, by coming to our ranks, and by threatening to return to us, and by swearing very heavily and galily, both to the dignity of the Assembly and to the MP, let alone to a simple citizen.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0218par0051	He's the one who invited me, the one who invited me.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0052	First of all, everyone knows their place. I want to underline that.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0218par0053	He'll know.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0054	No one has the right and the right to threaten a congressman by coming to our ranks as bullies. And in the future, I want to make it very clear that if something like this happens, we won't be leaving any shoes on it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0219par0055	They did the same thing yesterday.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0056	Look, dear friends, no matter who comes, no matter where he comes from, even when a congressman does it, no matter who does it...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0219par0057	Including the AKP?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0058	...we must all have the dignity of this House.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0220par0059	What about the cursers?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0060	We must all protect the honor and dignity of this House.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0220par0061	What about the cursers?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0217par0062	In that sense, it is clear that this congressman, especially our friend, came up to our ranks and threatened us with a very serious threat -- not all of our friends there are witnesses and things that have not been reflected in the report since you got up, but including the part that is reflected in the report -- the MP came to our ranks and insulted us and insulted us. In this respect, first of all, Mr. Recep, our congressman, who is in the position of victim, needs to make a statement. If you promise him a place in this matter, he'll give you an update. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0221par0064	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0221par0066	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0067	I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0221par0068	Go ahead and explain yourself.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, sir, look, there's been an argument between Haydar Akar, the speaker and Recep Special. Just like this: You said thank you, Mr. Akar. Then did you read the report, read the report by Recep Special? Haydar Akar. Did you read it all? Recep. Did you read it in private? You haven't turned on the page yet. What do you mean, Turkkan? So Haydar Akar is already in charge here. He asks, "What is a Magister?" Then I'll show you in private. Come here, come here. Come here, come here! Now, you're saying that Mehmet Şalp, MP of Ganaziantep, says that you are. Then let me see what Lütfü Türkkan will show you. I'll show you now. Lütfu Türkkan isn't special. Show me what? He says, "Let me see what it will show you." You're warning me again. This is Sugar, your time has been eight minutes. As Mr. Mehmet spoke, Mr. President, I salute you all. He said, "After that, Lütfu Türkkan will show it to you." When he says, "Come, I'll show it to you," he walks towards Recep Bey. Now, here's what you're going to get there and show... and I'm guessing the conversations there were between them. I think he's going to show it to me here, not to me. He said Lütfü Türkkan too.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0223par0074	Is this something you can use, Hajji?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0075	Now, this may be wrong, but I'll tell you this:
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0224par0077	Could it be?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0078	It could be wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0224par0079	Could it be wrong?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0080	Please listen.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0225par0081	Well, at least curse the motherfucker.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0082	But now he's here...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0226par0083	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0084	Wait a minute... what's a square? What's a square? First of all, think about him.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0227par0085	What do you mean, poacher?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0086	I mean, you're the ones down here that's lowering the level.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0227par0087	What's a square?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0088	You're the ones who've been talking chipmunk so far. I mean, come on! Shame on you. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0227par0089	It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0090	His contact is not Lütfü Türkkan, but he is a different person.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0228par0091	Mr. Halaçoglu, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0222par0092	He says he's going to show it to you. He doesn't say he's going to show it to you. ▪ He says he will show his deeds.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0229par0093	What more can he say?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0228par0094	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0229par0096	Teacher, it never happened, it never happened, it never happened. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0228par0097	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0230par0098	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0229par0099	There never was, never was.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0231par0100	Mr. President, can I explain what happened on the stand?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0232par0101	Your position, please, everyone has explained their position. So go ahead and make your statement. (AK PARTY and MHP rows indiscriminately) Congressmans, please. We're listening to you. Come on in.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0231par0104	Mr. President, very dear friends, we are here from time to time, to speak to each other on the stand, in terms of a certain respect and love, in terms of us or him speaking. None of us ever said anything hurtful. After Haydar Akar said that word to me, yes, I'm in charge and Haydar Akar is a CHP Group. What does it mean here, the friend in the MHP group, when that certain person repeats the same thing to himself and asks me to insult him? So I said, "Come, show me what it means here." From here, the friend himself, comes to the ranks of a great bully: look, I won't send you to Isparta, I'll kill you and kill you. Isparta MP Satia Sadi Bilç has heard the words, as well as our fellow MPs in the next row. After that, I don't want to remember another word here -- and after he said it, the other congressman friend took it away. We are not about to submit to anyone's threats or blackmail. I don't want to fall to that level with him, because under this sacred roof we want to do level politics, we want to do it. I'll leave that threat to himself, I'll transfer it to the public, sir, but I demand the punishment as well.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0232par0106	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0233par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0234par0108	You should be punished, too.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0235par0109	You should be given the same punishment.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0236par0110	Why should I be punished?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0237par0111	Mr. President, the 160th Amendment in this matter is very clear, and I demand that the person involved in this action be condemned by Lütfü Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0235par0112	Based on what, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0238par0113	Based on what you've got, what you've got. Teacher, based on what you've got.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0235par0114	The transcripts are here, and what he says is in the transcripts here. He's not the one who's in charge here, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0239par0115	And Muharrem Eyüt disbelieved. Was he punished?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0240par0116	Mr. President, there's both the harsh and hurtful words in the third paragraph, and it's very clear in the fourth paragraph to attack... that these two should be judged in some way and be condemned.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit04spe0241par0117	Congressmans, we're gonna have to talk about this again. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0241par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2012 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Borborial Research Institute's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 The commission and the government are in place. There's a request for a statement. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0242par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, each of the members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly represents the entire Turkish nation. Thus, each MP must perform his duties in a non-violent, non-violent environment with respect to the nation. Thus, such conflicts, blasphemy, are not approved of by us. So I wish everyone would be more careful from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0243par0046	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2012 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Borborial Research Institute's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 Now, on behalf of the individuals, Malatya MP Cemal Akin. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0244par0085	Mr. President, the honorable MPs have made a commitment to the Justice Department budget. I salute you. I ask for the mercy of my fellow citizens who lost their lives in the car accident in Malatya yesterday, and ask for the patience of their relatives. In order to solve problems quickly in the judiciary, our government has given new institutions to our system. Because as in the world, the number of discrepancies in our country has also increased, depending on the growth of populations, due to economic and social problems. As a result, the members of the judiciary are burdened with great work. In this scope, it has been understood that it is important to resolve conflicts outside the courts, before or after they are brought to justice to increase the efficiency of justice, and the friendly solutions are being implemented more often. According to UN data, this institution is in more than 160 countries. Negotiation is a friendly solution with the help of an impartial and independent third person, by bringing the parties together to understand each other and to create these solutions. This system has been implemented in the United States for 50 years, for 40 years in European countries. In the world's practice, 3.1 per cent of the 1.5 million legal cases annually are being solved by courts, 96.5 per cent of which are friendly solutions, such as mediation, peace, reconciliation and conjecture. Negotiation was a system in the past for our society with a culture of compromise at its core. In the past, our religious organization has established peace by resolving disagreements between the parties. Thus, in the past, the culture of reconciliation between all levels of our society was widespread and established. In this regard, the Law on Literacy of Law 6325 has been enforced by law. Intermediators are elected from among lawmakers who have five years of seniority in the profession after finishing law school. Turkey's Bar Association, Turkey's Justice Academy and law schools also teach intermediary training. In this education, lessons such as persuasion, body language, negotiating methods, communication techniques are also included. Those who have succeeded in the written and practical exam conducted by the Justice Department's Office of Arabism have registered as of November 14, 2013, as well as the intermediary record held by the Office's presidency. In this way, this system has begun to function in our country. Now, when conflict arises among our citizens, they are able to solve their problems through intermediaries before the case is settled. Negotiation is a solution without a loser. It's an app that both sides make their own decisions according to the principle of taking sides. The intermediary process is a secret process. In terms of commercial enterprises, secrecy is important, the principle of secrecy. It's saved on time, it's saved on lawsuits. Unlike the way the case works, the conflict will be resolved very quickly. This process is a flexible and old-fashioned process. Interrogation doesn't judge the past, it builds the future, it keeps relationships going after the conflict is over. Once the parties have appealed to the mediator, when they agree in peace, they all sign the text of the agreement. One or both parties can appeal to the court to give the text of this agreement the benefit of practicality. Courts give quickly, as a matter of uncompromising judicial work, the ability to carry out a decree, which is a legal document. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The statute of limitations and denominator times don't work in the intermediary process, and if the parties don't agree, they can go to trial. I'd like to wish our country the best of this arrangement and budget, which will lead to a reduction in judgment, and I'd like to salute your honorable delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0245par0094	Thank you, Mr. Akin. As a government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 32 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0099	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to make evaluations on our ministry's budget for 2013. I salute you all, your delegation. Of course, so far, I'd like to thank all the friends who have spoken in recommendation, advice, criticism. As there are some who understand the matter correctly, there may have been some who misunderstood and told the truth, and I'd like to make some evaluations on it. I don't think that's intentional. I'm not gonna talk about the success story or anything, but I think we need to have a little bit of a discussion here on some of the basic issues. Dear friends, first of all, the weather around Turkey today, the same days of last year, December, averages six degrees colder. In this regard, the daily consumption of around 183 million cubic metres has now reached around 200 million cubic metres. Praise be to God, we have no problem with the gas supply, and all of our dwellings continue to be substantially satisfied with the needs of our industry. It's just, I've always said it on a TV show last week. I said it would be very likely that there would be some glitches in the atmosphere-wide enterprises, especially with 1 million miles of transmission and distribution lines. Look, Heathrow Airport is in London, and there's been an environment of about seven hours in extreme winds and storms and 130,000 people without electricity. Sweden's Hakeza, Moscow, had 12 million people without electricity, and there were times in Manhattan where there were nearly 7 million people without electricity with all of them. For what it's worth, let's just say that any malfunction, any business error, let's just say that any of this could be possible. Because there's a natural gas distribution and transmission line about 83,000 kilometers. I just told you, we have a transmission and distribution line that's going around the world 25 times. Yesterday a transformer exploded in Yerköy due to extreme power pull. Mr. Vice Prime Minister has already informed me. At twenty past four in the morning, our two counties were supplied with electricity. Look, our friend mentioned Suruç. We have a 2x50 mwa transformer in Suruç. Someone's been burned by extreme gravity. Now, we're changing it. But, now, where is this coming from? Look, in a way that I believe our citizens are still there, 76 percent of them are still using electricity illegally, friends. Twenty percent of the remaining 24 percent pay in full. Now, I want to be clear about everything. In one village -- my friends came to me, and they told me -- that three of our citizens are being made to invest five dollars a month, five dollars a month. We said, "There's no money in this village." He's the operator who normally shuts down the electricity in the village. It's said that three of our citizens are paying for electricity there. Look, they're from five TL. So let's not cheat on each other, guys, just be clear. We have to work all over Turkey to protect the rights and the law of our citizens from Edirne to Kars, from Sinop to Hatay. Some of our friends rightly said: "What have we done about the missing fugitive rates? " Yes, the missing fugitive rates need to be reduced even faster. Today, when we remove the Tigris and Van region, Turkey's missing fugitive average is lower than the missing fugitive average of the European Union; it is 9.4 per cent. Now, it's our job to do that in those areas, folks. How do we do that? We're going to tell our citizens, we're going to pass them on to our citizens whose tissue, structure, we're going to make payments, and they're going to make payments, and the company has erased the interest of 762 million euros, and if we're going to collect the real money, I'm going to download the real money, but on one condition, if you're going to subscribe, he said. Now, there are 580 subscribers from 2,700 irrigation pumps. Friends, at some point we have to call it pause. We can't ignore it, let it be done. We'll take care of this structure that we put in our will together. Our citizen there is our citizen. In order to provide all kinds of ease, but if we subscribe - each of us will do our duty. So, we show this will, and it has to be within the framework of the vision, the strategic goals ahead, and the policies ahead. Dear friends, we've come to you today with about 1.8 billion TL budgets of our Ministry, but also with the investment fund of our relevant institutions, with a figure of 6 billion. With all our connected, relevant, and related institutions, I hope we'll try to manage each one of them next year. Now, about securing our supply security, would you say something concrete to a friend of ours? So what are we going to do? We're saying in general sentences, I'm going to move to the concrete: we're going to grow Turkey, which, I'll just say, as of November alone, has increased our consumption by 4.2 per cent compared to last year's November, and it's increased by 5.7% compared to last month's electricity consumption. Energy growth in Turkey has to be more than our economic growth, so that the right level of prosperity can be offered more. So, we need to create the growing energy sector of Turkey, so we need to get our local resources, renewable resources, resources like water, wind, sun, geothermal, every resource as quickly as possible, and we need to make these investments as fast as possible. I'm not going to give you a name, but I'm getting it off the news. Now, if we produce it, we have to deliver it, we have to distribute it, and if we distribute it, we have to use it. Our village brothers threw the servants into the stream......... I look under the news, so why did they throw them into the creek? Those who went to plant the pole of the power line met the reaction of our villagers and found themselves in the stream... Guys, why are we doing this transmission line? We're doing what any member of parliament needs in any province, in order to meet Turkey's growing need. Now, if I can't get this transmission line through our citizen's field, if I can't get that 10 square feet there, if I can't deliver it, then there's a big mistake. Look, there are times when we pass through that beautiful vegetation, the strawberry blanket, about natural gas pipelines. Friends are reporting to them, and we say to them, "Can we change routes, or does geography allow it?" We do it where he permits, and we don't do it where he doesn't allow it. Today, from Thrace to Dilovah, Turkey has a growth rate of around four times the average growth rate, which is growing four times as fast as its average growth rate. Now, we need to take the transmission there. Look, we want a place in Ataşehir, where there will be a financial center in Ataşehir, where the floors will rise. We've seen this before, and we're preparing for publicization two years ago. Today, there is no place for us to pass through Dilovasi and reach Istanbul and arrive from Gemlik. We're going under the Canakkale Strait. If I don't get up here and make this transmission line, I can't find my way home. So we're going to help each other, and we're definitely going to contribute to the development and growth of Turkey. Now, what do we want to do about supply security? First of all, all of our local coals that we detected and about 14 billion tons of coal should be available by 2023. I'm not saying it's all finished, it's going to be used, it's going to be evaluated for 30 years, it's going to be spent for 40 years. Dear friends, Afshin-Elbia, Iconia Karapınar, Eskişehir Alpu, Soma, Çanakkale and many of our provinces need to become energy. Look, there's coal technology with fluid deposits, 20 percent more expensive around 22. We made a decision, and we said, "Let it be a little more expensive, but let it be environmentally sensitive, so that we can be able to do it with the environment." One goes up to $100, one goes up to $120. We're perfectly capable of putting it on our terms, and it's about to be done environmentally. What else are we gonna do? He asked for concrete steps, my friends. In 2023, we predict that the first two units will be taken into operation from Russia and Japan's 1st unit, as well. This means, dear friends, that we will import less natural gas at $7.2 billion -- today's current prices. That's a good thing. So hopefully we'll make it happen. We're going to do it from natural gas storage until we reach the wind. A comment has been made, and I agree with that comment: the wind does not end with the wind. Yeah, the wind doesn't work because the main base isn't the wind that generates loads. You can't say that if the wind blows in a country's energy management, I produce electricity, and if it doesn't, I don't produce electricity. So we have to get to the bottom of coal plants, nuclear plants, natural gas plants, solar plants that produce electricity when the sun opens, structures that are powered by the wind when the wind blows, and in the same way, we have to get to the times when all that geothermal steam is being used. Dear friends, we're up to 330 megawatts in geothermal. It's an important number that shouldn't be underestimated, because it's geothermal. These are the values we have under the ground. Energy is as important as mining and underground resources, of course. In the state, as I've always said, we have to build all of our structures, the environment, the plant, the sea, the beach, the natural beings, each and every one of their cultural beings. So, I have to say, some of our work has slowed down. Look, I have to tell you, some forest leave needs to be treated more carefully. I have to say, we should not be indifferent to criticisms made in some small HESEs. Some of the -- if you'll excuse me -- some of the vulgar work, some of our contractors' hard work, I have to stress that it's not acceptable. But each one of them is a culture. If we agree... for example, as of last month, the concept of the pre-license that we put into the law, which we now put into practice, with your tensibi, with your approval, has come into effect. First of all, an employer will no longer be able to carry the license of a businessman for 30 years. He's got stuff to do in the first six months, he's got stuff to do in the first year, and when he doesn't, his license will be revoked, which doesn't mean a license anyway. Let's hope we make each one of these happen step by step. Dear friends, let us take every one of our local resources into action within reasonable measure. Look, in winter conditions, we see countries with the hardest moments of business, and we have to be able to substitute that with our local resources. So, hopefully, we'll have every one of our geothermal resources. For that, of course, we have to do it at appropriate prices. Our friends have put criticism on electricity prices. Friends, Turkey currently holds the rotating presidency of the International Energy Agency. In case you're proud of it. He will chair 28 OECD countries for two years. Look, there's only one data used that we call Eurostat, and the International Energy Agency gets one of these. Now I can give them to my friends who want them. In electricity housing -- we call it -- taxes are high -- and after Bulgaria and Lithuania, I say Turkey is the country that sells the cheapest electricity among 28 European Union member states, along with today's current currency prices. I hope I can pass that on to you from my records. For industry, after Finland, Turkey is second in line. Look, I'll point out that we're not the cheapest country in 28 European Union countries, but we're the cheapest ones selling natural gas. I'm using a very clear statement, and we can easily get the prices after Romania after the final parite, including taxes on the dwelling. So, what did we do for the minimum wage, so what did we do for 11 years? And just to be clear, guys, without going into too many technical details, we've created almost twice as much buying power. We've been able to get the same amount of natural gas, the same amount of kilowatt-hour electricity, twice as much. Dear friends, look, today we're predicting a private sector logic under government control and government supervision. We can't leave the private sector secularly. He gave an example from Osmangazi. That's right, they couldn't fulfill some of their achievements. We can't be indifferent to it. It's been privatized for $475 million. Right now, the board of trustees is running it. Until when? Until we find the new owner. They know very well that if there are 21 distribution companies that are similar, we'll do the same thing to them. There will be no privatised distribution companies left in both electricity and natural gas. Now, dear friends, I always say, 11 years ago, when we came to power, a 20-year-old facility is now 31 years old. We've spent over a billion dollars on their rehabilitation so far, and we're still spending it because there's always something we have to pay attention to about their chimney gas analysis. Another misunderstanding is that Nabucco is dead, thrown away, where were you? Dear friends, you can only speak of this when discussing the issue of an Austrian gas supply, as an Austrian official because...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0247par0127	What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0128	What do you mean, right away, it means Nabucco is a line in Baumgarten that goes all the way to Austria? Turkey is concerned with the passage of 1,800km of lines through Turkey. We strive to provide natural gas for European Union member states, but first we think of our country. Friends, it is not our concern that the name of the project is either Nabucco (,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,....,......................................................... a name of the name...........,....... a name of the name of the name of the name of the name of the name of the project..
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0248par0130	Mr. Secretary, tell me if 35m euros is gone or not.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0131	The part that concerns us is whether the 1,800km line has passed through Turkey. This line passes through Turkey, my friends.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0249par0132	You said "Austurian" and that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0133	Is this line going through Austria? They don't pass through Austria. Why didn't you have Nabucco? If you say ▪, you're talking about Austria's rights. I'm saying...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0249par0134	So, we worked for the Austrians for ten years?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0135	No, you're not working with the Austrians.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0250par0136	Did you spend 35m euros, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0137	I said it at the beginning, there may be some misunderstandings, and that's what I say when you get it wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0251par0138	What more can you say?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0139	Dear friends, I haven't used a word when you're talking, and I advise you the same.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0251par0140	Did we say "Austrian" to you? Did we insult you like that?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0141	You know very well that's not an insult. Again, I say this is only expressed when talking about the natural gas rights of an Austrian. What happened today with the TANAP? Is it the north of Europe or the south of Europe? Dear friends, the last place we are now is to go north or south of Europe, and it is important for us to pass through Turkey. From Azerbaijan, the gas from the Shahdeniz-2 is now going south to Europe with the TAP Project. So it goes to Switzerland through Georgia, Turkey, Greece and Italy. Now, why didn't he go to Romania, Hungary and Austria through Bulgaria? The answer to that is, why did Turkey throw this Nabucco case away? The answer is different. I'm just saying Turkey's got what it takes, guys. The 1.8 million tonnes of pipelines will be provided in agreements, contracts, and the same employment will be created in the same way. Our stake in Nabucco is 17.8 per cent, and hopefully our shares in TANAP will increase further next week. Turkey is the winning country here, so we don't hang out with names. And I have to be clear that this is a misunderstanding. Dear friends, now that I've noticed during the talks, did you make it? The company A built it. It was called B. Well, isn't that better? Isn't it better if you're using every part of the public budget without using public budget, in justice, in education, in safety?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0252par0145	Mr. Secretary, you refuse to accept the debt and accept the investment!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0146	We, my friends, are paying attention to this today...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0252par0147	When it comes to accepting a private sector debt, you tell us what, but when you invest it, you say it's our investment.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0148	In Turkey, we run a liberalised, liberalised and changing country with private sector dynamics. We need someone to tell us how to do a job, not how it's not how it's supposed to be done. So, we're gonna keep doing this. What happened in Iraq, in northern Iraq, and in central Iraq? Dear friends, our brothers in Baghdad have invited us, and they said, "We will not export this gas without the approval of the government of central Iraq, Baghdad. Can you tell us at the press conference here?" We said, "No, we don't say that because that's not what we do. They said, "Well, what is it you do?" We are also sought by the government of central Iraq -- I use it by choice -- in the statement of the government of Iraq. We said, "If you accept this, we will come." And they said, "Come. Each of these has correspondence" -- we went to Baghdad. Mr. Citystani and I have been sitting in peace with the Deputy Prime Minister, trying to figure out what we need to agree on, what we need to do. I said, "Dear brothers, look, I'm here to tell all my fellow congressmans this clearly. Four-four-and-a-half years ago, there was a series of tenders in central Iraq, where 35 world giant firms were invited, not one. TPAO went into this with the consortium member.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0253par0150	He couldn't get into group A, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0151	That's right. Because TPAO was unable to remove it alone, he entered with the consortium members. 25 billion dollars in business, four jobs, $5.5 billion in his own share, and he's going along with it. Later, in a $235 million job, the Central Government of Iraq said: "You won this tender, but we are not giving it to you." We said: "We respect this decision of our brothers." Our question was: "Let us know if there is any other tender you don't want to give."
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0254par0153	Is that a good thing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0154	Friends, now, look, when Iraq is pumping 2.7 million barrels of oil out of the oil, four and a half years ago, it's now producing 2.5 million barrels, despite all these tenders. There's something missing. Now, Iraq -- in its current state, with a lot of explosions that we don't want to see day after day -- is about 100 billion dollars a year in revenue. Turkey has -- I'm just saying -- 60 billion dollars imports, $8 billion exports, $52 billion in net imports. So there's a 150 billion-dollar difference between Turkey and Iraq as it is, but we propose that Iraq normalize and triple its income, along with all the other jobs. So an Iraq with $300 billion in revenues will be rebuilt within three years by a trillion dollars to the north to the south. This is Iraq, which pays Kuwait $38 billion in compensation because Saddam was there for four days. Is he receiving a war compensation? No, the war is not being compensated, and even some of it is being compensated.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0255par0156	We call it the exploitation of imperialism, the exploitation of the oppressed peoples of imperialism.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0157	We talked about all of this openly, and we said, "You Iraqi brothers, there are two basic ways to normalize Iraq. One: oil lines from Basra to the world market. Another is Turkey, which has safe political stability. Turkey has 1.5 million barrels per day. So, how much of this is being used? Currently, 400,000 barrels are being used, and our agreement with Iraq is this, my friends, over the past three years. If Iraq can't fill the half capacity of this crude oil Kerkuk-Egg Pipeline, it's as if we've filled its half capacity. Now, I say, brothers of Iraq, we'll take from you the money of 750 thousand barrels. Come and get this for 750 thousand barrels, and at least don't pay extra. Turkey will get it anyway, Turkey doesn't lose any income, but you have serious damage. And the last thing we're saying is, since the whole of Iraq is that, according to the Constitution of Iraq, the north, the south, the east, the west doesn't matter, and so does the oil coming out of the north, and the oil coming out of the Persian people, it needs to be known that each one belongs to the entire Iraqi people. And they suggested to us: "Can you present oils from Basra to the world markets through Turkey?" • This was repeated in our last meeting in Baghdad, Mr. Luaib said, and so did Mr. Kentstani. They had a 400km gap, yeah, that's what we thought we'd do. Whether we do it alone, do it with you, or we find a third partner, we do it with them. Why? For the transfer of oil from Basra. Look, it's not just Northern Iraq. Now, what we're saying is that 300,000 barrels of oil can be transferred from Iraq. That's 700,70,000 barrels. I mean, they're already paying for it, they're going to pay for it, they're going to pay for it, they're going to make the oil flow out of it. Let me sum up my final statement: We told our Iraqi brothers that if you want to be involved with a threesome mechanism, we can talk about this agreement, the contract, each one, the agreement with Central Iraq, each of the agreements with Northern Iraq. And our offer was that you've shared the absence so far, we offer to share the presence. You've grown troubled by sharing the absence, and we want to increase your prosperity by sharing the presence.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0256par0160	These don't mean anything in international relations.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0257par0161	Have you finally convinced the Iraqi Central Administration, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0162	We told them all about it, and they said, "Yes, we have our sensitivities." We said, "Let us know your sensibilities." These are their sensibilities, my friends. I may not always be able to say that.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0257par0163	Don't interfere in our internal affairs. Says Maliki, Mr. Secretary. So we went and talked to Maliki.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0164	They said: "How many barrels of oil will there be to pass through there?" We said: "We are responsible for it within the borders of Turkey, and those whom you will appoint, those who will be appointed by SOMO Petroleum, we will entertain them for three hundred and sixty-five days, and they will look at it every day. Let them measure these amounts and report daily to the central government of Iraq, Baghdad. Well, let's say we agree on that. And then? Then it's all about the disbursement. Dear friends, now, every one of us has a certain sense of nationalism, a policy that each of us thinks about his country without saying, "Power opposition." We wanted them in a public bank in Turkey because the turnovers are 8-10 billion years old. So where's he been kept so far? It is kept in U.S. banks. We respect that, but it's an oil deal that goes over Turkey, and we've submitted our offer. There have been very warm ministers, and in our contracts, we have compiled such a clause. They told us: "Well, will you obey the UN decision?" We said that the United Nations decisions are binding, of course we will. They said 5 percent of them cut off the war compensations from here. We have made it the same way that war compensations -- 5 per cent -- should be separated from public banks in Turkey. Now, once all sensibilities are taken into account, once all predictions are put there, it's business after that, my friends. So Turkey will use its choices in the right way, and hopefully it will continue to grow stronger as well as it has done the right thing. Well, in the following matters, I agree with all sensibilities, friends, about outside dependency. I translate these as a contribution to Turkey's local resources, which are used in any foreign-addicted sentences. So, what are we supposed to do?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0258par0167	Why have you waited 11 years?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0168	What did we do for 11 years, guys?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0258par0169	Why did you wait 11 years, Mr. Secretary? And when the coal was not enough with him, ye tied it to the natural gas, and waited eleven years, and now ye return to the coal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0170	Let me do something like this for you right now. Turkey currently has a small-sized power plant, which is close to 900 m. Dear friends, do you have any sense today that the United States of America has acquired 46 percent of the coal? There's no such perception, is there? We see beautiful wind plants, we see beautiful solar voltage batteries, but as of today, 46 percent of them come from coal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0258par0171	We told you 11 years ago, where were you then, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0172	There's no need to be naive.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0259par0173	That's what we said. Then why did you turn to natural gas, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0174	We should be able to use our native coals as much as possible. So far, it has to do with all these transactions in Afshin-Elbia...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0260par0175	Which one has the chimney gas treatment plant. You couldn't build a chimney gas treatment plant in a thermal plant. You're cheating on a child, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0261par0176	Eleven years you've neglected all the thermal power plants.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0177	Look, I'm glad to hear you say that you support the local coal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0261par0178	You haven't made the slightest investment in thermal power plants, and you're talking about fluid bed.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0179	Maybe we have a lot to talk about in the QA section right now.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0261par0180	Eleven years ago, there was fluid bed technology in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0246par0181	I'd like to thank you again for your contribution to all of this so far. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0262par0184	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0263par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0262par0186	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0263par0187	In his speech, he referred to OECD countries as 28 countries, but in 34 countries, he said that Turkey is the cheapest 2th country for the price of electricity, and he misled the Parliament. We say it's the most expensive. Please let me explain.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0264par0188	People will appreciate the public opinion whether you're telling the truth or the Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0262par0189	From your position, please, Mr. Akar, let me fulfill your request for correction.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0265par0190	What am I supposed to do? Is the congressman going to correct what the minister said? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0264par0191	People are going to appreciate that, so they're going to fix everything...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0265par0192	Can I correct what you're saying?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0266par0193	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0267par0194	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have just said that electricity prices in Turkey are the cheapest of 28 OECD countries.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0265par0195	Mr. President, everyone corrects their own words and can't correct someone else's. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0267par0196	Look, Energy Report 2012. Here are some of the people who prepare the energy report from TKI General Directorate, the General Directorate of EUAS, from TMMOB, mechanical engineers, from the ITU Rectorship, and many valuable scientists who know electricity very well. Their report shows that electricity prices are higher than Turkey, except for the United States, including taxes. Even in Mexico, electricity prices are no more expensive than we are, my friends. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, where did he get these electric prices, but I don't know if I can...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0268par0198	Where did you get it?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0267par0199	That's what we got from this report, these electric prices.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0269par0200	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0267par0201	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0269par0203	Yes, Mr. Tanal, what is your request?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0271par0204	Is he going to fix it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0205	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to waste your time at this hour, but...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0271par0206	There is no such procedure, Mr. President, please!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0207	Now, the question is, Mr. Secretary, I don't know if it was a slip of the tongue or if it was conscious, but when I insisted on saying it, I felt the need to say something.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0272par0208	What will Mr. Mahmut fix, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0271par0209	Mr. President, there is no such procedure!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0210	He said that 73 per cent of the district of Suruç, Şanlıurfa Province, are using illegal electricity...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0272par0211	Now that they're asking questions, they're asking questions. Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0212	But we're going to explain this to the person whose texture, structure, structure, is intact, and we're not going to tell the person whose tissue, structure, is not intact.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0273par0213	I didn't say it wasn't solid, don't twist it!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0272par0214	Mr. President, why did he ask for a word?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0215	That's illegal...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0272par0216	What did he want to talk about, Mr. President? Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0270par0217	My country means contempt for its people. At the same time, it is incompatible with human dignity. It's an insult to our poor citizen.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0218	Mr. Tanal, we understand your point.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0272par0219	Mr. Tanal is insulting, insulting by saying so, Mr. Secretary didn't say so.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0220	Please remain calm, please, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0275par0221	How can we calm down, Mr. President? What do you run the House on?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0222	Please.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0276par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0224	Each member of parliament has a request to make a statement, a request to correct it, and our internal charter allows it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0277par0225	What clause, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0226	Please, excuse me, take a look, please.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0278par0227	Mr. President, everyone corrects their own word, can't correct someone else's. Is that a thing? How can I correct you? No way!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0228	Mr. Kaçir, please, you're very welcome. Okay, now we'll look at the transcripts, or the Minister will fix it again.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0279par0230	Mr. President, may I have the floor, sir?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0274par0231	Minister of Justice Sadullah Ergin will speak now. Here you go, Mr. Ergin. Your time is thirty-three minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0235	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have been promised to provide information to the General Assembly on the 2014 Justice Department budget. At the beginning of my words, I would like to start by saying that this year, the 2014 budget is the largest budget that has been earmarked to the Ministry of Justice in the last 30 years. In this respect, I begin by thanking our government for its sacrifice to improve justice services, and thirty years later, it reached a budget of 1.72. Mr. President, I'd like to thank my fellow lawmakers, who have contributed to the evaluation of their groups and individuals regarding the matter of the judiciary. We have not yet avoided sharing all issues of our justice system with an open heart, either in budget negotiations or on other grounds. We wish our parliament and our public to be aware of the problems, the progress and plans we have made. In this way, it will be possible to fully understand the process of change today and in the future, and to express clearly what we are trying to do. We've always tried to make it clear what our intentions are, what our intentions are, what we're trying to achieve, in the nature of our democratic consciousness. I'd like to share with you today what we've come to, what we've come to on the basis of budget negotiations. Once again, I would like to say that our goal is to bring a functioning system of justice into our country, to implement universally accepted principles of democratic law state, to extend freedoms, and as a result, to allow our people to live in security and prosperity. A democracy based on respect for human rights and the rule of law is the basis of modern civilization. So, for all of this, our goal has always been to move the bar of justice and freedom higher. I also believe that each section should develop a common approach to the issue, free of prejudice. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, our justice system is changing its shell by making significant progress in recent years. There have been significant developments in providing a good legislation infrastructure, strengthening human resources, and renovating technical and physical infrastructure. Another dimension of change has created mental infrastructure. Our efforts to have a judicial system that is beginning to respond to the expectations of the society demanding better justice services in the developing Turkey have begun to yield results. For today, our justice system has come to a service-oriented understanding. We're on our way to the justice system, which is based on respect for human rights and focused on solutions. As we go along this path, the policies that we've established are taking place one step at a time. Our human resources approach is projects that include increasing the number of judges, prosecutors and staff and the development of education services and have significant results. Another area of parallel change to human resources is our organizational structure. The first-degree courts and measures we've taken to strengthen the higher judicial body are from this sentence. Another important development is the changes in our legislation infrastructure. The renovation of the basic legislation has been significantly completed. In addition, judicial packages prepared to accelerate the judiciary and develop human rights practices have been legalized. Now, in the process, the application is followed by the necessary interventions for efficiency and improvement. Because the up-to-date of the area of legislation brings with it a dynamic approach. Another area we care about has been infrastructure services. In this scope, new palaces of justice have risen and continue to rise throughout our country. An important change in infrastructure has occurred in our IT infrastructure. Today, all judicial or administrative transactions can be carried out through the IT system in judicial units. In addition, important steps have been taken to modernise our penal and execution institutions. On the other hand, the idea of execution has been multidimensional. An example of this multidimensional practice, such as controlled freedom, judicial control and the individualized execution methods developed under parole, and electronic handcuffs. We are determined to eliminate all complaints about human rights violations in our country. Everyone will see that we've taken important steps to do so when they think about the painful experiences of the past. One of the things we're paying attention to when we're making amendments to our justice system is the end of human rights violations. Apart from these studies, new policies are being implemented in many areas. These new policies meet in many areas, such as alternative conflict solutions, legal aid, protective law, judicial time management, development of the victim's rights, court administration system. More than my next detail, perhaps our most important achievement is that our system's resolution capacity has increased. All justice institutions are constantly searching for better. At this point, all of our judicial institutions, especially our Ministry, have taken serious steps towards strategic planning. In 2014, our ministry is preparing a new strategic plan for what it will do in the next five years. I'd like to share my belief that this time of plan will be a success. Dear friends, one of the things we've been working so hard on for the past three years is human rights. Fortunately, there have been significant distances and concrete developments. In our view, problems should be resolved in alternative ways that are created within the country without the need to move to international institutions. On this road, institutional construction was first discussed. The establishment of the Office of Human Rights is the first step in this area. For the first time through this institutional organisation, the processes of the European Court of Human Rights have been tabled, and solutions have been discussed. All these studies were conducted in consultation with the ECHM at every stage. As a result of these studies, the solutions began to take place one by one. The creation of the Human Rights Compensation Commission is an important step in this area. The Commission is now being modeled by other countries. With the constitutional amendment adopted on September 12, 2010, the right to individual application to the Constitutional Court, which is part of our system, and the activities of the Public Control Agency have been other areas that strengthen our standards for protecting human rights. As the results of both applications come to the agenda of our public, the value of the work will be much better understood. The improvements we've brought in the past process with the amendments to the legislation we've made, particularly the package of judicial reforms, are also of great importance. According to statistics published by the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey ranked second in the most complaints among the European Council member states, but as of today, Turkey has been relegated from the 2nd country that has been most complained to the 5th country. Clearly, the picture will get better in the coming days.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0281par0251	Of how many countries are we five, Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0252	I've expressed it, 47 council members have been regressed from the second country to the fifth, but this trend of decline will continue. All of our work by declaring mobilisation has already begun to be seen as a model for many countries by the Council of Europe and the Court of Strasbourg. During our visit to Strasbourg in November, this was clearly expressed in front of the ambassadors of other countries. On the other hand, the Turkish version of the European Court of Human Rights database HUDOC (HUDOC) has been presented to the users' benefit by collaborating with our Ministry of Turkish and the European Court of Human Rights. This innovation is the first in the history of the ECHR for the Council of Europe to publish in other languages than English and French. The European Council of Europe, which is 47 members, and the Court of the Council of Ministers, has been the third language published outside English and French in the ECHM.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0282par0254	It's a lot of cases.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0255	I guess the English and the French are both very much on the air with those two languages. My fellow lawmakers, the most important part of our international relations is that they form relations with the European Union. Our ministry has seen its commitments to the European Union as a permanent, key priority within the framework of its accession talks. The European Union has carried out every precaution in its process of adapting to its acquish. The earlier defensive and introverted policy has been abandoned and taken decisive steps. In recent years, our country has significantly fulfilled its role in the field of justice in the integration process. I have to express here the positive contribution of this process to our reform efforts. Progress reports are important instruments for the implementation of accession talks. The point of study is based on these. It is not possible to say that all of the evaluations are right or wrong. In every progress report in our time, there have been extensive positive developments. We are even happier that our reform efforts are understood in the international arena. Critics are being carefully examined, and we endeavor to contribute to the removal of these criticisms through our studies. The 2013 progress report was also discussed in this minor. In the report, we have been criticised, but there have been many positive developments in the judiciary. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, it is of great importance to review all aspects of our legislation, as well as to move society further along with the changing needs of the day. With the work of our governments, the legislation of our justice system has been reformed in accordance with the legal state and democracy of our age and the principles of human rights. In this context, all of our basic laws have been changed over the last decade. The Turkish Trade Law, the Law on Laws of Laws and Debts were the last of our fundamental laws to be changed. With the reform of the judiciary and the package of democratisation that has recently entered our agenda, the key stones have been laid on the way to a better justice system. Many new practices and institutions have been introduced to our country, especially with amendments to the Constitution. Mr. President, dear friends, one of the things we've accomplished in the field of justice services is the subject of human resources. In 2002, the number of judges was 7.5, and as of today it rose to 11.1. As of today, the number of prosecutors was 4.5 per 100,000, while the number of prosecutors rose to 6.2. And while these increases are pleasing, they are inadequate, I'm expressing that, too. Our ministry is also making great efforts to improve the efficiency of education. For example, in developed countries, our Justice Academy, an important institutional actor in the field of justice, has been established within the last decade and brought to its institutionalised structure today. In recent years, the justice department has also recorded one of the most important developments in the past few years in an increase in the number of personnel. The increase in this area is more than 100 per cent compared to 2002. With purchases in the coming years, the need will be fully satisfied. In addition, while law enforcement has not previously been employed in most areas, such as sociologists, psychologists, pedagogists, and social workers, our professional groups have also begun to employ. The effectiveness of our executive and bankruptcy system also constitutes one of our important areas of work. To this end, our Ministry has established an office that will only handle operations and bankruptcy, and this unit is working towards boosting the efficiency of the execution and bankruptcy system. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have long been unscheduled to resolve the infrastructure problems of our judicial system. One of the infrastructure studies that we've taken a significant distance from in this area is the physical infrastructure that our judicial agencies serve. In this regard, more than 170 palaces of justice have been put into service in Turkey, and new ones are being built now. Again, the development of the IT system is extremely important. We have made significant distances by adding the latest audio and video IT system, SEGBIS. SEGBIS also eliminates a number of mandatory transfers from courts to courthouses, prisons to courthouses, providing video statements to courthouses, opportunities to make statements. Dear friends, important work has been done to overcome the capacity problem through the construction of a modern and secure criminal execution institution. In addition to the courthouse palaces we've built, our execution institutions are not only subject to capacity enhancement. We have studied the current state of our penal execution institutions in Turkey and have shut down 235 penal institutions, which are not according to standards, and instead have been built in the form of the campus of more than 80 execution institutions. In the coming process, non-compliant criminal execution institutions will continue to be closed. I'm stressing that it's not right to only perceive the conversion of these penal institutions as the production of new prisons. These institutions are built to replace our current criminal execution institution capacity with institutions that fit the modern understanding of the day, where human punishments can be executed, and to replace it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share with you from the developments in our country, especially the issues we have recorded in the field of justice. Our valued deputies, who expressed their views and criticism here, have had criticisms on different issues. Of course, we'll be able to benefit from these criticisms. However, I would like to share with you some of the work so far, some of the important distances Turkey has traveled. One of them is the number of prisoners and prisoners in our execution institutions. Dear friends, the prisoner rate in our criminal execution institutions in Turkey has now dropped three points from the European Union averages.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0268	Come on, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0269	I'm making it very clear.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0270	You've returned the prisoners to another category, reduced them to European standards within a year, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0271	I'll say it separately. And I'm going to say both of those things.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0272	What kind of an insincere number is that?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0273	It's both. I'll share these graphs with you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0274	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0275	Dear friends, 49 of every 100 people who were in prisons in 2006 have been arrested and 51 have been convicted. In 2001, 50.4 of every 100 people were arrested, fewer were convicted, more than half were arrested. Now, what we've come up with today -- you see the rate of prisoners down here -- is a percentage of...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0276	Mr. Secretary, what list did you put prisoners on when you gave them the same year?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0277	I'll say that, too. I've made my point, if you'll bear with me...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0278	In those years, in those years, when you call it 51 percent, which side are the prisoners on?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0279	I said I'd express it if you were patient, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0280	Say that with me and we'll know.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0281	Dear friends, as of today, 19.7 of every 100 people in prisons are arrested and the rest are convicted. The EU average is 23.5%. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, let's come to the figures that are included in those who are under arrest, as stated by my esteemed congressman. In my painting -- this is a report based on the criteria used by the European Court of Human Rights and our Supreme Court -- the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the defendant is now a prisoner.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0283par0284	Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you if they were included in 2002.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0285	The same is true of our Supreme Court. Now, I'm coming, judge where the prisoners are in it. The number of prisoners convicted in 2001 is 60.4 per cent. In 2006, the proportion of those who were with the prisoners was 62.5. So the proportion of prisoners who are arrested and convicted is 62.5 of each hundred people in 2006. As of today, even if we include convicted prisoners, the rate is 28.2 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0284par0287	How much is the EU, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0288	That's from 62.5% to 28 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0285par0290	Mr. Secretary, come on!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0291	Dear friends, I'm going to share these graphics with our valued deputies. Let's face it, in Turkey...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0286par0292	Mr. Secretary, how many prisoners and prisoners were there in 2002, in total, how many prisoners and prisoners are there now?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0293	I'll come to him, I'll give him that too. A friend of ours mentioned it, and it was said that in 2002 you took 59,000 people... I'll tell you this: 59,000 is the number after a pardon.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0287par0294	57,000.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0295	57,000, 59,000, they're all graphed here. 57 grand the year before. Dear friends, in 1999 -- never mind 2002 -- the number of prisoners in Turkey's prisons is 72,417.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0288par0297	How much is it now?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0298	After that, amnesty has been issued, that number has gone down...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0289par0299	Well, there's been an amnesty, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0300	But right after the pardons, there'll be a round-up to the old number.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0289par0301	Mr. Secretary, is there a pardon in the end? Is it down to that number?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0302	As of today, give me 144. Yes, I've made that very clear.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0290par0303	How many in 2003?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0304	Dear friends, Turkey has come a very important distance as far as the prisoner-indicted rate in prisons... (AK PARTI and CHP rows). The European Court of Human Rights and the European Commission have made it very clear in their progress reports. There have been a lot of different assessments, criticisms from this bench. I followed them carefully. See, in front of the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey was the 2nd most complained country, we had 16,900 files in Strasbourg Court. As of today, Turkey's case in Strasbourg Court has been reduced from 16,900 to 11,200, and Turkey has been reduced from the 2nd to the 5th from the 2nd to the 5th. This setback, this improvement in front of the European Court of Human Rights, will continue after this. Dear friends, we've taken a lot of precautions. One: We quickly changed the laws that allowed us to violate our position. In the fourth judicial package we have made together in this Parliament, we have made significant changes that have eliminated the grounds for the violations made by the European Court of Human Rights. As a result, we have provided a criteria for judges and prosecutors' compliance with the ECHR proceedings and their promotions, and we have translated the Court of Human Rights into Turkish and opened them to the implementation of our judges, our prosecutors, and we have opened them up. We sent our judges and prosecutors to the Strasbourg Court, different centers of the world, to work to see human rights practices in place. These were very important studies, and now we're getting the results of these studies, and if you go to Strasbourg today, either in the Council of Europe or in the Council of Europe...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0291par0307	Mr. Secretary, all prisons are three times the capacity of prisoners and prisoners, three times the amount. 900 people remain in the prison of 300 people...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0308	...and the European Court of Human Rights mentions the model of Turkey. In terms of performance in the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey has begun to set an example for other Council member states. That shouldn't bother you. We need to further encourage these developments. See, after the last legal work we did in Parliament, we established the Compensation Commission, and I want to share with you the results that came out here: 4.493 files applied to this commission, and soon these files were settled. In a hundred and two days, he's being executed in twelve or thirteen days, key surrender, conflict is concluded in a hundred and fifteen days. Our complainant citizen meets with the right to receive it in three and a half months; Turkey is satisfied, not violating; Turkey resolves the problem by agreeing with its citizen; the Court of Human Rights is pleased, reducing its workload. So we did a very good job. The ECHR won, Turkey won, our citizen won. The main thing was to take steps to prevent these violations from happening, which we did with you. Now, each of our friends made some evaluations from his own window. But in these evaluations, the graphics I've just shared with you have been taken from the statistics website of the London-based University of Essex. It's not the statistics we keep. These are the data from the University of Essex, which follows all of Europe and the world, following the prison practices; this is one. Second, the improvements in our performance in the European Court of Human Rights are evident. Three, let's take a look at the European Commission's 2013 Turkey Progress Report. This report has criticism of Turkey's judicial system. We are carefully reviewing these criticisms, and we endeavor to take sensitive steps that Turkey should take. It's not like we've finished everything, we're aware of our shortcomings, and we're taking important steps to compensate for those shortcomings. But, dear friends, in this report, the European Commission has set a broader place on the issue of justice than ever before, and has ranked positive developments in a row. I'd like to share a few of these with you. See how the European Court of Human Rights sees Turkey; how Essex sees London; how Turkey sees Turkey; or how the European Commission sees the developments in Turkey in Brussels; I'm getting them from within.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0292par0314	He doesn't see well, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0315	The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors continued to implement the Strategic Plan 2012-2016.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0293par0316	Mr. Secretary, how many people have died in prison in ten years, how many have committed suicides?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0317	The HSYK has co-operated with Turkey's Justice Academy and other judicial bodies, encouraging numerous judges and prosecutors from all over the country to study new legislation, human rights and judicial ethics. Another find: The HSYK has co-operated with the Ministry of Justice and has encouraged the translation and publication of European Court of Human Rights decisions and has been notified of the violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. Again, the HSYK held legal consultations that brought first-level courts and high court members together to ensure the integrity and consistency of the legal decisions in the implementation. As a result, the predictability and transparency of HSYK decisions have been further strengthened. As part of efforts to inform the public on the issues of the HSYK judiciary, the judge and prosecutors appointed press spokesmen and gave them trainings. In this way, many positive developments in the Constitutional Court's individual applications, positive developments in the Human Rights Court, lowering the prison rate have been very clear in the progress reports of the European Union. My fellow lawmakers, I will try to give you some answers to the findings of my fellow lawmakers, who have taken the liberty of taking a stand on some concrete issues. Here, a valuable member of our parliament voiced my statements on a television program, facing the solution process. A justice minister for the process of solving legal states: If this is a crime, will I commit it? asked a question. Of course, it's a subject that's been broken from its context over and over again. I'd like to share with you the incident, which is that in a television show, a lot of people have been hurt -- these are my statements -- a lot of blood. We've been through a process that sets fire to every person's heart. Let's see the big picture. When I say, the producer has worries. If a prosecutor comes forward and sues you, you'll be in trouble. He's asking me questions. And I say, "Why are you trying to bring peace to Turkey when a prosecutor comes out?" ▪ Will your blood ask why do you strive to quench the tears? If trying to do that is a crime, yes, that's what we're doing right now. I'm doing this job. I'm expressing what I'm saying, and the terror continues to owe its existence to the abuse of some problems. That's true, but on the other hand, there are micro-tity fields that have been created by terrorism, which we have to eliminate micro-tity fields that have been created by terrorism. I say, and if we can't do that, then we won't be able to project the people's will to govern. Our intention and our effort is to end any abuse. The main goal of this process is to stop the terrorist organization's weapons, which is to end the bloody acts of crime. What legal value may we consider as being violated by efforts to accomplish this purpose? The effort I'm talking about isn't about clearing the criminal acts of the last 30 years, it's about preventing the continuation of criminal acts. In order for a verb to constitute a crime, the material elements shown in the law must have been carried out with intent to commit a crime. I answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is the basis of our findings regarding the solution process. Other than that, our valued lawmakers have had numerous findings, but our time is not available. If you'll excuse me for saying so immediately, there have been some findings made by my fellow lawmakers here. In these findings, criticisms have been made towards practices in criminal execution institutions. We're taking advantage of these criticisms, but I'm also saying I don't find their efforts to make things any different than they are. The conditions for the execution institutions in Turkey, both in physical conditions and in the execution system, are being humanized day by day.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0294par0324	Mr. Secretary, people are lying back-to-back, meat-to-back. Please, at least be sincere about this.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0280par0325	I salute you all, and wish our budget to be a blessing.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0295par0327	Thank you, Mr. Ergin.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0294par0328	The President of the Human Rights Commission is there. I mean, the conditions have been improved. You can't say, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0296par0329	There are 1,800 people in Antalya, 1,800 in the prison of 500 people.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0295par0330	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0297par0331	Mr. President, the Minister of Justice has given us detailed figures on the prisons, the paintings, he said he'll send them to us, we're waiting for them.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0295par0332	Thank you, Mr. Ergin.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0297par0333	However, Mr. Secretary gave me the proportional and numerical information on prisoners and prisoners, and gave me much more information than I had previously received from the Ministry of Justice.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0298par0334	Like what?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0297par0335	I was arrested and convicted by the Justice Department in 2011. In the end of 2011, the total number of prisoners who were imprisoned and convicted was 128 thousand, and again, according to the Justice Department figures, 55 thousand of those 128 thousand were arrested. In other words, the proportion of prisoners in prison was 43 per cent. End of 2011, that's the number you gave me.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0298par0336	But how come it's 43 percent?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0297par0337	Look, the number you're giving me right now is 28 percent. The total proportion of prisoners, including convicts, is 28 per cent to our citizens in prison.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0298par0338	As of 2013, as of this year.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0297par0339	Sir, I mean, but the curve you're showing was something very different.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0298par0340	I'll send it to you, make your objection.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0297par0341	Sir, send it. Of course, I'd like the Minister's numbers to pass up the truth, but I didn't get that impression. If the Minister does, I'll ask for another word.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0299par0342	The rate has dropped since 2011.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0300par0343	Yes, thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0301par0345	Mr. President, now that the Minister has said his words to the solution process, his assessment of whether or not the actions and transactions were actually crimes is not accurate. I want to make a statement about him, that's one. Second, again, the European Court of Human Rights... So Abdullah Ocalan says it's a crime. I mean, I'm not saying whether the attempts are right or not, but when actions are done, it's done according to the law or not. After that, we passed the law on the Justice Commission, first the actions, then we passed the law.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0300par0347	Yes, Mr. Ozturk, it's been filed that this isn't... Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0301par0349	Now, on the contrary to what the Minister said, Abdullah Ocalan, who, by the way, had been in touch...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0300par0350	That's what you said when you talked about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0301par0352	Secondly, the compensation commission has been established, over 4,000 cases...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0302par0353	Mr. President, let them ask questions and answers.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0301par0354	...in front of the European Human Court, the Commission for Compensation has been withdrawn...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0302par0356	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0301par0357	Let's not turn the numbers around.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0303par0358	Mr. Ozturk, we're coming to your QA in five minutes. Ask your questions there, please, and I'll ask you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0304par0359	My dear President, the Minister of Justice's statement about the prisoners and the prisoners is wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0305par0360	Mr. President, are they going to consider all the statements? Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0303par0361	In the QA section, please, Congressmans...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0304par0362	Dear President, I'm finishing. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0305par0363	Get them in the system, ask questions and answers.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0303par0364	But, members of lawmakers, you say such things that you can ask questions in the field of questions and answers... please...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0304par0365	It's not a question, Mr. President, it's a correction. One, there's a statute of limitations on the release of the sentence...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0306par0367	Why does Mr. Mahmut have to fix everyone?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0304par0368	In accordance with the latest joke of Article 100 of the Penal Code, the decision to arrest you for up to two years... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Three, there's been a probationary release, all of which, more or less, reduce the number of prisoners... a pardon, more or less, covered.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0307par0371	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0308par0372	He's just begun, Mr. President, let him continue!
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0307par0373	Against you now, Bart's MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya. Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0309par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, three of our citizens died of asphyxiation in January of last week's illegal January disaster in Zonguldak. 24-year-old Ismail Altun, 53-year-old Yasar Özerdoğan and Mustafa Özalpüğan went from the province of Bartın, 54, to work for Zonguldak to provide for their families and children, to feed them, to pay their debts. None of my fellow workers were taken out of their dead bodies to work in an illegal mine, which resembles a mole's nest, which has not been taken into account. This drama isn't the first or the last, it's not the first or the last. In the last 20 years, 112 of our citizens have lost their lives in illegal furnaces. For many years, illegal coal mine activities -- men and women, children and children -- continue to be a bleeding wound to Zonguldak, and to the region -- where all work is carried out, no safety measures are taken, no engineering science and technique is even involved. Fugitive mines stand as a problem that everyone knows but no one is willing to solve or approach. That is how this system of reins continues, starting with neoliberal policies after the 1980s, as if it were an inevitable, unstoppable formation in the AKP administration. (CHP clapping in rows) Everything is forgotten until a new illegal January murder occurs. It is essential that the government conduct inspections to prevent work in places like this where there are no safety measures. Besides, the government's task is to act quickly to implement employment policies by sensing how desperate people are because of unemployment. Because desperation drives locals to work in blind wells like a house of moles, insecure and insecure, and the government watches it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The state cannot leave its unemployed to die, or starve to death in accidents, the state is responsible for the safety of its citizens above all. Although all measures have been taken in the mine legislation, if these murders stemming from complete practice and lack of supervision have become systematic, it appears that the state has not been able to perform its duty in this sense. Dear lawmakers, allowing mining activities to take place in these unscheduled, unscheduled places without engineering activities, without job safety measures, is a disregard for human life. Why is there no study in the matter of running a mine without a permit, when government and property must be blocked by the 12th Amendment of the Mining Law? Why isn't the re-opening of illegal furnaces closed on a tip? The state's only duty should not be to prepare legislation, but also to follow legislation, to oversee and provide the necessary infrastructure for it. Those who don't do enough of these audits and allow these illegal furnaces to be activated can't rule out the conscientious and legal responsibility for the deaths we consider murder. Unless the government fulfills the need to be a state, such illegal furnace disasters will continue to happen. As I finish my words here, I wish God's mercy to those who have lost their lives, my condolences to their relatives, and I demand that the authorities fulfill their responsibilities. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0310par0386	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. We'll give the MPs ten minutes of 20 minutes. First of all, Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0311par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Attorney General. Mr. Secretary, I've been informed that you've nationalized nearly 400 acres of land in Tekirdağ Province, Çoran Province. Are you planning to build a courthouse complex where you've made it public, or are you going to build a prison? It's a city with a very low crime rate. We Mexicans don't want imported prisoners, we don't want prisons. Will you be conducting a public study on this matter? Do you plan to grant a general amnesty, including PKK members, by March 30th elections? Besides, you've handled the solution process so far. Now that you're running for mayor, Mr. Prime Minister says that at the end of this month, I think you'll resign. If you resign and even get elected, will you be responsible for the process of resolving during your mayoral term? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0312par0394	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0313par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice. Mr. Secretary, in the profession of lawyers -- except for their private lawyers -- the problem of free lawyers' green passports is not solved. Is this about the Justice Department or the State Department? My other question is, do you have any new studies to address the conditions of the execution guard's work, the rights to self-esteem, and the lack of a gun license to carry it after retirement? And my third question is that there are serious complaints from citizens concerning the courts of Mersin Bozyaz and Çamlıya, which have been closed. Is there a new arrangement for the county courthouses you closed down? I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy. Minister, with the privilege of shipping and air travel, there are a great deal of truckers and bus drivers in the shipping and moving of goods and people, they have serious applications for tax reductions in energy. I'm assuming that doing something about it will also prevent the use of illegal diesel. Are you going to make an adjustment?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0314par0401	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0315par0403	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. I've said this problem many times before: There are three natural gas distribution companies in Hobeleli. The largest of these has become IZGAZ special, as you know, but natural gas investments are not being made by Izmit and the central district of Balören, Ambarcı, Baharburun, Sapakpınar, Karaabdülbaki districts, despite investments made by AKP MPs and Metropolitan Mayor. Each year you will warm up with natural gas this winter. When will our people, who have been deceived, get natural gas? Is there an investment planned? In response to the question motion we gave you on the subject, these areas are not the responsibility of IZGAZ. Whose responsibility is it, and why do our citizens keep promising to invest? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0316par0406	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0317par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the Minister of Justice. Mr. Minister, you know, the judge who used the authority to judge a very important element of sovereignty, our prosecutors' salaries have been literally reduced by 25 per cent from 2006 to today. At the same time, there was a serious wage difference between members of the Constitutional Court and members of the Supreme Court, even the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. All our colleagues look forward to it. Do you have any work in that direction? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0318par0412	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0319par0414	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister of Justice said he has the right to an individual complaint when he's having a tidy conversation. And therefore, a lot of lawmakers who looked like precedents were released from prison, joined us, came to parliament, what will happen to our elected MP, Engin Alan? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0320par0417	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0321par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. This question will be made to the Minister of Justice: Kastamon, my constituency district, has already been conducted by your institutional authorities as part of an open prison. I want to know what the outcome of this work is. Another question: there is a demand for the wear-down compensation of the correctional guards serving under difficult circumstances. Do you have any work done on this subject? Another question to the Minister of Energy: daily fuel consumption in our country is around 500,000 barrels per day, according to official figures. The unofficial figures indicate 650,000 barrels. Approximately 150,000 barrels of illegal fuel consumption are at stake. What measures have been taken, and what works are being done? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0322par0424	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0323par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of Justice: Of course, Mr. Minister of Justice said: "We are building palaces of justice." But the trick is to distribute justice in those buildings, not palaces of justice. Everyone's complaining about justice, so what do they do about it? Second: Of course, the previous personal lawsuits against judges and prosecutors were a guarantee of basic rights and freedoms. However, this assurance was lifted, making these compensations open to the state. As the Ministry of Compensation cases that have been filed so far, how many judges have been injured as a state, and how many prosecutors have been injured? Is there a procedure for those who are unfettered and those who are not conceived? Another question: have you ever been in prison? Have you ever been searched in prison terms, in or out? Are those search conditions human? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0324par0431	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0325par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Energy: Mr. Minister, as the Prime Minister expressed in his budget presentation speech, one of the most important pencils of our current deficit is energy importing. As my friends have just said, Turkey is paying around $60 billion per year for energy imports. Imported pencils include natural gas and oil as well as stone coal. However, according to your earlier statements, Turkey has 14 billion tons of coal reserves, and only Zonguldak has 1.5 billion tons of coal reserves. In spite of all that, today, imported coal ships are approaching the Zonguldak ports, production has decreased, employment has decreased. In the 2011 elections, however, your MPs pledged to increase production and increase employment at the Turkish Stone Coal Foundation in Zonguldak, and promised TTK to buy 2,500 workers. Now, I'd like to ask you, when are you going to keep this promise made by your MPs? My second question is, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0326par0437	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0327par0439	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of Energy. Minister, my questions are very clear, and I expect very clear answers from you. Question number one: did you or did you not buy 18 million dollars worth of tires for the Turkish Coal Company? My second question: did you or did you not tender the Eskişehir Mihaluçük mine when you handed it over to KİAS? My third question is, did you or did you not pay $1.4 billion for a settlement with Azerbaijan? My last question: why can you only get two or three people a year when TKI, who runs a mining business in your ministry, needs a lot of mining technicians in companies like TTK? Hundreds of prospecting mining technicians expect good news from you. Thank you very much, my respects, if I get the answers to that.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0328par0446	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0329par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to ask our Minister, our Minister of Justice. Mr. Secretary, are you going to do something about Taylan Tanay's torture today? Second: You know the footage of the court committee sleeping in the case of Ethhem Sarısuluk, who was killed by police bullets in Ankara during the travel events, and the press. After these images of sleeping justice, has there been any action with the court board? Is it appropriate to continue with this tribunal? My third question, Mr. Secretary, is that we know you as an Antiochian and now as a candidate for the mayor of Antioch. In June, three Estonians were killed in events throughout the country and Antioch, and in order to find the perpetrators of these young people, I want to ask you what moves your Ministry has had, what actions it has had, and what work it has been. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0330par0454	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Ergin. We'll take five minutes to...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0457	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to answer it in order. First, the question of Mr. Belen is that you have nationalized 400 acres of land in Çorı district of Tekirdağ. Let me get this straight: 520 acres of land, 300 acres of it registered to the Treasury, 220 acres of it, and that's a total of 520. We're thinking of a detention center campus here. Of course, there is a necessity for both modernization of prisons, the conditions for the execution of the day, and for these investments to be made at the point where the intensity, the population, is drawn to a reasonable point. In this respect, they're not burdened by the area where they come from.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0332par0460	On the contrary, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0461	...sosososocoeconomic contributing facilities.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0332par0462	The people of Tekirdağ F-type prisons Tekirdağ are very complaining, victims.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0463	There's a study going on in that sense. Mr. Belen's second question was: 'Will you make an amnesty by 30 Martas?' he asked, if I'm not mistaken. As of right now, there's no such work in the Ministry where I'm in charge. The third question is: you were following the solution process, and after the resignation... it's not possible, it's not practical according to the Constitution, it's not possible in terms of politics; it's not possible for our fellow officers, it's going to work after us. The question of Mr. Oz is: What do you think of the green passport issue of lawyers? Of course, passport transactions and the setting of their regime here -- green passport, red passport -- are in the field of our Ministry of Interior's duty, jurisdiction.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0333par0467	Minister, we have a proposal for the law, and it's waiting on the commission.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0468	If you'll excuse me! Of course, that's under the Ministry of Interior, but there's an international dimension to green and red passports. There is no way that only Turkey can travel in one direction. The joint agreements that run this system are looking for solutions within the responsibilities Turkey has imposed on it, I'll tell you that much. Other than that, more than one friend of mine has come into contact with this question about the problems of the execution officers, so let me make an assessment of the whole thing. I've already -- I've made statements about this in the General Assembly -- the regulations for the rights of our execution officers working at the Department of Corrections are waiting on the commission for our designing the law on the external security of prisons. We're predicting that these will be evaluated within that bill. Hopefully, during those negotiations with the Justice Commission, we'll discuss what can be done about the members of the Department of Execution. He also had a question regarding the district courts in Mersin, which had been closed. At this time, Mr. Oz, there is no study for the reopening of these courts. Mr. Original Day, you have stated that from 2006 to today, judges and prosecutors have had a real reduction in their salaries.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0334par0474	26 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0475	26 percent. We don't have that method of computing, so if you'll share that computation with us, we'll take a look at it.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0334par0477	Yes, of course, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0478	Because public staff in Turkey have never really gone back in this decade on their salary. In addition, within ten years, the judge had also made arrangements to improve the situation of our prosecutors.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0334par0479	Mr. Secretary is very serious because of the tax arrangement...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0480	Of course, the judges and our prosecutors deserve a better price for their difficult and difficult work, and I have no objection to that. However, this work needs to be done at a certain rate, within the scope of budgets and with other trade groups. Mr. Secretary, after thirty years, in 30 years, the most... There's no such study at the moment. But I've already stated that such studies are not done by speaking; they are prepared, if possible, brought and pronounced. I'd like to present that as well. Mr. Halaman, MPs are being evacuated through individual application. You asked what will happen to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Engin Alan? Of course, the courts that made these evacuation decisions, we have no way of saving that kind of money. However, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Alan's attorneys have filed a motion to the Constitutional Court. According to the result of this application, the relevant court will assess the picture. That's as far as I'm concerned.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0335par0484	Mr. Secretary, are you satisfied with these decisions? Are you satisfied with Mustafa Balbay's decision to evacuate?
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0331par0485	We have opened this road together by making a constitutional amendment in this Parliament, and we are pleased by the Constitutional Court's preliminary declaration to clear the way for a number of things that are failing in Turkey. Mr. President, my time is up and I'll answer the rest in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0336par0488	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0337par0490	Mr. President, dear friends, in the last four minutes, I wanted to answer the question of our congressman who specifically requested it in the previous speech. Now, there's been a statement about the illegal furnaces. Dear friends, we've closed 2,816 stoves in eight years because it doesn't fit the requirements. And these shut-offs don't usually happen by sealing the door or anything like that, they blow dynamite and then they collapse into coal. We're using 1,344 capsules, 3,508 dynamite to stop the entire entrance to the stove, but they're still being opened and built. And I wish those who died a mercy, and I wish to express that we are sorry about it, that we share this sadness. Dear friends, we need to be clear on something. Mr. Kilicdaroglu mentioned it here, and it's just been said about electricity prices. Now, friends, in the data of both OECD and the International Energy Agency, the performance of a country in the last decade has been low in some countries, with high prices watching, prices are different. One went down to 83, 100 units in 2005, and one went up to 107. That doesn't mean it's cheaper than that. For example, Luxembourg is 183, but it doesn't mean it's cheaper than Turkey. I made a special promise to clear up this misunderstanding. And I have to say, this is not my data, but the data of Eurostat. In particular, our congressman informed us that the exact account for this Emet (Boric acid plant) has been delayed and has been overpaid at 3 million TL). Dear friends, the fact is that in 1998, the unit is tendered according to the price code, completed in 2004, temporarily accepted, and after the final acceptance in 2005, the company submits the final account to the company, which shows that in the 5th month of 2005, it is owed $1 million. The final account, including 5,000 paftas and 10,000 pages of documents, shows that the institution will receive around $2.6m -- plus VAT. This money is being collected from the company's $3.5 million about the delay, along with all the delays, which means that the company is running out of money. As the final account process was not damaged by the public, these transactions were done in the interest of the public. You also mentioned the Penta tender, a $230 million transaction. First of all, the tender is being tendered in technical and financial terms, and according to industrial facilities and Articles 62/c and 18/b. The cost of the job is about $230 million, but the most economic cost is to a company that's worth 169 million. The firm is not prohibited from tenders, it is not against the law, and it continues to concern itself. He's getting this offer by giving him the lowest interest in a similar company. The firm -- you said about the turbo generator -- performance tests are successfully completed, boilers are being done, the institution is being produced. After that, there's no definite admission to this job. The process continues, no harm is being done at that moment, and the investigators are investigating...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0338par0498	Mr. Secretary, this is the inspector of your Ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0337par0499	You asked us if we would be allowed to examine it. Yeah, we're gonna give it a warrant, but we're gonna have to decide after those investigations. That's why it's a process going on, guys. I think it's appropriate to answer the rest in writing. I'm supplying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0339par0502	Mr. Secretary, let the written answers come as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0340par0503	Thank you, Mr. Star. Now, members of lawmakers, I will have you read separately and vote on the transfer of budgets in the sixth round, respectively. I'm going to vote for the transfer of the Justice Department to the 2014 budget...
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0341par0508	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-13sit05spe0340par0509	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akar, Mr. Agha, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Ozgundüz, Mr. Star, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Hamzacebi... Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] [[Continue]] 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2012 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 E) AGENTS AND AGENTS ARE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Borborial Research Institute's Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 I submit to your votes that the Justice Department will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Justice Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,942,863,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 256,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,296,370,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 8.239.490.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Justice Department was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Justice Department Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 5.994.365.242.00 Budget Expenses 5.967.116.443.39 The grant goes to 15,617,667,61 Cancelled Fund 42,866,466.22 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 12.383.916.25 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Justice of Justice was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.41) BUILDING BUILDINGS OF CONTROL WITH PRISON AND EXECUTIONS 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association for Prisons 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 846,936,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 846,936,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 01 Taxes 4,101,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 86,851.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 733,591.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.192,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 656,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns (-) -455,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 846,936,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Association of Prisons were adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes Institution of Prisons 2012 Central Management Term (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance is 1,460.935.152.26 Budget Expenses 1,297,762.792.37 Canceled Grant 163,172.359,89 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 38,028,686.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 772,457,000.00 Net Collection 1,462.241.131.79 Ret and Returns (-) 752.216.06 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Corrections and Execution Institutions and the Employment Homes of Prisons were adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Justice Academy will take part in the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.10) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 15.284,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 15,284,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 657,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 14.462,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 165,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 15,284,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The chairmanship of the Turkish Justice Academy was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Academy of Justice shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Justice Academy Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 14.694,500,00 Budget Expenses 12,884.170.81 Canceled Fund 1,770,329,19 Payment transferred to the following year: 40,000.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 11.767,000.00 Net Collection 12.060.377.64 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Turkish Justice Academy was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall take part in the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 23) AGENTS AND AGENTS BUILDING 1) Judges and Prosecutors High Council 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 57,534,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 57,534,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors take part in the final account of central management in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Final Account for Central Management 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 48.112,000.00 Budget Expenses 37,792.705,25 Canceled Fund 10.319.294.75 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 20) THE ENERGY AND THE ENERGY OF ENERGY 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 432,024,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 29,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 173,823,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,220,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,829,076,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014 The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 661.998.630.00 Budget Expenses 413.463.066.51 Canceled Fund 248,535,563,49 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted as part of the central management account in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Energy Market Editing Institution will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.05) ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 11.962,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 110,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 137,750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 152.022,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 140.022,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns (-) -1.750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 152.022,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Energy Market Editing Institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2012 will be transferred to the chapters of the Energy Market Editing Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 157,585,000.00 Budget Expenses 136,046,193,81 Canceled allowance 21.538.806.19 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 115,585,000.00 Net Collection 176,986,727,11 Ret and Returns (-) 765,701,25 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Energy Market Editing Agency was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the National Borial Research Institute will take part in the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.26) INSTITUTION INSTITUTION 1) The National Borborial Research Institute's Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 04 Economic Affairs and Services 11.739000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 11.739.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes 8,239.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 11.739000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The National Institute of Bor Research was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the National Institute of Bor Research shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 10.205.283.00 Budget Expenses 9.315.442.91 Cancelled Fund 889.840.09 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 9.220,000.00 Net Collection 11.081.369.96 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Bor Research Institute was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation will take part in the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.27) BUILDING OF TURKEY ATOM INNERGY 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.879.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 116,476,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 127,915,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 18.130,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 109,415,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 370,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 127,915,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 109,452,823,86 Budget Expenses 81.016.078.91 Canceled Fund 28.436.744.95 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7.322.231.60 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 102,439.000,00 Net Collection 93,644.894,95 Ret and Returns (-) 278,851,38 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been accepted as part of its final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management budget of 2014 of the Department of Mining Study and Search will be taken into consideration by those who do not accept... those who don't. 40.40) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 67,887,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 315,429000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 385.016,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 27,820,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 295,016,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 62,180,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 385.016,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Department of Mining Study and Search was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2012 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Mining Study and Search Directorate: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 387,689,557,90 Budget Expenses 350.644.455.15 Canceled Fund 37,045,102.75 Transferred to the Next Year 2.311.946.34 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimated 358.824,000.00 Net Collection 504.036.810,77 Ret and Returns (-) 95,638,057,25 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Mining Study and Search was adopted as part of the central management account in 2012. Members of parliament, the Ministry of Justice, Criminal and Execution Institutions, the Employment Homes Institution for Prisons, the Justice Academy, the Justice Academy and Prosecutors' High Council, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Energy Market Editing Institution, the National Bor Research Institute, the Central Management budgets of the Turkish Atomic Energy Institute and the Research Directorate for Mines and Research in 2014, and the final accounts of central management in 2012. Congressmans, this concludes the sixth round of talks. According to the programme, I close the merger to meet at 10:00 p.m. on Saturday (December 14th 2013) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations in order.
