tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these talks, the deadline is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash MP who wanted to talk about February 12 as the Day of Liberation. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, today is February 7th. February 7th is a very important date for Kahramanmarash, because on February 7, 1973 this is the date of the House, which is the title of Kahramanmarash. In addition, the festival of the salvation and victory of Kahramanmarash is February 12, 1920. Right now, in our Kahramanmarash, we celebrate our February 12th Liberation Day and Victory Week for a week. Mr. President, from the establishment of the Ottoman Empire until this time, or until 1919, we had many countries, many countries under our care, many countries, but unfortunately we've lost a lot of them until 1900-19-years, and there have been sixty-two countries from within the lands that we lost, now, or at that time, of our lands, or of the territorial integrity. Currently, in sixty-two countries, the works of Turkey, Ottomans, and Ottomans left behind as relics. In 1919 -- according to the land that was left in those years -- the enemies invaded our entire country, unfortunately, Turkey entered into an inextricable whole at that time. The British first came to our heromarash, captured by the British, tried to manage it, and after eight months, they were handed over to the French. But Kahramanmarash stood upright, and with this struggle by Kahramanmarash, the French were not able to stay in Kahramanmarash, and were forced to escape. I'd like to point out the three most important points of this national struggle by heromarash. The first was when French soldiers in Kahramanmarash, Turkish women out of the baths, opened their veils and laid hands on their chastity -- which they failed to do -- the milkman Imam (our public hero, Milkman Imam) -- killed French soldiers. That's one of the first important elements. Second: There is no Friday prayer in a land given in the Great Mosque, in the name of our Hoxha, and in the days of Hoxha. In the occupied land and in the castle where the French flag was hung, Friday prayer will not be performed as long as that happens. The people have taken down the French flag from the castle and eventually the Turkish flag has been caught, and our struggle against the French has begun. After twenty-two days and twenty-two nights, the French had to leave Kahramanmarash, and that's today, this is the day of the victory of our heromarash, which we are celebrating the 93rd anniversary. And as a third great philosophy, there's a sentence the people of Kahramanmarash say. He says, "Marash will not laugh at the enemy without a tomb for us." Again, for the first time in the world and in Turkey, on 5 April 1925, the people of Kahramanmarash and Kahramanmarash were rewarded with a red striped medal, and there is no match in the world. After Kahramanmarash was saved here, the people of Kahramanmarash fired the French with the pickaxes at the time, shovels at the time, with the initial circumstances, but he did not finish his work again, this time he supported the salvation of our surrounding provinces, and helped them to survive. With these thoughts and feelings, I cherish our martyrs. May God never show us the days of the Salvation War again, I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. So we celebrate the Day of Salvation of our heromarash, wishing good luck and good fortune to our nation. Our second speaker now belongs to Mr. Osman Boyraz, the Istanbul MP who wanted to announce the 2013 Piri Reis Map as the Memorial Year. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise at the 36th UNESCO General Conference held in Paris in 2011 that the 500th anniversary of Piri Reis. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens, watching us on their screens, with love, respect, and conversation. Among the Ottoman geographers, one of the first to come to mind was Piri Reis. Piri Reis, whose real name is Muhieddin Piri Bey and his uncle Kemal Reis and Gırnata, also known as the mariner, was one of the two great scientists brought up during Sultan Süleyman the Law, along with the architect Sinan. At the age of 16, his uncle began sailing on the ship of the famous Turkish sailor Kemal Reis. Starting from the first day of marine life -- as he calls it -- he became a prisoner of two great passions, one of which is Mediterranean and marine, and the other is research and science. Thus, as he traveled the seas, he was interested in the geographical state of the Mediterranean coasts and islands, examined the economic and social lives of here and the people living here, not content with his observations, but wrote his findings and information, along with the islands and shores of the Mediterranean, drawing maps of the cities. After his uncle's death in a sea accident in 1511, his birthplace was taken to Gallipoli, where he drew the famous map of the world of 1513, working for two years, taking advantage of his observations, notes, collections of oral, written, drawn documents. Today, we have not the whole map, but a part of the six-to-one and that includes only the South American continent and the West African coast. Unfortunately, the main part of the map that covers the old world is lost, undiscovered. The map of the world of 1513 is not only a cartographical but also a valuable document in the history of discoveries. Piri Reis, after drawing a map of the world of 1513, returned to the sea and studied the economic and social lives of the people living around here with the naval and geography of Mediterranean coasts and islands, created a rich archive. After 40 years of long, scientific, visual work, he was able to present his book to Sultan Süleyman the Law in 1526. Piri Reis, whose book is known as Bahriye, is the first and only book of the coastal and social life of the 16th-century Mediterranean, as well as the economic and social lives of the people who live here, the land and islands, the animal presence of animals, the water, the waters, the above-ground natural resources, the history and meteorological knowledge of various subjects. In this case, the work is a world cultural heritage of the Mediterranean Sea, the largest of which brings the Mediterranean Mediterranean Mediterranean Sea to our day. A more important feature of Piri Reis's book is that he has expressed his book, which is an expression of the humanist views of the Turks, that he has written for the people of the Mediterranean, regardless of religion, language, race. And we, as our government, are determined and determined to serve all mankind, regardless of this inspired religion, language, race, sect, sect. In this regard, his book, the Navy, is an economic social geography book. Since Piri Reis was no longer a subject to write about the Mediterranean after his book was presented to Sultan Sulejman, he focused his work on major geographical discoveries. The first fruit of his new work is a map dated 1828. Sadly, not all the map dated 1828 remained, but the only part of the original map that made up a quarter. This second map is considered not only information contained but also a cartographical masterpiece of mapping by Turkish and foreign researchers. At the end of the initiatives made by UNESCO, with the importance of the Maritime Undersecretary and the Ministry of Culture, UNESCO's 2013 Piri Responsor's Map was accepted as the Memorial Year. On this occasion, I give my thanks to the institutions mentioned, to the NGOs, and to the Piri Reis Mapists' Association at the outset. Dear lawmakers, I would like to thank you all for the support of our esteemed members of the Grand Assembly to provide the 2013 Piri Reis Map for Memorial events, to allow such activities to lead to the growth, development, introduction of our country, to salute your high delegation, and to show you again, as you all know, this map that was made in 1513.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0005par0035	What is it?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0004par0036	It's a map our grandfathers drew.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Turhan Tayan MP, who asked for a comment on the views of the Lauzan mubadul organisations. Here you go, Mr. Tayan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0007par0043	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as a second-generation child, I respectfully present to your attention and interest the joint statement of 22 media organizations, particularly the Lozan Mubadils Foundation. Members of parliament, on January 30, 1923, the government of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Greek government signed an agreement on the adoption of Greek Orthodox residents in Turkey and Turkish Muslims in Greece. About 2 million people were forced to leave the land where they were born, including those who had left their homes since the beginning of the Balkan War on 18 October 1912. Those who were subjected to the slaughter left behind the land they had reaped for hundreds of years, and their livelihoods, and their houses, and their holy places, and the tombs of their loved ones. During this long and difficult journey, they gave away the dead of what they had lost, and there were those who died of malnutrition and poor physical conditions, families scattered. For a long time in their new homeland, they had a hard time adapting, they didn't take their pain outside, they didn't tell them, they didn't tell them. For many years, the mubadins were not allowed to visit the land where they were born. Almost all of the first generation of followers left this world in a state of homesickness. In recent years, a growing number of mubadilites and grandchildren want to visit their grandparents' homes, where they were born, to see cities, villages, neighborhoods, and places of worship; they want to follow their own special history and culture. However, visa liberalisation for citizens of the Republic of Turkey is disappointing during visas. Citizens of the Republic of Turkey, which is an EU candidate, can receive a single, very short-term visa in exchange for 100 euros spent. Some countries that are not even EU candidates pay only 35 euros as visa fees. We demand that the government of Greece and EU executives remove the visa wall between the two peoples. We ask the government of the Republic of Turkey to follow this humanitarian request. We citizens of the Republic of Turkey want to visit the land of our parents without visas, like Greek Orthodox mubadils, who are citizens of Greece. We also ask the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of Greece to restore and protect those who have survived all the sacred and historical sites left behind by the respondents. We expect central administrations to provide financial and technical support for efforts by local governments and civil society organisations in Turkey and Greece to protect the architectural heritage. The protection of the cultural heritage left over from the exchange, the ability of all the respondents to visit their families' homes without visas, to get to know each other better, to promote friendship among the peoples, and to improve the culture of peace. We demand immediate measures, saying that we regret the racist attacks on minority institutions and diplomats, and that we strongly condemn them. The first milestones of the road from the Balkan War to Balkan peace were laid out by Ataturk and Venizelos in 1930. We, the underprivileged children and their grandchildren, believe with the heart that on the 90th anniversary of the exchange, the Balkans, the Aegean islands, and the geography where we live, instead of the conflict, peace can be created, and instead of exile, the environment to live together. Once again, we remember those who lost their lives in wars and migration routes with respect and mercy, saying never to suffer again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0008par0054	Mr. Tayan, thank you. Please...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. And as his third-generation grandson, I would like to say that everyone knows their own pain. There have been people in this land who have suffered a lot, those who have been tortured, those who have lost their lives, and everyone talks, but they have never spoken. They will hide their pain, their distress, and their sorrows, and they will hide them in their midst, and they will have no grudge. Only we know how they came on the migration roads, how they threw their dead overboard so they wouldn't smell. They know how hard it is to leave their home, their home, their tree, their flower, their graves in another land, and how they went into uncertainty, their great pain, how they went through that great tribulation. We cherish our people who have lost their lives and suffered on their migration routes. And we thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0010par0061	Thank you. Once again, I would like to express our satisfaction that these citizens, whom we call "sons and conquerors" have returned to their homes a hundred years later. Our friends are done talking off the agenda. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0011par0067	Mr. President, thank you. Today morning we were in the market of Stickuk animals with our Ankara county organisation and our Chopuk district organisation, and we also visited the market there. Our tradesmen there, our cabbies, they're a pain in the ass, our van-drivers, they're a pain in the ass. Although Ankara is a total city, they say they can't make a flight into Ankara, they can't get customers. Since Ankara Metropolitan Municipality is from the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Melih Gökçek has promised them, but the promise has not been fulfilled. There's an airport on the stick, in the Esenboğa Airport, but the taxi drivers and van drivers can't use this airport. They have demands for usage. In addition, the livestock farmers at the animal market ask that the zero interest loans are paid these days, that the Meat and Fish Association line up, and that the Meat and Fish Association must meet the demands of the small manufacturer as soon as possible. I'm warning the government about this, and thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0012par0070	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0013par0073	Thank you, Mayor. The consumer associations are warning our people. In the dwelling, the period of construction was moved from the period of construction to the period of construction. Showing the cardboard model and selling the dwelling. Real estate sales, which have not been completed and have been approved by the model, are subject to campaign sales in Article 7 of the Law on the Protection of consumer number 4077. To avoid being victimized, consumers must look for bank guarantees or sales insurance, according to the rights given by Law 4077. Companies that sell with large advertising campaigns do not meet the insurance or bank guarantee requirement. If the victim consumers used firms and loans, they'll be able to file charges against the bank. In addition, consumers will be able to sue the administration court, arguing that the state is responsible for failing to fulfil its control obligation. The citizen must be briefed by public spotlights on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0014par0076	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0015par0079	Mr. President, thank you very much. Although there's no government minister here to listen to us, but I'd like to say it anyway. Bolu has been run by a AKP mayor for two periods. This mayor is doing 18th Amendment practices in Bolu. While these practices are being performed, there are serious procedures, serious errors, and enjoyment. How do I know that? I know this from the decisions made by the Sakaryan administration courts regarding the 18th Amendment practices. Citizens who try to press charges and object are being openly threatened by the municipality, trying to be intimidated. I'm calling from here to the government, please assign an inspector to review all 18th Amendment applications ever made by the mayor of Bolu. When you examine it, you will see that in Bolu, you will see how the victims of the 18th article were created and the rich of the 18th article. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0016par0084	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0017par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise to attract the attention of the House. Propulsion Law No. 5084 ended on 31/12/2012 and was not extended. However, with the end of the Advantage Law, there is a great deal of damage to businesses in 42 counties. Unfair competition has arisen, costs have been paid in all workplaces. Today, the Tokat Province Medical Park special hospital, Canicas Textil executives and many business owners have expressed that they face the situation of reducing or closing the business. The law, which contains 5084, says it must be redesigned and legalized, I want to draw the attention of the House. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0018par0090	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0019par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, Admiral Nusret Güner resigned last week, expressing his discomfort over the espionage case. Many Navy commanders are also arrested in prison. The heroic commanders of the team who drew the Turkish flag to the Cardacic Rocks are also in Silivri. It's news in the press that the Navy has no admiral left to be assigned to the flagships. Meanwhile, reports of over 100 pilots resigning from the Air Force have come to light. The TSK explained that the mandatory service would be reduced from 15 to 10 years and at high prices paid by the private sector. Prime Minister Erdogan said that there are no officers left to be sent there in the commander's office, that's not going to happen. The situation is grave. The incidents show Turkish Armed Forces suffer from moral and motivation. It's interesting that in an environment where terrorist leader Ocalan is dealing with the state, Turkish Armed Forces cannot find a position to deal with. O AKP and his power, tremble and come to your senses!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0020par0099	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0021par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to read a passage from a retired civil servant to the High Council: I am a civil servant retired from level 4 of the 1st degree. There's a one-and-a-half pay gap between the pensioner and the employee. We don't have eyes on the employee's salary, but I think retired civil servants should be given a salary to live on. Don't our elders think that the pensioners don't charge electricity, water money, phone money, vegetables, fruit, food, clothing? Are they thinking about a person who doesn't live when they say he's retired? We'd like to bring up the status of retired government officials. Twenty-five, thirty years of service to this state, a teacher, officer, chief must live with his head up. We, the butcher, the grocery store, the grocery store. We wear out a pair of shoes every month so we don't see the people we owe money to. As you know, this government society has made a charity society, and the pride, honor, and honor of a citizen has been brought to ruin. This is politics. We don't want a 3-5 per cent pension, we want a living salary. They wanted their wishes to be expressed in Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you very much, Mr. Mehmet Satın, the Honorable Congressman of Kahramanmarash. Today is the 93rd anniversary of Kahramanmarash's Victory Day. As the National Movement Party Group, on behalf of all our party executives, especially Mr. President of State Gardens, we sincerely celebrate this Day of Victory for all Kahramans. Calling them heroes is as lawful as their mothers' milk. At the beginning of the national struggle, Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, and all our southern provinces stood up to the heroic enemy and opposed the invasion of their homeland. We ask for mercy on our martyrs, and we pay tribute to all the hero-mares, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0024par0118	Thank you very much, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0025par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. While Piri Reis, our proud sailor, speaks with mercy and gratitude, our lost activity in the Mediterranean is very upsetting to us. Since 1996, Cyprus has been conducting a systematic study for its underground resources in the eastern Mediterranean. In 2006, the Greeks who signed agreements with Egypt, followed by Israel, and the economic zones, separated the island's southern part of the island into thirteen parcels, one-sided. The Greeks gave the 12th parcel to the American Noble Energy Company, 175km south of the island, reaching natural gas deposits in this region last year. According to today's news, the Greeks gave two parcels of the so-called single-sided parcels to the French Total and three parcels to the Italian ENI Corporation. The Greek administration also shared the Israeli company Delek in the region of the United States, which he gave to the American company. The deputy president of Totalal, who signed the agreement with the Greek Trade Minister, announced that after two and three-dimensional seismic studies, they would conduct ten research drillings in the region and search for natural gas as well as oil. Total has given the Greek administration 24m euros in advance for two parcels. In this regard, it grieves our nation that we have not been able to go beyond what is said in Cyprus and in the Mediterranean. Thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0026par0127	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0027par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. As many as 300 prisoners, who should have been released on probation after the final arrangements, are being victimized as an excuse to move into the Eagle Courthouse, and are unable to take advantage of their rights. With these victims in Kartal Maltepe Prison, our Istanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt is with them at any moment and bringing up his problems. For one thing, we offer the knowledge of the High Assembly that the arrangement we have made cannot be carried out because of a weakness created by the administration and that those who deserve to be evacuated there are being victimised.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0028par0135	Mr. President, it wasn't enough to build a shield to protect Israel, it wasn't enough to visit the shield, it wasn't enough to employ 150 U.S. soldiers in the shield, it wasn't enough to keep Turkish soldiers on guard at the door to protect the soldiers working on the shield. And now there's a tax on a citizen's tax from the government's vault so the soldiers can get to the shield in peace. By order of the prime minister, the two miles of road to the Globek's shield was taken into the village road so that the US troops wouldn't be miserable on the roads. I condemn the asphalt of the road to the shield when dozens of villages cannot pass through the mud. There are still dozens of villages there, still snow and winter today. I've been to the Globelet many times, and I haven't seen a single person call it "Kurpek." Once again, I condemn the eyes of the blind who call it the village. If so, serve the villages of Malatiah. He condemns the mentality that allowed the invasion of Turkey there once again, and I ask that this decision be evaluated once again.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0026par0137	Thank you, Mr. Agha. We can't promise some of our friends who hacked into the system. It's limited to 10 people. Mr. Aydın, as Deputy Director of the Group, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0029par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTY Group, celebrate the liberation of Kahramanmarash, February 12th. Once again, we remember all our martyrs in the person of the Milkyman Imam, who gave Marash the title of hero, with mercy and gratitude. We pray and hope that that flag that stood at Kahramanmarash Castle in those days will wave forever. On this occasion, once again, I would like to congratulate all the heroes on their heroic defenses, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0030par0144	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. Now, off-the-tops and words are complete. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to investigate and determine the needs of disabled citizens. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 11) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 15) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Erzincan]] [[40s.]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] 23) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] In our country, the situation of disabled people is unpredictablely miserable and unclaimed. It has also been confirmed in thousands of e-mails, telephones, and face - to - face talks with lawmakers. The number of disabled citizens that make up Turkey's quietest majority is estimated at around 30 million, along with their families. This figure clearly shows how quickly we must act on the urgency of the matter and the results of the study. On 16 July 2006, the Ministry of Health changed the Health Department's Health Board Reports on the Medical Board, and they became unstoppable on a million disabled night in our country. Reports from the Balthazar ruler, used 200 years ago to determine medical compensations, use all opportunities against the disabled. We see no results in accessibility and qualified educators working with disabled children, not only in general, but also in connection with other children. The use of sign language in deaf schools is not legal, and they do not have lip-reading training. There is also not enough effort to promote subtitles or sign language, which will facilitate the lives of deaf people in terms of social integration. As a result, our children are condemned to complete silence and lack of education. Our disabled young people have even lost hope of finding employment in our country, where unemployment is relatively high. As a result of the 1/1/2011 amendment to the Social Security Institution's legislation, it has been difficult for the disabled to access medical needs and disabled vehicles that are already quite limited. Those who are able to overcome this challenge are paying a secret tax in the name of the contribution. In this sense, regulations that should facilitate the lives of disabled people violate the most basic human rights. They also suffer from the services they receive from the private sector because the disabled state does not encourage the private sector, which can barely benefit from public services. For example, Turkish Airlines grants discount tickets for disabled persons, but the disabled ticket is calculated over the most expensive fee, and the disabled passenger is more expensive than the average passenger. We're just offering this example to reflect our true view of the disabled socially. The Convention on Central Examination and Kura Principle has not yet been implemented as of today, under the conditions of the State Service of the Retardees, which was removed from Law 6111 and entered into force on 3/10/2011. In contrast, about 18,000 public and 30,000 private sector staffs remain vacant. If the government fails to meet its quotas, which part of society can expect it to abide by the law? They are not perceived in the definition of constitutional citizenship, since they have so far been offered to the disabled as the disabled, the charitable and the helpless. They are unable to convince the public that they are disabled, not dishonest, and that they want to get the rights, and that equal rights of honor are under way when they fight these perceptions. In the 19th term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Commission for Research on Obligatory Problems -- established -- has been nothing more than a show of goodwill. Moreover, the problems of the disabled and the solutions to these problems have changed greatly today. The United Nations Convention on Human Rights, which our government has signed, as a requirement, proposes and proposes the opening of Parliamental research under Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105, in order to determine the problems of the disabled and the solutions to these problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the TMK (29/6/2006 dates and Law No. 5532), which took into effect in our country in 2006, we ask for full examination of all aspects of the students arrested by the law and arrested by the court to be investigated and illuminated by the Constitution's 98th, Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Civil Code. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In 2006, thousands of elementary schools, high school and university students were taken into custody as part of the TMK, which terrorized almost all parts of the society, especially Kurdish youth who were taken into force, were arrested by the courts where they were taken into custody. These students, including children, have either been expelled from school, received long-term suspension sentences by the school board, or have been separated from the institution where they have been studying because they themselves have trouble adapting. The students who were under arrest were unable to continue their studies at the institutions where they were studying and failed to take their exams. In particular, because of operations that coincided with the final periods of university students, students had to extend their studies because they were unable to take final exams that were incompatible. Because of long-term imprisonment, students who should be in institutions where they are studying have to spend their months and years between four walls, unfortunately due to the conversion of detention. After the evacuation, many students have trouble adjusting to their families, friends, and environments. Therefore, the TMK does not only negatively affect the students who have been taken into custody, but it affects all their environments, especially their parents, both financially and spiritually. In this context, it is necessary to establish a parliamentary investigation in order to determine all aspects of the matter and determine the material and spiritual damage caused by the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Traffic accidents in our country cause significant loss of lives and goods every year. In order to investigate the factors causing traffic accidents, determine the measures to be taken, and address the problems, the Constitution requires the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Turkish National Assembly's Institution. [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] 4) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[Slap]] [[Kütahya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 16) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[Kayseri]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Tekirdağ]] Most people think about traffic, stress, confusion, noise, accidents, deaths, and injuries. But more importantly, it's traffic accidents and consequences that occur almost every day. Traffic usually affects our social and economic lives negatively, especially social and psychological effects that are invisible in urban life. Transport is one of the most basic needs of individuals today. The countries prefer specific transport systems based on geographical conditions and economic possibilities. However, sometimes underprivileged services also present transportation as a problem. Traveling and freight transport in our country is largely provided by road transport. Hence, road transport is an important factor in the formation of traffic accidents. The world's developed economies represent the problem of transportation and overall the fulfillment of traffic safety, infrastructure services, first aid, emergency intervention, post-accident rescue services, education, legal legislation and control services. Traffic security can be provided with the complete and compatible implementation of these elements. As part of territorial security, land road legislation, territorial education, good transportation, improving infrastructure's security activities, auditing, institutional strengthening, traffic infrastructure. Therefore, in the context of preventing traffic accidents, research must focus on these issues, the proposal for solutions. The results of traffic accidents have significant effects. Every year, thousands of our people lose their lives, hundreds of thousands of people get hurt or injured by traffic accidents on a social scale. On the other hand, the social dimension appears to cover a much wider area, given the psychological effects on the relatives of those who died or were injured in traffic accidents. Another aspect of traffic accidents is the economic aspect. Traffic accidents all over the world, especially in our country, cause a lot of financial and spiritual damage and loss. In addition to major financial damage, many of our citizens lose their lives or suffer temporary or permanent injuries each year. More lives lost than life lost in terrorist incidents, considered the biggest problem of many in our country, have been lost by traffic accidents. One reason why traffic accidents have such a big impact is because of the wrong policy on transportation. The recovery of traffic problems, the improvement of technical and physical infrastructure, the deterrent of control, the establishment of laws and co-ordination among relevant institutions, the awareness of all members in the community and the adequate training of traffic drivers, pedestrians, and travellers. It's often unlikely to find a single person responsible for a car accident. As a result, there is a chain of causes, and only one of them can be minimized by the removal of a few of them, often avoiding accidents. It can be viewed as a problem in itself and is one of the most basic problems facing immediate solutions, especially from traffic accidents, sad and visible consequences. With all these facts, we need to develop research and investigations on the causes of traffic accidents, reduce, prevent or minimize traffic accidents, determine measures and solution proposals in accordance with Articles 98th, 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Parliamentary Council of Turkey's Articles. Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet at a meeting of 07/02/2013 (today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 22 November 2011, Diyarbakır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends gave 10/321 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate violence against women. The parliamentary research motion has been proposed to be read in the presentations Thursday (7/2/2013/13), before other motions waiting to be submitted to the General Assembly's information. On the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the first speaker, Sebahat Tuncel, is İstanbul MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. Tuncel, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0031par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion to open a parliamentary investigation, which is part of our proposal. I salute you all. Unfortunately, there's not a lot of talk about her on this stand, or more violence against women is being brought up. More women are the ones who bring it up. It's not women who make women's lives hell, it's men who have to change. Each time we use this bench to remind men of women who have suffered male violence to stop this violence, especially in this Parliament, we say that this should be addressed in this parliament, in this parliament, in terms of gender equality, gender equality, and man equality. Because as long as it doesn't change, women continue to be killed, harassed and raped as long as it doesn't involve the idea of equality between men and women in all areas of social life, in all areas, and in all areas, as long as policies are not developed according to this, women continue to be killed, women continue to be raped. Even when we look at the number of women killed in 2012, we'll see that. We can't mean anything by it, it's a massacre. In 2012, 165 women were killed, 165 women killed by men. 150 women have been raped, men have raped 150 women in 2012. These are the ones that are reflected in the official numbers. Hundreds have been harassed, thousands have been subjected to violence. It's not a destiny for women, it's not Turkey's fate, we believe it can change. And from that point of view, by downloading these motions at every turn, we suggest that this should be investigated. Every time we download a motion, the ruling party says it doesn't need to be investigated, they already do things for women. In a little while, the deputy who is likely to speak for the AKP will say this: there is no need to be investigated, we are already making laws on this matter. Last semester, we passed a law on preventing violence against women in this Parliament so we could do something good for women on March 8th. We said it was a big deal, but since this law was passed, we couldn't prevent the deaths of 165 women today. So there's a problem, it's not about making the law. This Parliament is always concerned with its consequences as matters are discussed. So there's no discussion of why, what are the reasons, how to eliminate the reasons for that. So the violence continues, the women continue to die. Once again, we remind the Party of Peace and Democracy that violence will not cease to exist until the mind changes. Today, inequality between men and women breeds violence. This violence brings justice, power. Do you know why most women are killed, dear friends, because they want to have a say in their own lives, the data gives them this. When women want to have a say in their own lives, men see it as a threat, they kill it. This is a serious problem. So there's a problem here; we have to change that. And as long as we don't change that, the massacres of women will continue. Now, what we really need to do here is, how do we look at the perspective of equality between men and women? As long as we don't see men and women as equal, unfortunately, we'll continue to talk about these matters. The ruling party, for example, says it means good things about women joining employment today, but we're looking at their projects, and they're actually doing projects that strengthen the role of women being secondary, their position within the family. For example, the concept of the family, a sacred concept for AKP power, says, "Let's raise this family, let's change it." What does this family do? This family abuses women, prevents women from becoming individuals. First, you need to democratize the family, spread the idea that men and women in the family are equal. As long as you don't spread it, if you strengthen the family, you strengthen traditional roles of femininity and manhood. Look, today, there's a spot that the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy co-organizes, a spot of ad: ▪ Everyone can say that in this space: "How well do women save energy?" Look, women do laundry, do dishes, iron, traditionally continue their role as women. What's he doing? He's watching TV. Now, how do we talk about change? We're against the fact that things are going to end as women's work or men's work. Today, a man must be able to wash the dishes within the house, and a woman must be able to wash them, and a man must be able to cook. Now, if you describe this traditional work as women's work, men's work, and you publish it through a commercial, we're going to be in a violent situation here. Because when she doesn't iron, she gets violent from her wife, and when she doesn't wash dishes, she gets violent, and when she doesn't look at her child, she gets violent. Traditionally, if you describe roles like that, there's no way we can avoid violence against women here. For example, we criticize the media, and we say that the media should give up the language that produces these sexist roles, give up the male language, but the government is spreading such a project by the media's hands. Now I'd like to address the women's deputies in the AKP: the women's deputies in the AKP, especially Mr. Minister Fatma Şahin, know where this is going. He has to be careful about that. We have to be careful. If we don't do this, then we have to blame ourselves for the deaths of these women. Dear lawmakers, unless we do so, we will seriously feel responsible for the violence, harassment, or murder of women in the coming term. We don't want that responsibility. So come, support this research proposal. We call it AKP. Let's investigate together, what is really the cause of the violence against women? As long as you don't eliminate your reasons, you can make all the laws you want, raise all the fines you want, there'll be no consequences. We have to change it socially because what we're doing here has to be reflected in society. Women also face serious problems at work. I want to say that it's not fate, it's possible that we can change it. Dear MPs, see, DİKASUM, Diyarbakır Centre for Research and Appliance on Women's Problems, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality. He did research with 74 women who were seeking asylum. The interesting results have come out: 27 percent of them show that they were married willingly, and more than half of them were psychologically abused. Again, according to this study, 20 percent of these women who had given birth before the age of 18 were identified as a basic problem at an early age. Half of the women have applied for an individual asylum, while the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, 9.5 per cent have applied through the police station, while 18 per cent have first applied to women's centers. In addition, 73% of them have applied to asylums due to violence, 16.2% of them have no place to live, 8.1 per cent of them have also applied for asylums due to family dissension. It's just a study in Diyarbakır, and there's a lot of problems when you think about it all over Turkey. Many women can't express it because of this social pressure, even though they've been abused. Second of all, the state doesn't protect women who are already exposed to violence -- almost 73 percent killed, the state couldn't protect them; when they go to the police station, it's traditionally your mate, he beats and he loves them. But he doesn't mean it, but he convinces her to send her home, and she gets killed. Most of the murdered women are either killed by their wives or by their lovers or by their ex-wives. Now, aren't these really our problems? We're doing business in Parliament, and we think that women should be represented here. However, this Parliament cannot prevent violence against women; even the member of this parliament has been subjected to violence. Is that okay with you? So at work... we can't express it through not being educated or educated. Today, in fact -- as I just said -- women are the most violent when they want to make decisions about themselves, about their own lives. In fact, the most highly educated women, businesswomen, women working in a field are exposed to violence. In that sense, we're all responsible for preventing this violence, men have a great role to play here. Men here have to stand up and criticize men who abuse women, or they're partners. When it comes to ending male violence, men as well as women's organised struggle need to distance themselves from men who are murderers -- which is what we call them. As long as he doesn't do it, everyone here will be responsible. But we know very well that even many of the MPs here, in fact, have been men in their own homes. So today, here, we would like to remind you once again how the Democrats or the speakers approach their wives, their children in their own homes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we hope that you will vote in favor of this motion of investigation, and we will determine the causes of violence against women and eliminate violence against women. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0032par0365	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. On the proposal, Mr. Idris Şahin, the Chandırı MP against you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0033par0368	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge against the Constitution's motion to open Parliamental Research on Articles 104 and 105, in order to investigate the women's murders and causes of the Peace and Democracy Party in our country and determine the necessary mechanisms for the creation of the current legal arrangements and international contracts signed, under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105. Dear President, it is of course a matter of great importance to investigate the motives of women's murders. It is, of course, the common duty of all of our MPs under the roof of Parliament to investigate the historical development of legal regulations that have been made in our country and to examine what our Parliament has done in this framework. Because in our sense of politics, let the people live so that the state can live. This is where we express that you have mental powers every time. It should never be possible to ignore the steps taken during the AK PARTI power period at the point of the protection of some of the rights and laws of our woman, who is the most important element in human survival, and their activities within the social environment. The speaker here made some statements before me. In fact, when I was coming out here, I was hoping to get out of this parliament to begin my words by thanking you. Because on March 8, 2012, this Parliament, with its opposition to its power, set an example for all humanity, our people, all the politicians, and brought the Law of Family Protection and the Protection of Violence Against Women together in full harmony and harmony. Here's one of the most important things that our people in Parliament, 75 million, have ever wanted from us, is to negotiate and demand that some laws be passed by Parliament. And in the best possible way, we're showing this student the position that we've shown against our woman by being one, one, and one, together. And that's where you have to live with the beauty, and you have to express it from this platform, but I think it's very wrong to come up here and just point out the male as the main factor in the violence against the woman, and just to show the male in a way that he uses violence against her in such a way. Because, above all, we need to keep the family alive with his man and his woman. As we express the family element here, we need to express the existence of a strong family and the most important core family in the community. I think it's unfortunate that as you start to talk, the man who is a part of the family has shown the negative aspect of this event and expressed that all violent practices come from the male. So, I'd like to consider it unsaid from this bench, and I'd like to see it that way. Therefore, in order to raise a powerful family member within our social world, we must first raise moral individuals of any kind. As far as we're concerned, people who respect their women, respect their men, respect their people, we'll be able to stop the violence against them, and we'll be able to prevent the violence against our men in some way. What's important is that we've done some work here on how to implement and apply a law that's been introduced through social consensus. We, the AK PARTI government, view violence against women as a crime of humanity. We also consider violence against our human being a crime of humanity. Therefore, no matter who it comes from, bad behavior should never set a precedent. And I'd like to say one more time in front of you that I thank all of our party groups for the legislation that was passed here on March 8, 2012. So, when we see valuable lawmakers, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, a ministry established during the AK PARTI rule period and its practices over the past two years, we see that a number of educational programmes for preventing violence against women, especially through consultations with all the layers of society, especially all the institutions that are matufic and vulnerable to the subject, have been very important in the education of judges who look at family courts, especially the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, especially our baro. I believe that, in this future process, I think that, as of now, domestic violence, which has been reflected in the public and is constantly on the front page in some newspapers, will end, hopefully, after the well-known awareness and education of the family, in some way, in our society. And again, the establishment of female guesthouses is part of the work of this era. There is a legal sanction in all our cities and municipalities, especially over 50,000 people, at the point of opening women's guesthouses. As of right now, there is an estimated 115 guesthouse in our country. As of 2002, there are 12 guesthouses currently in 115, and there are some studies in our legal legislation on the implementation of some protective measures. I believe that in Turkey, especially in the last few days, violent prevention centers are part of them. There are already nearly 14 Kingdoms of anti-violence centers, and they will be viewed as a protective factor against any violence against our woman. And again, the technical follow-up process has also been implemented in our country, and the pilot districts of Bursa and Adana have been preferred. In the coming days, I think this work will continue by increasing in different parts of Turkey. I'd like to express a particular point here that we appreciate the work done on women's employment. At the weekend, I was in my constituency with our Minister of Family and Social Policy. There, a beautiful project was launched under the leadership of our Governor's office, and as part of the Women's Eli Worth Project for Schools, we are happy to have seen their enthusiasm, their desire for employment and their productivity at the opening of the women's education and employment centers that our municipality has opened for them. We know very well that Çanrırı woman and Turkish woman not only served as mothers, but their contribution during the time of the national struggle, the blanket that she had to cover over her child, was the product of a mindset that covered her arsenal during the national struggle. I'd like to say that I disagree with the majority of the precious character's speeches, but I agree with one thing in particular. The precious orator states that there must be a change of mind in this country. That's right, I'd like to point out here that it's wrong to think of a woman as just an individual and to be specific to her individual activities. That's right, she has a very important mission in our culture, in our values, but when you see her here as an individual and you take her away from the family, even though we've applied the equality of opportunity to women and men, I'd like to express in particular that we've wronged the family institution. Therefore, we need to act with the awareness that a woman's strength and presence within the family will be strengthened by activities in every level of the country. Therefore, there is no benefit to anyone else if you simply bring our woman to the agenda on certain matters and otherwise draw her out of other areas of activity. You can also see that very serious work is done by our government today. When we look at the statistics on improving her employment, we are pleased to see that her employment has increased recently. I'd like to say once again that all of these beauties will take place at the same time as we discussed our respect, love, and our issues together. I think it's wrong to separate a man from a woman, from a woman, especially from a man, to present him here as a different person in the family institution. With that thought, I say we vote against the motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0383	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0035par0385	Mr. President has assessed my speech, especially my words to men, as I speak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0386	That's right, isn't it? So you speak for him, and he speaks against him.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0035par0387	I take it it was never discussed. He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0036par0388	I take it he never talked about it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0389	No, no, no... sorry.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0035par0390	Just a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0391	Sir, please, please! Third speaker...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0037par0393	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0394	Later, sir. Please, please!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0038par0395	He must have misinformation it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0037par0396	Now, there's some misinformation on what he said.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0397	How do you know which one is wrong?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0037par0398	Here, Mr. Secretary, will inform you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0399	Sir, look, it's something personal. He's making a speech in his favor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0037par0400	But there's some misinformation on what he said.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0401	I will stand up and speak against him. The man who says, "I will speak against those ideas." There's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0037par0402	Mr. President, please, two minutes... he's giving the wrong information. There's some misinformation on what he said.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0403	And how do you know he's wrong, that you're right?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0037par0404	Mr. President, please... he's giving the wrong information.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0039par0405	I'll make a correction, a correction.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0406	How do you fix it? Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0040par0408	All right, we need two minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0409	I mean, there's no such thing. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0041par0410	Why did he do it?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0411	That's right, you're right! Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0042par0415	Thank you. Now, that's the way it is when the Speaker is a man and the speaker is a man.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0034par0417	Here you go!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0042par0418	Now from here, I'd like to say that I stand by exactly what I'm saying. In this country, in 2011, yes, we passed a law. Since we passed that law, Mr. Orator, 165 women have been killed, 150 have been harassed, raped, and all responsible are men, and this state has failed to protect these women, that's one. Second of all, the matter of mental change is exactly from you... especially from the AKP women's paralegals, we're working together at the Male Opportunity Equality Commission -- first of all, the men in their own parties need to change their mentality. That's why women in this country don't see men as equal as individuals. The mentality that sees as private property is the main cause of death, which is buying and selling or having a say in it. That's what we're doing today. You'll also change the family institution, democratize it. She is my daughter, and she beats and loves her. Her approach is not acceptable when she says or does something. This sexism, not only affects women, but also men, because in the family, men and women, boys and women, grow up together, and this mentality of yours raises those boys as men and women as women. When those kids grow up, they do the same things you do to women. What's he doing? He's violent, preventing him from having a say. Please discuss all this with Mr. Fatma Şahin. Such an approach is unacceptable. I'm very pleased with this -- if you're uncomfortable -- if you're uncomfortable with men killing women -- that's a very good thing -- then you're going to prevent it. As a man, you will express that you are not on the side of this, that men need to change that mentality. Because women's organizations suffer from male violence. How many children you're going to have, no, you're not going to have an abortion, and the mentality that sees women as private property is the root cause of the massacres. Please, we want to write this down here.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0043par0424	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Now, in favor of the third speaker, Mr. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP. Mr. Little, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0044par0431	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, we have an international Convention on Dissension Against Women, the United Nations Nairobi Declaration, the United Nations Beijing Declaration, which has been ratified in our parliament, which considers our country a entity and the human rights constitution of women. We are the first to sign the Treaty of the Council of Europe against the Women and to Fight and Avoid Domestic Violence. This contract was approved in our Parliament. The Law on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women was published in the Official Gazette on March 20, 2012. As it turns out, we have signatures under all international contracts to prevent the violence that our women are subjected to, and we have adequate regulations in our national legislation. There is an open law in our Constitution to ensure equality between men and women. In Article 10 of our Constitution, men and women have equal rights. The state is obliged to ensure that this equality is granted to life. For this purpose, measures cannot be interpreted as contrary to the principle of equality. It is said that the problem comes and is locked in the field of practice. Despite all the arrangements, women are still shot, stabbed, beaten, and killed in front of their homes. Every day, these sad paintings are on the third page of the newspapers, and the news is on TV. To draw attention to this issue, female NGOs are doing their best. Despite all these efforts, however, legal regulations, international contracts, despite the Constitution, do not instill social mentality in this issue. Last year, 36.8 percent of women were exposed to violence in the research of the Turkish Youth Businessmen's Association, or TUGIAD, in order to identify women's problems. According to this, 63.7 per cent of the women who suffered violence were exposed to violence by their spouse, 24.1 per cent of the family. So it's not just violence from the spouse, it's a structural problem. Do you think women are valued in Turkey? No, 26.3 per cent of women have answered the question. In earlier research, one of the two women who had been subjected to violence would never become a woman if I came back to the world. I had already stated from this platform. There's a lot of violence in this country that can lead women to suicide. The foundation of this violence is the social mentality that men and women cannot be equal. Dear MPs, I've just told you about the International Convention on Avoiding Every Kind of Segregation Against Women, signed under our country. CEDAW is a legally binding human rights contract that defines discrimination against women. It prohibits discrimination, direct and indirect discrimination, intentional and inadvertent discrimination in terms of its purpose and consequences. Not just legal and formal equality, but true equality demands and requires temporary special measures to eliminate discrimination against women, forcing governments to take measures against the violence she sees. People can be silent in the face of violence, someone can ignore it, but the mechanism we call the government cannot be thirsty, cannot be ignored, cannot be ignored. If a woman says, "My husband will kill me." The state has no right to ignore it. A woman who goes to a shelter because of violence cannot be thrown into the lap of death without creating conditions to protect her. The problem is more than just a problem of mentality in society; the problem is the problem of the state. Now, what would the state do? The state is obliged to protect people's lives in those capital letters. He can't just tell a woman who wants state protection to get it over with. We are not in the position to offer protection to everyone. If he does not protect them by saying, "If he ignores children's marriages, if he gives discounts for good behavior, his name is to be a partner in these crimes; no one can deny it. (CHP applause) The state is unfortunately involved in the murder of every woman, in that sense. Yes, the problem of violence against women is a painful, destructive problem in almost every country, but in our society it has become a disaster. Almost every day, several of our women are killed by their wives, fathers, brothers, raped, abused, beaten, tortured, so there is no real name in this country. If you push a woman out of social life, justify violence by hiding behind tradition or religion, limit her social role only to being a good mother, a good housewife, then the consequences are inevitable. Our women are out of business, out of politics, out of state duties, basically ignored. Of course, there are positive efforts for women's rights, and there are public officials who have good intentions, and of course there are those who work hard for women by adding their nights to their day, but we all know that good intentions are not enough alone. I'd like to stress once again that the basis of these violence and murders is the social mentality that men and women can't be equal. First of all, state, law enforcement, prosecutors, judges, we, lawmakers, must do their part. If we need protection, of course, we will mobilise our means and protect our women under threat of violence. We will break whatever law is necessary to prevent violence and murder, and the judges will enforce those laws without hesitation to ensure that our women's rights of life don't fall into their hands, so we'll all do our part. In the murder of Ayşe Pashalı, both state and ministry and NGOs, we hope it will be the last. They said it would be the last. However, as long as the mind that ignores her remains, these murders will not stop. Mr. President, with all the laws and all the mechanisms of this House, the goal is to remove all obstacles in front of women, to make women equal to men in every aspect of life. Without that, he says there is no way to prevent violence or murder of women, and I pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0045par0441	Dear Little, thank you. The fourth speaker, Mihrimah Belma Line, on the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Row, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0046par0445	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate the violence against the woman. I salute your committee. First of all, I'd like to thank my fellow lawmakers for bringing this up. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to thank Sedef Little Ma'am, our congressman, for telling our friend about the legal arrangements that were made during our reign, the international contracts we signed under him, one by one. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to go over these issues in my own way. Violence against women is, as you know, a human rights violation. Before the Justice and Development Party was formed and before they came to power, only a number of female NGOs worked on violence, sexual abuse, harassment, incest. As a member of the NGOs, we supported them as a person involved in these studies. Unfortunately, this was being pushed under the veil by the Turkish community, not on the agenda. For the first time in the Justice and Development Party's Programme, then in our ministries and other institutions related to our government, the issue was raised. According to many countries around the world, we are in a very, very good position in Turkey, according to Sedef Hanım just now. We changed the Constitution, we changed the penal code. You appreciate that we lack nothing in the legal sense. Of course, there are some difficulties with the application, there's no denying it. For the first time, a Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has issued a general order to address the difficulties in the application. This was the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey. It's not acceptable to violence against women, it's necessary to conduct studies on the subject... the ministries, institutions and organizations have been assigned. What has been done about it? Men have been trained, soldiers have been trained, religious officials have been trained and informed. A awareness of the aspects of this matter has been created. Later, with the establishment of the Ministry, the team, headed by Mr. Fatma Hawkah, continues to work with the National Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Religious Affairs and other institutions, and we are followers of them. Lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, lawmakers, academic lawmakers, healthmakers, all lawmakers from social space, public institutions are as focused on this issue as you are, following it; you know that. In particular, our friends at KEFEK are personally involved in the work of this matter.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0047par0452	Congressman, you have to change men. We're working. That's the point.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0046par0453	We can't change men, and men who live in this society are the facts of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0048par0454	You have to change your mindset.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0046par0455	Women like us, who grow men somewhere. You can say it's in the traditions of this society, whether it's with technology, with migration from village to city, but it's a fact that it's visible. What can you do as director, Congressman? First, you correct your laws. Did we do that? We did it. Did you support that? You supported it. What can you do after that? You work to correct the application. We set up the family courts, trained the judges there, trained the workers in the justice mechanism. This process has to take a certain amount of time to reach its conclusion, but in the meantime, we're not going to stay tied up, we're going to continue the work. The work we call a women's guesthouse is, again -- as my deputy mentioned earlier -- is something that was put on our side in the Law of Cities. Right now, in 81 provinces in Turkey, if I'm not mistaken, they all have women's shelters, women's guesthouses. Most of these belong to the public, and some belong to the municipality. We also provide support for the work of young girls in the shelter by social welfare support organizations. I'm in one of these, and I'm in one of those. OTHER than that, you were involved in the study of the SHUNIM. The construction of emergency phone lines for violence was made during this period, and it's active. There were no statistics. You know, statistics, by the Justice and Development Party governments, began in the period of our Minister Nimet Hanım, and came to this day. The Istanbul Convention is what we call a very important contract. Without hesitation, it was signed only by the government of the Republic of Turkey. Both in the European Union's progress report and in the work of our Minister, Fatma Şahin....in Davos....this matter has been especially appreciated. And I'd like to offer this to your appreciation. I think it's important that we sign this contract without hesitation. Many European Council countries have been unable to sign this contract without hesitation because it will be a financial or a cost and they will not be able to afford it. Thankfully, our government has signed this issue without hesitation because we have money to spare on women's matters and because we have no difficulty in this matter. And you can appreciate that it's a public awareness. The process needs to be monitored and kept on the agenda, but due to the Parliament's work, given the fact that the law that is on the agenda today is not on the agenda, I think we'll issue this motion as a women's MP and as a civil society person who supports all work.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0049par0462	At least don't say it against him.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0046par0463	I offer you all my respect and love in a world where there is no violence, people treat each other with respect and love, they are civilized, human rights violations don't exist. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0050par0466	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Shandir has a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0051par0471	Mr. President, thank you very much. As the National Movement Party Group, we support the establishment of a research commission in our Parliament to investigate and determine the causes and consequences of violence against women. Because violence is a consequence; it's a social, social outcome. It's the desperation of societies that are overwhelmed by the unresolvedness of problems and have lost hope. Violence against women is social insanity. If a society is inflicting violence and murder on a woman, that society is about to go mad. Therefore, if social unrest has turned into violence and murder, measures must be taken without delay. We, sir, would like to request that such a commission be established in view of what these measures are, in view of our interest in investigating and presenting them to the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0052par0475	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0053par0476	Mr. President, this is the first time I've seen all four groups applaud the speakers. So this is going to mean that I think the AKP Group will agree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0052par0477	We'll see, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0053par0478	What's with the fake applause if he won't admit it?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0054par0480	Don't pressure us, don't pressure us...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0055par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0056par0482	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0055par0484	We, the AK PARTY Group, agree with the content, and we have no objection to its content. Velev is on the agenda of the House. Hopefully, hopefully, some other time we'll all sit down and make it better.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0057par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0056par0486	Mr. Original, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0058par0487	I wonder what the women's MPs in the AKP will vote for, as well as the truth.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0059par0488	It's a little short. Let's hope we can make it broader.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0058par0489	Let's expand right away.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0060par0490	Let's set up a commission.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0061par0491	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0062par0492	Mr. Original, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0061par0493	Mr. President, if you turn on the microphone, I want my friends to hear it. Mr. President, I'd like to say something about this. Mr. President, a man wants a word about women's rights, please promise me.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0062par0495	Now, we don't have that custom, but open it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0061par0498	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, when our Prophet's daughter Fatima came to the room, the Prophet would rise. Again, Lord Ali says that women are the mother of mankind. Your respect for them. It is not possible for a society that does not respect her to be violent, and unfortunately there are several women killings every day in our country. Therefore, the issue of preventing violence against women is far more important than what is now on the agenda of the House. Please, this is an opportunity, in this regard, support this motion for research. As soon as we stop violence from happening to the woman, society will reach a modern level. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0063par0502	Thank you, Mr. Original. Members of parliament, talks on the Peace and Democracy Group proposal have been completed. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who do not accept the offer... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0064par0508	Sustained.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0065par0509	They agreed.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0066par0510	Sustained, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0067par0511	The motion is not accepted, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0065par0512	Mr. President, it's been accepted. Let's do it again.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0066par0513	They've agreed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0068par0514	Let's vote again. When our hands were in the air, you said they weren't accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0515	There is no such thing as a vote again. If you want, if you have a roll call, I'll do a roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0070par0516	They agreed...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0517	I've seen it too, ma'am, if you don't mind!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0070par0518	Nazlıaka!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0071par0519	They've agreed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0520	Okay, if you have any objections, we'll do it through the system.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0072par0521	Vote again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0522	There is no re-voting, sir. If you want...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0073par0523	Everyone raised their hands, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0524	Are you having second thoughts, sir, without a vote?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0074par0525	Mr. President, they've agreed.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0526	No, no. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0075par0527	Mr. President, the vote has been taken, it hasn't been accepted. Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0528	Yes, it's not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0076par0530	Mr. President, it's been accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0531	No, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday, 07/02/2013...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0077par0536	Mr. President, our friends have agreed, it's not rejected!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0069par0537	Ma'am, we have eyes too, we counted! You're welcome... With all due respect, I'd like to present the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Charter. On 06/02/2013, it has been suggested that the Parliamentary Research motion, which has been submitted by Mersin MP Aytug Atcı and 23 MPs, should be submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to present the following proposals in the UN's 2007/02/2013 talks in the same date on Thursday's unification of the "hotel on the land of Antalya's Belt district, which has been assigned for diplomatic use of the Republic of Kazakistan." In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, the first speaker is Aytug Atcı, Mersin MP. Mr. Horseman, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0078par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we proudly watched the alliance of our female MPs here. Then this alliance was rejected by the AKP's votes...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0079par0550	So we could partner up...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0078par0551	And I'd like to condemn it from this stand. Although my friends at the previous motion applauded all of my friends in the House, I know that the AKP Group in particular won't applaud the speech I'm going to give. And I apologize to you for having to disrupt the good weather that just happened in Congress, because what I'm going to talk about is really going to bother you, and I'm going to talk about people who actually have a little bit of conscience in them. Dear friends, our topic is between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kazakhstan. The year is December 13, 1993. The government of the period is signing a protocol with Kazakhstan. I say 1993 the year is 1993 because Kazakhstan is becoming independent in 1991, Kazakhstan and I have a very good relationship, we have a history, we have a cultural connection, and we're always trying to improve our relations with Kazakhstan at that time and now. So a protocol is signed at the time, and Kazakhstan is called: "Come, let us give you about 45 acres of land in Beldibi village of the Belt district of Antalya, and you build a state guest house here. Here, Kazakh, let them rest here when the state arrives, and let your prestige grow in the world, and let us make such a beautiful gesture to you as a brother country. And they give this land to the Republic of Kazakhstan for forty-nine years. This land, which was given to the Republic of Kazakhstan for forty-nine years at that time, comes into effect under the signature of Mr. Hikmet Cetin, who was also sent to parliament and is accepted. At the end of the forty-nine years, the bill also rules that the land given and any building built on it will be restored to the state of the Republic of Turkey. Then, over time, we find that a hotel is built on 45 acres of land here. This hotel is purposelessly built into the land given, and a hotel owned by a company, and it has nothing to do with Kazakhstan. Well, a hotel like this was built. Someone tried to get a run on the land we gave away for free. Well, what do you have to do? We need an intervention here, we need to go find out who's responsible, we need to do what needs to be done, we need to start administrative procedures and legal procedures. So, what does the AKP government do? The AKP government also says: "Ya, a hotel has been built here." What do we do? There's a funeral in the middle, come, let's all lift this up. He's calling our Kazakh brothers. What if we gave you a place, a hotel is built here, so let's make it legal with a new deal. He says, "Let's make it legal." And a new protocol is being prepared. Look, you won't believe your ears. According to the new protocol with Kazakhstan -- which is a new protocol -- 45 acres of previously assigned land during the AKP administration -- are being increased to 67 acres, it is said that the hotel that we gave you 45 was built, health, health, taking 67 acres. As said, a new allocation is being made here. That's not enough. There's a hotel built there, how are they going to make this hotel legal? It is said that Kazakhstan can also turn this hotel over to third parties to be operated commercially, for tourism purposes. That's not enough. Under the new bill, the land that was built on the hotel is given to the use of this hotel at all costs until December 31st 2010. It's not enough again. This land, which will be restored after forty-nine years, is said to be restored to the same period at the end of the process. The land is given to Kazakhstan for all eternity and thus to the tourist investor. Now, friends, some very important questions need to be asked here. So to find the answers to these questions, we've made a motion to investigate. We want Congress to set up a research commission, find the answers to these questions. If you have a conscience, if you have an atom's weight left, let's investigate all who have committed these corruptions, and whoever has done it, let's punish them all together. Now, one of the questions is: Who gave permission when such a facility was being built in the first degree tourist area, in the Belt? Yes, this was a place dedicated to Kazakhstan, which was given to Kazakhstan. Who gave you permission to come here, to build a hotel? Two, who gave you the hotel's zoning permit? Look, I need this place to look into it. Which city was it? Was he a CHP member or an MPP member? Did he exist then? Probably not, but whatever party it was, whoever was under it at that time, had to be investigated. So, who gave you this zoning permit? I wonder if the Turkish side suggested it. ▪ Go ahead and do me a favor. I have a close friend, she's close to me, she should build a hotel here. Is that what they call it? Or did the Kazakh side fool us, and I'm going to build a state guest house here, give it to me. And he said, "Give it to me." And he came on, and he made a hotel? So, when all this was done, when this hotel was run for seven years, where was the government, why didn't it intervene? On what date and according to what legislation was this hotel licensed? Since this is a tourist facility, how did the Ministry of Tourism get licensed here? And what's even more serious is, did these companies, who get free space and are entitled to forever and ever and ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, So, in this area, which was built against the law under a diplomatic agreement, what intervention was done legally? All this needs to be investigated, dear friends. Who condoned all these illegal practices? Is there or is there no legal action on these blinders? Was there an administrative procedure or not? So, given that the land given to Kazakhstan wasn't enough, given about 22 acres of land again, is it being planned to build a new hotel? Yeah, we gave it to him before, and they built a hotel on it. Now, is there going to be a new hotel built on our new land? Is there, in this way and so on, land assigned to other countries? If so, what savings have been applied on these fields? All this needs to be investigated. You know what's even worse? I'll tell you the exact number that we've assigned to Kazakhstan -- I told you about 45 acres -- it won't be enough to build 44,370 square meters -- that the people who built the hotel also chipped a little bit from the environment, and according to the bill that came our way, no one asked for the account of this hotel, which was created by violating the rights of the neighbors around us, which was also violated. Now, dear friends, if we're a serious state, if we're fighting corruption and you've got a shred of conscience in you, you should say yes to this research proposal. If, as you have just done, the man is telling the truth. If you say, "You will applaud," and then use it, you will answer to the people. If you reject this as you just did, you will answer to the public, but as the Republican People's Party, we will answer to you for it. Its end is the High Council, and its end is nothing else.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0080par0568	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The second speaker on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Osman Love Bak, İstanbul MP. Mr. Bak, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0081par0572	Now that you're against it, does your friend have a share or not?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0082par0573	What are you slandering me about? For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0083par0574	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the CHP Group's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation. I salute your high council. Commission talks on the land assigned to Kazakhstan (1/688) were completed at the 49th meeting of January 31, 2013, with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participating. Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kazakhstan between December 13, 1993 and the Republic of Turkey between Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Commission was aired to our Commission on October 1st 2012 as the main commission for implementing the amendments and additional protocol. The protocol was signed on 16 April 2012 in Kazakhstan, which provided the use of the land assigned to Kazakhstan under the protocol dated 13 December 1993, in exchange for the removal of debt due to the hotel on which part of the land was built out of purpose. Now, the Republican People's Party's proposal for research has been decided on the free use of the land built on it until December 31st 2010. This is completely unrealistic because Article 2 of the protocol states that the entity of Kazakistan is responsible for the areas assigned for the use of commercial activity for tourism, which are collected between February 16th 2001 and December 31st 2010, at the cost of planting, forest farmers' development revenues, logging and erosion control revenues, land permit costs, tax, picture and other mandatory fees, in Aktau, to build public buildings on the Turkish side, and at 1500 square metres in order to build public buildings on the Turkish side. He will allocate two plots of land the size of 2,000 square meters for 49 years. During talks on the bill in our commission, members of the Commission have asked about when the construction of the hotel on the land assigned to Kazakhstan and why our country will receive a total amount of money due to the hotel, the net facial measurements and positions of land assigned to our country in Aktau and Almati cities of Kazakhstan, and why it needs to be used for the use of the area assigned to our country for the purposes of tourism, and the part of the agreedness of the agreed-on protocol, which is used for the purpose of securing the area for the third people, and the part of the area of the area of the country, which is designated for the right to be dedicated to the rights of the country, and the part of the country, which has been used for the right to be used as part of the right-of-responsponsories and the rights for the rights. The government representative stated that under the protocol signed between our country and Kazakhstan on 13 December 1993, the site in the Belt district of Antalya was earmarked for forty-nine years for the construction of a state guesthouse for Kazakhstan, but started building a hotel on the land starting in 2001. During the period when the Turkish Republics began to gain independence, our relations with Kazakhstan are being considered, and it is being used in a way by the 1993 protocol as a political gesture on diplomatic land, which was set free for free, in 2005, when taxes and other financial obligations for the hotel were not met, procedures are being started. After these findings, all permits are being lifted in the administrative process of building the hotel on the property, and talks are being held on the Kazakh side. Talks with the Kazakh side have been discussed with Kazakhstan, reportedly demanding payment of debt due to taxes and other obligations due to the period between February 16, 2001 and December 31, 2010, when the land used for the state guesthouse and hotel was divided and operated for commercial purposes. Studies on the resolution of the conflict continue, negotiations with the Kazakh side are being held. The current legal status of the part of the land, which has been allocated without charge as a state guest house for health and rest, is being maintained. In exchange for the repayment of our fiscal legislation on diplomatic privilege and immunity and the running of the hotel, Kazakhstan's Aktau Harbor -- a very important port, the continuation of the Silk Road, a port that is very important for the continuation of the Iron Silk Road, there is a decision from the Council of Ministers on opening a consulate here -- and an agreement is being reached in Almati city. The land in Aktau is between 7,000 square meters and 1,500 to 2,000 square meters in Almatish. Here, a protocol is under way, signed in Ankara on April 16, 2012. Of course, our country was asked if the land to be assigned in Kazakhstan could afford to pay the debt to the protocol, which is considered a value. Of course, you know, he didn't buy it in Central Asia, and Aktau is really two very growing cities, one is a port city and one is a capital city. So the value of these plots here will actually satisfy our purchase of $9,460,000, which is much, much more than that. Of course, operations related to the allocation of the land in question must be carried out and completed within a year, starting with the implementation of the protocol that is being discussed. Kazakhstan's side is completing confirmation procedures on this protocol. The ruling on the 44,954 square metres set aside for tourism use in Article 2 of the protocol of the current protocol is considered to be built by the Kazakh to be assigned to third parties, and is part of the protocol that ensures that the problem is resolved. Thus, in retrospect, the issue of the transition to the third party is also intended to be resolved legally. As a result of this protocol, there is no intention of drafting a legal cover for the hotel built on the site. On the contrary, due to the fact that it was built on a land dedicated to a foreign country, it is intended to collect taxes, et cetera, that were not given to our government from 2010 until today. The hotel's tax debt, which has been accumulated so far, is about $9,460,000. This money is being taken, and any tax collection will be collected here in the next business process. This additional protocol opens the way for this hotel to pay its past debts and then continue to work within the framework of Turkish legislation without any privileges or exemptions. With this protocol, two lands are assigned to our country in Kazakhstan as compensation for the accumulated debts. I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0084par0590	Thank you, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0085par0591	That's not very convincing.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0084par0592	Thank you, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0086par0593	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0084par0594	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0087par0595	We didn't understand much about it, Osman Bey.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0086par0596	Sir, the preacher took a different meaning by twisting my words. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to fix it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0084par0597	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0086par0598	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0084par0599	In two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0086par0600	Thank you. Two minutes is enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0088par0601	You sound like you don't believe it, Osman Bey.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0086par0604	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, thank you very much for speaking to me. He sums up what I'm going to say, what I'm going to say. Yes, we gave Kazakhstan such land, they came, they built a hotel, and we're trying to clean it up. Good, good! So this is at least a matter clearly accepted by the AKP, thank you. However, he said something that would mislead the public and mislead the public with my words, and he said: "Sir, we have given Kazakhstan 67 acres of land." They came, built a hotel here. ▪ Where they built this hotel, some taxes piled up. In return for these taxes, they gave us two places in Kazakhstan -- one of two acres, one of five acres -- a total of seven acres. We're assigning 67 acres of land. The hotel is being built for 45 acres. On these 45-odd acres, Kazakhstan gives us seven acres of land in exchange for the debt of the hotel built! Look, I'm reading from the law proposal. The reasons for the savings of the debt, sir, he says: the price of the tree, the forest villagers' development revenues, the logging erosion control, the cost of illegal annual income, tax, painting, and other mandatory fees... so he built the hotel, took the goods with the carrot, put the hotel in place over 45 acres of land, and there's no question about that. So..... Sir, for seven years we've allowed this to be a sleep-a-sleep. So this one's got a little bit of debt saved up for 10 million liras. Let's save this $10 million. It'll look good on the AKP! I applaud you from here, congratulations, all of you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0089par0609	The power that performs the peasant...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0090par0610	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0091par0611	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0090par0612	A friend from the AKP Group has just said that talks were held and accepted by the Foreign Affairs Commission. So, he said in the Foreign Affairs Commission that it was as if our members had accepted it. In that regard, our member of the Foreign Commission would like to make a statement on this matter, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Tunca Tuskayay...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0091par0613	Yes, but, Mr. Vural, I mean, there's no such thing as accepting something that's been accepted in the commission.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0090par0614	Sir, the commission has agreed to...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0091par0615	Most of the time, it might have been accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0090par0616	A matter accepted by the Commission... is meant to be accepted by members of the Commission...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0091par0617	It doesn't mean...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0090par0618	In that respect, the statement that this is not the case...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0092par0619	I didn't say vote.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0091par0620	I think your statement is enough. I mean, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0092par0621	I didn't say unanimous.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0093par0622	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0092par0623	Mr. President, I didn't say "voyal union."
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0093par0624	A member of the Commission has accepted a commission. He has the right to explain whether he is a member of the Commission or not. It's a tease. Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0092par0625	No... Mr. President, I didn't say "voyal union" in my statement. I just said it's accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0094par0626	Now, wait a second...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0092par0627	I just said it's agreed.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0094par0628	One moment, sir... Who's our Commissioner friend?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0095par0630	Mr. Tunca Tuskayay.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0094par0631	Here you go, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0096par0632	There's no such thing as teasing!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0097par0633	What kind of teasing, sir? I didn't say vote.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0094par0634	I'll give you one, one second, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0098par0635	But you didn't say "Muhafet" either. You didn't say... you didn't.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0094par0636	Yeah, now... okay, guys... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0099par0639	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, I've been a member of the Foreign Commission for two semesters, along with my dear friends. This is the first interesting thing we've come across. I mean, this deal doesn't have anything to hold on to. As a representative of the National Movement Party, I also sent my opposition to the President in writing. What part of this agreement should we hold? If you ask, you will find no place to hold it. The amount of land assigned to the 1993 protocol is about 45 acres, with which 45 acres are raised to 67 acres. So the people who built this hotel also passed the assigned land protocol in 1993. Two: The amendment protocol for the first amendment of the protocol states that this land has been assigned for forty-nine years. When the time is up, it will be renewed again at the same time. This means that right now, you give full ownership of the land to the Kazakh and Turkish companies who run it. He doesn't even say "renewable," he says "he'll be exhausted." However, in 1993, there is a sentence that says: "When forty-nine years are filled, the land will be sent to the treasure with its own property. You remove it and it will be renewed for forty-nine years." So we've given up on this land. You say. Now, there's nothing to defend. As for the commission... some things I don't do, unfortunately, but... we have to be clear here. The statement of our AKP MPs is that there is such a funeral ahead of us, but with an international agreement, we are removing this funeral. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President has also agreed, let's not say "Cenaze." He said, "Let's not say "enakaz." I'm sorry, we're not taking this funeral. Why don't you go ahead and take your funeral?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0100par0646	Thank you, Mr. Tuskaya. Now, the third speaker on the Republican People's Party proposal is Mr. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0101par0653	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I mean, it's really weird, when I read it, I was surprised, I didn't understand. Now, I'm even more terrified that your friends here are telling you about the events on the Commission. You know why I didn't get it first? Mr. Osman just counted the debts and everything. One, was this company assigned by the Kazakhstan government to invest there, or did it just come and do it on its own? I mean, if Kazakhstan's getting the government to tender it himself, why are you paying him taxes, why are you making him sign up for it? How did you figure out 9 million and change? If a debt like this comes out, isn't it a private business, not a violation of treasure property? I mean, before we wake the funeral, I think we should give him a ticket, then you can take him to the funeral. I'm really surprised. An agreement you made with a government, an agreement with the state of Kazakhstan, they made a tender, and if they gave it, they made something of themselves. So, now, Mr. Tuskaya said, 45 acres, 67 acres, and you add 22 acres. Now, I don't know what kind of private company you'd be giving treasured land for free. And it's not forty-nine years, it's forty-nine years, indefinitely! So, now, why did we make this deal then? We have relations with Kazakhstan, they're coming, they're coming, they're coming here in summer, we're having meetings with the Turkish Republics, we've made an agreement to make a mutual gesture in this framework, and we've assigned this place. So, did he do it somewhere beyond where he was given now? Why don't you tell me all about it? I mean, I don't know where this hotel was built. After this hotel was built, does it have no control for five years, six years, from 2005 to 2012? No building inspection, no registration? If you don't do something in the Republic of Turkey, if you don't do an embassy, if you don't give them an assigned space, we can't take care of our own land. A citizen builds a slum, you wash it down. Why? Because there's been an invasion of treasure property. Now, we want a lot of money from everyone because of 2/B, but people can't afford it. How come now, in Belter County, in a place like Beldibi, I mean a 100 acres, 200 acres of stuff, these are huge numbers. So it's 67 acres; you're adding 22 to the previous one, you're giving 45. How much is 22 acres worth there? Have you done any calculations, how much did the previous allocations go for? Dear friends, this is a very troubling thing, it's completely illegal, but I can't find a word to really express by bringing this in and using the Turkish Parliament for it. I mean, let's just say there's something going on with the Kazakhstan government, but there's a private company investing in it. Why are you interfering as a government, and in addition to that, you're using the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Whatever his punishment is, collect whatever irregularity is, and if he doesn't pay, take his money. If we have land to allocate to the state of Kazakhstan, let's reassign it for 500 years, indefinitely. I don't really understand what you're trying to do with it. Dear friends, let tourism come to Antalya in this sense. If he wants the same business, you can make an allocation elsewhere. If our friends are going to make a hotel, then open it up, pay the price, get the license, give the government his tuition, taxes. We do. If you encourage everyone, let them have a miscarriage, and we have no objection to that. But, on the one hand, the number of tourists is increasing. If our average tourism revenues are dropping, and the 2007-2012 Tourism Action Plan you've prepared has expired, if it hasn't been implemented yet, what are we going to talk about if the Tourism Minister of Tourism has changed after that, even the draft of the Tourism framework bill, which is the first article of the Action Plan, has changed into a bill? I mean, that's something I don't understand. In fact, look, there are a lot of laws out here. I told you yesterday, you work us every day to create a bilingual, bi-communist state here. Isn't the drafting of the tourism framework law important to you? You say "Cari" is the most important problem. If one of the most unlikely reasons for the Cari deficit is tourism revenue, why don't we bring in the tourist framework law and get it out here? Then we replace him, here, in order to correct the wrong done, we block the agenda of the House, the agenda of the Foreign Commission, the agenda of the General Assembly. Bring it to us, and we'll get this tourist framework law instead. We'll take whatever you can get us, no! Look, I'm telling you, the Ministry of 2007-2012 has a plan of action, and I've asked a dozen times, it's 2013, there's no draft. Dear friends, what are we doing? We're trying to work out a deal here by bringing one of the firm's irregularities into interstate law. There is much to be done in Antalya. In particular, I'd like to say, on this occasion, about tourism... there's really not much to say about it, it's obvious what it is, what our friends are saying. Please, I think it's best to review this before the General Assembly is here, and the law is waiting. In fact, there's nothing to defend in that sense, not even the part to talk about, let alone the way it's supposed to be explained. Dear friends, look, I've just told you, we're not against tourism investments, but let's allocate it to whoever we're giving it to, transparent, competitively, whatever price we're giving it to. If there's going to be an incentive, then you're going to have to give everyone the same incentive. Why don't we do the same for the other hotel? I don't see him anywhere in this agreement, in the previous agreement, or in any of the information. Where is this hotel built, where is the square meter we've given them, where is it that we've assigned them, which side of it you've given them completely new? It's just, it's a joint plot. It's all it talks about, nothing else. It's on the grounds of the law. Antalya has the potential to be a world city, but it's not going to work with this unplanned construction, by being nice to someone, by investing in them, friends. And yet, in the framework of an environmental order plan, a world city of Antalya was still not designed, unfortunately. We're looking, when I ran for mayor in 2004, I shared an Antalya city vision with my friends, with all of Antalya public opinion. In the slogan of Antalya, the Four Seasons, we had a vision of a truly sustainable tourism that included the entire environmental order, the shifting of the city centre. Now that I'm looking at it, it's been over ten years, we're still dealing with such irregularities. Meanwhile, there are serious complaints coming from Antalya, dear friends, about the water supply we're thinking of bringing up today. Mr. Secretary, our citizens have serious problems here, as well, with the detection of water resources. They say there's going to be a serious burden on the citizens here. I'll pass on a question motion to Mr. Eroglu as well as to the ministers when they arrive. Therefore, our citizens, the agricultural chambers, have concerns in order to be paid for them tomorrow. They think the cost of measurement equipment is to be insured, and then they think it will bring some costs. They say, "Let the state support us on this." They say, "Dear friends, and you know this process ends on February 25th." For at least two years, they demand that it be extended at least until this practice is over. Again, this Beldibi region has its problems here in the city of Iconium, and our citizens have their problems with the quarry. And since this is about water resources again, let me just say it's about tourism in this frame. They say that water sources are licensed under the name of the miner's license to open quarryes where there are water wells. One of them was stopped by the court, but somehow he's coming to Ankara, and he's supposed to get his signature from 17-18 places, but he's got to take a pop and come back without a proper analysis. And in terms of human health, our chiefs, our NGOs there, our agricultural rooms. Of course, let the construction industry continue, and we have no objection to that. Just as tourism requires a quarry if it's to be invested, but I think it's also necessary to reassemble where it should be, in accordance with the rules set by the Ministry of Environment, without going behind it, without cheating against the law in various ways. To become the world city of Antalya, first of all, we need a tourism framework bill. The draft turns into a bill, hopefully, so that we don't discuss it, we'll do it all in that tourism plan, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0102par0671	Mr. Günal, thank you. Members of parliament, now, on the Republican People's Party Group proposal, the final speaker, Mr. Volcano Bozkır. Mr. Moor, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0675	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, we have a problem with the fact that we have MPs here, the MPs who submitted this motion, and I think they can't make the necessary disclosure between the two events.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0104par0676	Well, we don't want to advertise, we're all in favor of unity.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0677	Mr. Horseman is a really valuable pediatrician and a very hardworking, well-intentioned member of our Foreign Commission who contributes a great deal. However, foreign policy matters are subject to a separate skill, a separate education. As I am surprised by the analysis of a child's childhood illness, I do not find it surprising that Mr. Pitcher was also surprised when he saw a text on foreign policy issues.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0104par0678	Foreign policy text or investment text?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0679	It's only natural. When we looked at our lawmakers who submitted this motion for investigation, even though there were three foreign policy-based deputies in the Republican People's Party, who had spent their years on it, and I didn't see one of them in these signatures, in a sense, I believed that what I just said was true. Now, look, are we discussing good relations with a country about foreign policy here? Are we talking about the conclusion of an agreement between the President of Turkey's very important friend, or are we simply talking about a city's construction permit, which is this, are we talking about them? Now we have to make that distinction here. We need to look in the woods. We can't decide about the forest by looking at the trees, and when we look at the trees, we damage the forest. Now, let's take a look at the forest first. Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in the world with a face measurement of 2.7 million square kilometers; indeed, one of the richest countries in the world with its resources is a country with nuclear power. When Turkey meets Kazakhstan's leaders, we say: Two states are one nation; we are born of you, you are born of us. When the two presidents meet, they sit and talk like brothers, ever since they gained their independence. Well, I'm amazed at how it's possible to take such good-meaning steps in order to ensure that these Kazakhstan-Turkey relations are good, and not to harm these relationships. Really, look, our trade volume between Turkey and Kazakhstan is $4 billion. Turkish investors' investments in Kazakhstan are $17 billion. We aim to increase our trade volume to $10 billion in 2015. Turkey has received 568 Kazakh student scholarships so far. 1,800 Turkish companies do business in various areas in Kazakhstan today.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0105par0686	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0687	There's no way we can forget all this. In very important projects, Turkey plans alternative railway routes to connect Central Asia, China, subcontinental markets; it strives to connect Kazakhstan to all these corridors.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0106par0688	Come to your claims, your claims... We're not discussing relations with Kazakhstan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0689	Now this is the forest. While this is the forest, let's look at the trees. Now, when Kazakhstan gained its independence, in 1993, then President Süleyman Demirel, then Prime Minister Tansu Ciller, then Foreign Minister...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0107par0691	Get over there, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0692	Hikmet Cetin, a member of the SHP, is signing this protocol, and this protocol provides Kazakhstan with such an opportunity. The goal is to create an environment where he can stay with his family and feel at home when he comes to Turkey to the President of Kazakhstan. Years go by, in 2001, when Kazakhstan builds its own guesthouse, it builds part of it as a hotel to cover its expenses...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0108par0693	40 acres...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0107par0694	Part of it? He gave me two acres, honey.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0696	...and in this way, a situation emerges entirely in the self-sustainment of Kazakhstan. A speaker, who is taking a stand here, who will be the most sensitive about Central Asia during the construction of this hotel's real estate, who has not been looking at the forest, has spoken or received a medal from Kazakhstan, while a distinguished member of our Foreign Commission, neither has a member of the National Movement Party voiced out in the Commission nor dared to listen to what I just said while I was here.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0107par0698	What's that got to do with anything, Mr. Bozır?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0699	So, now, here, I actually mentioned a wreck when I was talking on the Commission. After all this happened, in 2005...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0109par0700	Don't insult Kazakhstan, Mr. Volcano.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0701	...because the Treasury Department saw something was wrong with the case. After the Ministry of Finance intervened, such a conclusion was concluded that in order not to disturb the relations between Turkey and Kazakhstan, opportunities were sought, formulas were created -- that all ministries could come together -- in order not to hurt those relations, in order not to offend a country called our brother, our president. Now, here, the actions of a government that actually takes over the wreck are being criticised, and the owners of the wreckage are being criticized, and that's what's to be looked at, and that's what's to be looked at. Now, there's been some talk here. Once in the Commission, Osman Love was accepted into the Commission. When he said, "Look, my brother was accepted in the Commission." We have lawmakers who put opposition to that. When a law is adopted in the General Assembly, there is nothing binding about the entire Assembly; it binds the voters; it is the way of any vote. A speaker, who was quoted before me - looked at the event from the perspective of tourism investment. This has nothing to do with tourism investment, this is a completely dedicated area to the government of Kazakhstan, the President of Kazakhstan. There was a construction in Kazakhstan...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0110par0705	Then why did you take out a tax debt? Why did you borrow money from the IRS? Why did the IRS borrow money, Mr. Bozır?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0706	Now, of course, those who don't really know about it, those who don't understand foreign policy, say...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0111par0707	Is there any foreign policy? Is the Vienna Convention in place?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0708	Sir, let's find those responsible, grab them by the ear and punish them. Are we going to hold the President of Kazakhstan by the ear and punish him? What kind of foreign policy would that be?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0112par0709	What makes you think of nine million?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0111par0710	If that's the foreign policy you know, God forbid he doesn't know.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0711	How can we take a step that would harm a country we call our brothers and sisters? So here, in foreign policy or in any international issue, they're in very different places. International law has no police, international law has no judgment.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0112par0712	You will not punish Kazakhstan; you will punish the investor, the investor!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0713	I would expect something that would disturb the President of Kazakhstan, that would cause such trouble, that, in the entire House, the MPs who would respect the uncertainty of the matter, the privacy of the matter would come out and make noise here. I'm afraid it's not my place to say that here, and I'm afraid that what he has to say isn't exactly what he's supposed to say.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0113par0714	Who should say what, Mr. President, who?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0103par0715	...as President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, and on behalf of myself, I wanted to make it clear. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0114par0718	So there's no opening.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0115par0719	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0116par0720	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0117par0721	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0115par0722	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0116par0723	In his speech, Mr. Bozır, the members of the wreck criticize this practice from the platform. He has accused the Republican People's Party of responsible for such a wreck, I must say, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0115par0724	Here you go, sir. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0116par0728	Mr. President, I'm amazed at some of your sentences while listening to Mr. Bozır. Mr. Bozır says this is a matter of foreign policy, it takes skill, it takes expertise. So why didn't the foreign policy experts of the Republican People's Party speak here? Mr. Bozır, valued MPs, this is a matter of rant, not foreign policy; that is the issue. So, those of you who know foreign policy, in fact, may have a hard time interpreting this event. The event is that in 1993, the government of the period allocated a land to Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan's President, to build a guesthouse in Antalya Kemuk, to develop Turkey-Kazakistan relations. That's the intention. There's no debris from that period to this period. During your time, this land was not used or used in accordance with its purpose. He's been assigned to a tourist investor, invested in tourism, built a hotel. What needs to be done is to really remove this debris, to remove that allocation. [[Applause from CHP rows, laughing from AK PARTY rows]] Laugh, my dear friend. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, unless you remove this allocation, you are a partner in this rank, this irregularity. International agreements can't be made to hide irregularities, and you did. In this way, you also violated the rule of law of the Constitution. He will be moved to the Supreme Court if you attempt to enforce this international agreement. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0118par0736	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Dear friends, now, one moment...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0119par0738	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0118par0739	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0119par0740	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0120par0741	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0118par0742	Only the ones who are interested...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0119par0743	Okay, sir, just a minute...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0118par0744	Excuse me... for example, Mr. Tanal, there's nothing about you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0121par0745	My interest is...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0119par0746	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0121par0747	Right in the middle, I'm interested because...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0122par0748	No, no, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0121par0749	Look...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0122par0750	Please. Mr. Vural, please, sir, two minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0123par0752	Mr. President, wait a minute... I haven't asked for a word yet. Mr. President, unfortunately, the President of the Commission, Turkey-Kazakistan, has made a statement that would harm their international relations, has harmed the individual himself, and trying to cover such a conundrum with relations with Kazakhstan will also condemn Kazakhstan. Therefore, pay attention to your words. What we desire is not related to what you speak of. In this regard, according to statements by our friends of the Foreign Commission that their statements do not understand foreign policy, our Foreign Commission member, Mr. Tunca Tuskaya, will teach foreign policy. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0124par0757	We don't need lessons.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0125par0758	I'm sure he'll have an explanation, not a lecture.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0123par0759	Yeah, yeah, it's not teaching; it's because he's a teacher.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0125par0760	Here you go, Mr. Tuskaya.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0126par0764	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's not my place to lecture anyone, but some things have to be made up. The Turkish foreign policy is technically run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it is the politicians who are the judges of Turkish foreign policy and who draw their strategy. When we look at the matter like this, everyone on that Commission speaks their opinion on Turkish foreign policy, displays their approach. I don't think it's right for any of us to accuse or accuse each other of inadequacy, Mr. President. Second: As the Nationalist Movement Party, we, as our party's ideology, take great interest in our relations with the Turkish Republics of Central Asia and Kazakhstan in particular, but when you mix it with this, you try to put the spear in the sack. We, Mr. Süleyman Demirel, are very respectful of the area assigned by Mr. Demirel, consider it a gesture of the Republic of Turkey's state to Kazakhstan. I also stated in my opposition to your position that the land that was dedicated to this purpose should be decompositioned, disassembled, and the land that was invested in tourism. When you put the two together, it's necessary to see this process as hiding some trade relations under the shield of an international agreement. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0127par0769	Thank you, Mr. Tuskaya.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0128par0770	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0129par0771	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0130par0772	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I have a brief statement regarding my direct speech.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0131par0773	One second, sir, one second.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0132par0774	You have to promise.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0131par0775	I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0133par0777	Mr. President, sir, there's been talks on behalf of the groups, responses have been made. Four to four, sir?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0134par0778	We don't speak for groups, we speak for ourselves, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0133par0779	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, then everyone will speak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0134par0780	Mr. Canikli speaks for himself as a speaker, not on behalf of the group. Please don't stress the mood.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0133par0781	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0135par0782	No harm, no foul, sir; I'll take a look, I'll take a look.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0136par0783	Mr. President, can you reboot my time? Friends haven't.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0135par0784	Friends, please let's hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0136par0788	Thank you, Mr. President. I was really surprised when I listened to Mr. Bozır, so it has nothing to do with foreign policy, Mr. Bozır. You may know foreign policy, you've come from inside; we don't know that we don't, so I've been in the National Bank's Office of Foreign Relations for many years, while I've also been Assistant Secretary General of the European Union and General Directors of Foreign Economic Relations from the end, but this is a runt project. The National Movement Party is not a group that you can lecture on relations with Kazakhstan. I'm sorry. And this has nothing to do with him. I told you, come, give Kazakhstan 100 acres indefinitely if you want, but what a tourism company does, you say, it has nothing to do with it. So, how did you figure out that nine million? Do you ever get taxed, taxed, or taxed in the area of diplomatic immunity for a state? If it's foreign policy, why are you taxing me? How did you calculate that nine million? He says, "Look, I'm reading the statement on the basis of the Law, and the reason for the Law you brought in says: "What does this have to do with foreign policy?" Look, you're the reason, that's the reason for the law's presentation. I mean, there's a job out of context, and you're being punished. I didn't understand that either, and if a business did it out of context, I was hoping you'd answer the question I was asking. You know diplomacy, or I ask you again, why do you want this from the state of Kazakhstan? You're going to have to ask him to do it, whatever company did it. That's what I said as Plan and Budget Commissioner. The thing about taxes on the subject is that no one is charged, and no one who does not comply is taken away from him who transgresses his purpose. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, please, let's isolate these, not mix them together, and thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0137par0794	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Now, dear friends, we have to stop this.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0138par0796	Yeah, the same thing over and over again on the same subject...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0137par0797	First of all, Mr. Horseman, you go ahead. And...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0139par0799	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0137par0800	Mr. Tanal, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0139par0801	Sir, this motion has my signature on it. Mr. Hatip Bozır said: "Those who sign these signs don't understand this. " According to Article 69, we are here to...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0140par0802	There's no such thing, Mr. President, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0139par0803	...and I've got my signature right here.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0140par0804	Mr. President, there's no bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0139par0805	That's why I want you to promise me that.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0141par0806	Now, Mr. Tanal has teased everyone who's been signed. It's a very broad interpretation. Now, I made a promise to the group's deputy president, and Mr. Shooter has already spoken as the group's spokesman.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0139par0807	See what the signees say.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0141par0808	If you'll excuse me, we'll talk. And I'm going to make a promise to my friend from the diplomatic mission, and if you'll excuse me, I'll finish.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0139par0809	In that case, I will open a discussion of your attitude in accordance with Article 63. You're being biased.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0141par0810	Okay, you can open it; you can open it if you want. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0142par0813	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, it is true that I am a pediatrician. Whether I'm a good physician or not, the citizens will appreciate it. I don't understand foreign policy, and I've accepted it, and I don't understand it. Well, as a pediatrician, how can you not see me as a diplomat when I've seen the stench of this agreement? It's worse if you saw it and had to come and defend it here. The fact that you haven't seen this shows your professional incompetence. It's not my place to evaluate your profession, but if you say I didn't see it. If I see it as an ordinary citizen, and the people watching us on TV see it and understand it, you have to come out as a Turkish diplomat and say, "Yes, that's wrong." Look, guys, we're not still discussing the law that's been here. We say there's something dirty like this, come on, let's look into it. If there's so much talk, then there's something really bad. Come on, let's investigate. Put your hands up, let's face it, set up a research commission and look into it. If we're wrong, okay, we say you're right. If you're right, fine, but this has to be investigated in every dimension. Dear friends, we don't abuse good intentions. My good name is 45 acres of land that were originally given. We clapped. It was given in our time. Good. The bad step is that you lure this land to someone else, and then after that, after that, you put it in your book with a legal cover. That's not true. Now, is Kazakhstan guilty? We don't know. Maybe the Turkish side said, "Go build the hotel here and I'll take care of it." How do we know? Why do you blame Kazakhstan? In no way can you blame Kazakhstan. So, let's find out who's guilty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But you're probably to blame, which you're not. What can I say?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0143par0821	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Korutuk, here you are, sir. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0144par0825	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the speaker -- Mr. Bozır -- said there were three veteran diplomats from Foreign Affairs at the Republican People's Party, who did not sign this research motion. That's not true. We didn't sign because during the meeting at the Foreign Commission that day, the three of us were on other missions outside Ankara, not because we weren't there. There's one thing Mr. Bozkir has always said in the Grand National Assembly, both in television and in television: the issues of external affairs are different issues, diplomacy is complicated, and you don't understand that. And I'll tell you, as a man of authority, everyone understands diplomacy, everyone understands foreign policy. This shouldn't be such a big deal. Discretion is enough to understand foreign policy. Apart from being reasonable, of course, it would require a savings and experience, but in the opinion of Mr. Bozkir, as far as I'm concerned, his own party, his own administration, his own government doesn't agree. Look, be careful, the assignment abroad is being made by outsiders by your government. A lot of people who don't know diplomacy, who don't understand diplomacy, are appointed ambassadors from outside to university professors, from the assistant tourist attache to the university professor. If Mr. Bozkir thinks so, let him tell the Prime Minister first, and let him tell the Foreign Minister first; then he will come to his fellow deputies after him, and you will not understand. What I'm trying to tell you is that the Republican People's Party's diplomat-rooted lawmakers agree with this motion for research, believe that the motion for research was given to correct a very wrong job, and they think that correcting this wrong would bring honor to the Grand National Assembly. From what I've heard from my friends, even members of the Justice and Development Party of the Foreign Affairs Commission have expressed difficulty in discussing this with the Foreign Commission. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0145par0832	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0146par0834	Mr. President, of course, since this is our signature on the motion, Mr. Bozır, orator, he teased us in his speech, they don't understand... You said you wouldn't promise me, so I'd like to open up a legal debate on your position under Article 63 of the Civil Code, and I'd like to take your word against that request.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0145par0836	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0837	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0145par0838	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0839	A moment ago, the speaker stated that this was being pulled against our government...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0148par0840	That's right.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0149par0841	That's right.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0842	I'd like to talk to you about a challenge, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0150par0843	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0151par0844	Sir, it's against you, Mr. Celal Adan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0845	In favor, Mr. President, in favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0150par0846	Lehte... Against you, Celal Adan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0848	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0150par0849	In Polish, yes...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0852	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, when was the name of the allocation made and by whom? That's the punch line. If there really is a rant transfer of what they're saying, as expressed, then this point needs to be answered, or that's the punch line, that's the key question. When was this allocation made to that company, and who made the allocation?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0152par0854	The firm hasn't been mentioned.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0153par0855	Say it, say it, say your name.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0856	The collection was made in 2001. The government of Kazakhstan, who's been collecting, who's going to have to run it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0154par0857	It's protocol!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0858	That's what happened. So it's not the allocation of any ministry, an institution in Turkey, a public institution, a tender. So how can you blame our government or blame any ministry? What kind of logic is that? Because with the international contract...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0155par0859	Collections are used according to the purpose of allocation. There's a general rule in the collections.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0156par0860	Except for the purpose of the collection...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0861	Excuse me, friends, please...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0156par0862	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0863	If you'll excuse me, please... we listened to you. This is pure slander. The government of Kazakhstan, which was assigned in 2001. Why? The use of this land is allocated to the government of Kazakhstan under international contract.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0156par0865	When was the hotel built, the hotel?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0866	He's in charge, we're not in charge, we're not in charge.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0156par0867	When was the hotel built?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0157par0868	In 2001, in 2001...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0869	The hotel was built in 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0156par0870	Tell me when the hotel was built. The hotel was built when the collection was made, right?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0871	Yeah, that's what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying. In 2005, the hotel and finance department, which was built in 2001...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0156par0872	The residence, the residence...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0158par0873	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0874	Allow me. Look, the work that's been done...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0158par0876	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0877	In 2005, he stated that the work was against the agreement, that the government of Kazakhstan could not build such a hotel, that he could not operate it, and the tax penalty came on the agenda. That's it, that's it. Dear friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We didn't build the hotel, we didn't allocate it, or our government did.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0159par0881	Which hotel, which hotel?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0882	The government of Kazakhstan, he's in charge, he's the one who built the hotel.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0160par0883	What's the name of the hotel?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0147par0884	It doesn't matter. The government of Kazakhstan, who gave it to him, is in charge.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0161par0885	Thank you, Mr. Canikli. Against you, Mr. Tanal, please. In two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0162par0888	I want a word, too, in favor of the procedural debate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0161par0889	Sir, four can be promised, in favor and against.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0162par0890	Okay, I want it in favor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0161par0891	It's written here, given to everyone. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0163par0893	Mr. President, since I want it against you, I need to speak to whoever's in favor of the Undersecretary of the Civil Code first, and then I need to speak to him.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0161par0894	He's already spoken in favor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0164par0895	No, I wanted to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0165par0896	I asked for words of arrogance. He says, "Let there be no confusion."
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0161par0897	You, too, will speak against yourselves.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0166par0898	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Canikli, you can't blame us, how much land did you buy in Kazakhstan because of the debt owed to Turkey? Where was this detected?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0167par0900	The tax debt is due to Kazakhstan's debts to Turkey. It's a tax debt.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0166par0901	Our Turkish peasant, when our worker is in debt, you're impounding his house, his land, his tractor. Why don't you repossess that hotel's assets? Why don't you repossess business revenues? Look, Mr. Bozır Bey speaking in exchange and trampa style... sir, there are no police in the international contract... so you're used to it, you're used to it, aren't you? In what international contract did it become a diplomatic contract to build a hotel? I've studied international law, I've studied interstate law. In no diplomatic contract, there has been no declaration of diplomatic procedure in any state to build a hotel. If Mr. Bozır says making an international hotel is a diplomatic business, then we've obviously been wrong, you've represented our country abroad. Number two: land and trampa... you are impounding your village, land, tractor, salary, due to the tax debt of our Turkish citizens, why didn't you go to the hotel foreclosure? Where did you get cash, cash, money, which you mentioned in Kazakhstan, which didn't cost money in the middle of the mountain? It's a mystery... I'm complaining to Turkey, I'm complaining to the Turkish people, you can't handle it. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0168par0906	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0169par0907	Do you know where the embassy property is?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0166par0908	You're impounding the peasant's pension, you're impounding his diesel!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0168par0909	Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Mr. Tanal, please... please... Here you go, Mr. Kubat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0170par0914	Mr. President, I find that the esteemed MPs have made a commitment in favor of the procedural debate. I salute you all. Now, dear friends, ideas are coming out. As a result, the place that was mentioned was given a conditional allocation in 93 to the Republic of Kazakhstan to be used as a health and resting facility. Once again, when we look at that protocol, this building and its client will not benefit from diplomatic privilege and immunity. Now, in 1996, the government of that period brought this protocol to the House and approved it. Here, the hotel was built by a tourist who is currently on the subject of a bet. It was taken into business in 2001, according to our data.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0171par0917	2005.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0170par0918	2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0171par0919	2005.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0172par0920	It wasn't taken in 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0173par0921	Collection 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0171par0922	Collection 2001, business 2005.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0174par0923	Dear friends, allocation... Now, such problems in interstate bilateral relations may also be a misusing from the Republic of Kazakhstan. We're trying to fix this. So, if there's a little bit of constructive... infractions and so forth, the authorities of the Turkish authorities, of course, will follow, in terms of license, sir, administratively.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0171par0925	Let them do it, let them do it first.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0174par0926	But what can be done about the place where a foreign country is legally assigned to a foreign country and has to give its use to a person, to a private firm, to a private company, and what can be done now, and what can be done right now? So, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0171par0928	How do you know he was given to Kazakhstan? Maybe Mr. Recep gave it to you. What do you know?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0174par0929	Guys, look, there's no need to shout here, we're explaining our ideas here, we're trying to find the truth.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0171par0930	Maybe Mr. Recep gave it to you. What do you know?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0174par0931	If there's a mistake, the High Council will fix it. That's the issue in this House, in the Commission. Therefore, I'm in favor of Mr. President's attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0175par0934	Thank you. Congressmans, our position against you, Mr. Celal Adan. Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0176par0938	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We fully support the will set in the past for the President of Kazakhstan. Let's not talk about the President of Kazakhstan, the state of Kazakhstan, the will to lead a score, a thalana. They've assessed 22 acres, that's true, and we support that. But now, the relations with the government of that company that brought 45 acres to 67 acres -- the construction of a hotel that was known all over the world -- 12 years ago -- near Syria, you know, sometimes you say, the Turkish Armed Forces -- are making some statements about the Turkish Armed Forces -- when they were captured, Turkey's intestines were gutted. A commander of the Turkish Armed Forces, you call it, showed a will in the borders of Syria. The bandit said, "You have him; they delivered him, and they could not protect him." Now, where did your genius in foreign policy get us, Turkey? Turkey, which NATO has protected against Syria! And I want you to know that with what power you've come up with in foreign policy, we're watching it like a freak. Now, this company is building a hotel. The President of the Commission has just made a statement, which offends Kazakhstan. You said you made the effort to pay for the place assigned to the President of Kazakhstan. If it were in Europe or something, the president would resign, and there would be a great deal of trouble. You watch your language, we support the will to be done to the President of Kazakhstan, but there is a company, known publicly as the Justice and Development Party's company. Don't assign this hotel to this company.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0177par0944	That's right.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0178par0945	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0179par0946	Mr. President, I asked for word in favor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0178par0947	Now, the conversation about your attitude is complete.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0179par0948	No, Mr. President, I wanted a word in favor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0178par0949	I promise you, sir, let's conclude this.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0180par0950	Why? He just said he spoke. He spoke in Polish, there are reports...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0179par0951	Mr. President, that's when I got the promise of teasing.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0181par0952	The sequel to Article 63 of the Civil Code states... We had this discussion first.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0182par0954	Sir, that's what I'm saying, Mr. Tanal, if you'd just sit down and listen to me, it'd be fine.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0181par0955	But you...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0182par0956	That's what I'm saying. Sit down.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0181par0957	I'm listening.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0182par0958	According to Article 69, I believe our attitude is beyond mutual commitment, and we will continue to negotiate in this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0181par0960	You guys shouldn't have...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0182par0961	Just a moment, sir. Now, the Deputy Director of the Group wants to speak according to 69. Here, let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0181par0963	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0183par0964	The hotel is the AKP's guesthouse, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0184par0965	Mr. Canikli, explain to me who was left there.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0185par0968	Dear friends, if there's a runt, if there's a runt, as you claim, the scenario of this rate was written in 1993.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0186par0969	Okay, let's look into it. Let's look into it, it'll all come out.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0185par0970	If there is a rant, the implementation of this scenario was performed from 1993 to 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0187par0971	Let's investigate, let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0188par0972	Then let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0187par0973	Set up the commission, let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0189par0974	The board of directors...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0190par0975	Let's find out what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0191par0976	If there's a runt... because the hotel was built between 1993 and 2001... until 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0192par0977	No, it's wrong, no, it's wrong.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0193par0978	Let's investigate, don't run!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0194par0979	Let's look into it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0195par0980	Let's investigate, the men say.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0196par0981	When was it assigned? You didn't like it, did you? When was it assigned? It was assigned in 2001. [[Let's search the CHP and the MHP lines. Let's hear it from the AK PARTY.]] Where's the AK PARTY, where's the AK PARTY? In 1993, the author of the script -- from 1993 to 2001 -- was assigned to no one in 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0197par0985	Let's look into it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0198par0986	Let's find out, and the truth will come out.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0199par0987	Don't run, let's investigate. Is he eating?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0200par0988	Where?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0201par0989	The hotel was built before 2001, which was dedicated to that company in 2001. That's right, that's right. What happened? Now, come on out, apologize, come out and apologize.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0202par0991	Okay, fine, let's look into it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0203par0992	Everything came out, everything.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0204par0993	If you're brave, let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0205par0994	Look, if there's a runt, it's almost everyone but the AK PARTY that's responsible, we're out, but we're out. Yeah, is there an AK PARTY between 1993 and 2001? No. We're correcting it, and in 2005, the Finance Ministry was wronged, which is against the law. It is you who have done it, and it is you who have done it, and it is We who have done it, and it is We who have done it. It's a shame. It's a shame. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0204par0996	Where was he till now? Where was the Minister of Finance so late?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0205par0997	I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0206par0999	Thank you. Dear friends, let's just make a promise to the members of the group and get this over with. I'm going to vote now. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0207par1002	No, Mr. President, I want a direct word because my words have been distorted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0206par1003	But it's the third time I've given it to you, Mr. Horseman, so I can't give it to you all the time. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0207par1004	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0206par1005	For the third time I agree with you, explain what you've explained. Mr. Vural, please, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0207par1007	Then I have no claim to give a speech, but I'll talk to you until morning if you get bullied like this.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0206par1008	Okay, I'll give it to you anyway, but just so you know, it's the third time, it's the fourth time, so I mean,
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0207par1009	Thirty-three times, not three.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0206par1010	It happens all the time. I'll give it to you later. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1015	Thank you. Mr. President, today's debate has nothing to do with the Republic of Kazakhstan. As the National Movement Party, we have always taken positions in addition to developing relations with Kazakhstan.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0209par1017	Yes, we see your position!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1018	I believe that all members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey favour the development of the relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey. Now, here's a historic opportunity ahead of the AKP. When it is clear that this is not about Kazakhstan, the speakers who question an allocation to Kazakhstan were first made in 2001, 1993, if they were sincere.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0210par1020	We did what we had to do. We've done our part as the AK PARTY government.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1021	Come on, don't let it get to you. If you stay nameless. (AK PARTY) You're the name... look, I'm saying you're the man.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0211par1022	You're the one!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0212par1023	Busted!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1024	You either stand by what you say or you don't.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0213par1025	Our government has done its due.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1026	We got his back, you in?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0213par1027	The government has done its due.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1028	Come on, if you're in. Here we go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0214par1029	You're caught, you're caught, you're caught red-handed.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0215par1030	Rise up and speak, if you have the heart to speak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0208par1031	Come on, get up and talk. Is there?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0216par1032	Guys, it's okay. Please, let's hear it. Mr. Horseman, give me one last statement in two minutes, and I promise you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Please, friends, please, please sit down.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0217par1036	Mr. President, I want a promise too.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0218par1037	Give it to me, give it to me.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0216par1038	Okay, come on in. Sit down and ask for it. Please... friends, sit down. Sit down. Please...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1041	Mr. President, dear friends, of course you're sinking as we speak. The more we talk, the worse you get, and you don't want us to talk.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0216par1043	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1044	Now, look, I came out here young enough to say that you're making a scene.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0220par1045	How long were you in this hotel?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0221par1046	Go ask MHP. Ask MHP.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1047	And he said, I don't know, bad... See what I'm reading, what's a turd at the Turkish Language Foundation?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0221par1049	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1050	▪ Inappropriately given for the purpose of wounding. Two: especially the gift of the rulers to one another or to the rulers. Here, you're making a sequel.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0222par1053	Who gave it to you?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0223par1054	You gave it to him in 1993.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1055	You're the one who's making the run-of-the-mill.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0222par1056	You're the one who gave it to me.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1057	Now, let's get down to history. Take a look at the historical information first.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0222par1058	Wisdom gave Cetin, and wisdom gave Cetin.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1059	Mr. Canikli, you'll be humiliated if you don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0224par1060	I know, I know the subject very well.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1061	Hikmet Cetin gave it to me in 1993, that's right.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0225par1062	Hikmet Cetin gave it to him, and MHP gave him a building permit.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0226par1063	Yilmaz, let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1064	An agreement was signed at the time. The agreement, signed at the time, was given for forty-nine years, assigned. What did you do? You give life, and you give life. Read the agreement Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0227par1066	Who is the Foreign Minister in 1993?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1067	It says: After forty-nine years, I gave you this place, and I will take it back with the buildings on it. What are you doing? You give it more land, you build another hotel. You say, "Use it forever." You say, "That's the difference between us, that's the difference between us."
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0227par1068	When was it made?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0228par1069	When was the hotel built? What year was the hotel built, the hotel? When did he open for business?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1070	Dear Canikli, I'm telling you, listen and learn.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0228par1071	I know, it was opened in 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1072	The agreement was signed in 1993.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0229par1073	It was done in 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1074	After the deal was signed, he came here in 2001 and was approved. Now, you're saying that in 2005 we realized that in 2002, you were in power, you slept for three years, you slept, you fell asleep.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0230par1075	We confiscated it, we released the punishment. The collection was made in 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1076	Then you slept another five years until 2010, and then you left, and here you are, saying, "Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0230par1079	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0231par1080	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1081	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0230par1082	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0231par1083	It's not a collection, it's a forest area.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1084	Yeah, he's got it, he's got it all. You're going to apologize to me.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0231par1085	Oh, no, not more than forty-nine years.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0219par1086	You're right, it can't be.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0232par1088	Guys, just a second, please, let's hear it. I'm going to give my last word to two groups of vice presidents, and I'm going to vote. Two minutes each, please, Mr. Slim. Let's get this over with. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1094	Thank you, Mr. President. Sure, I was out, I came in the middle of it. Mr. Canikli, there's no need to be alarmed. Such claims have happened before in this House. They went up to Ismet Pasha, and said, "You have bought free cloth from Sumerbank, and Ismet Pasha has shut up. The next day he came to this assembly, and said, "Take your bill." He said, "I have paid the bill." Now here's a bet. There's a claim that AKP MPs stay here for free. Free, free, seven-star hotel.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0234par1098	What makes you say that? We have no idea.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1099	There are two ways: one, you bring the bill to our attention. Two, you set up this commission, we'll look into it. There's no need to be afraid. There's no need to be afraid.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0235par1100	Now the invoices are electronic, not retrofitted.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1101	Two, did you make the guesthouse a hotel? Did you make the guesthouse a hotel? Ask him.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0236par1102	Ask there, over there. Ask before 2001.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0237par1103	What does 2001 have to do with anything? Don't you?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1104	There's a company that identifys with you. It's an AKP company, an AKP hotel, that's identical to you. You all have allegations that you've been there for free. There are allegations. There are allegations.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0236par1105	Shame on you! You're slandering me!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1106	If there are allegations, you set up the commission...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0238par1107	There are other allegations.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1108	You set up a commission...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0238par1109	There are other allegations.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1110	You set up a commission... It's not about all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0239par1111	Guys, let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0238par1112	There are other allegations.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1113	You build it, you build it about me. You can set it up about me, too.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0238par1114	There are other allegations here.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1115	Then set it up. You will. The allegations... There could be allegations about anyone.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0240par1116	Who's left?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0233par1117	The important thing is to set up that commission and act with courage. We do not want our relations with Kazakhstan to be bad. Did you or did you not do a favor for a group, a company here? What are you afraid of? The rule commission, let's look into it, let's all work together. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0241par1120	You have to prove the claim, Mr. Tünce. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0242par1121	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0243par1124	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, if I'm using this expression in the hotels mentioned in relation to the AK PARTI MPs -- any document, any information on the way they're free, you take it out here and you show interest. If you have a document, name it, date it, date it, in this hotel, because it's unpaid, you come out here and you talk. It's the right thing to do. If you have it, if you have it, you have it, you have it, you say it, you say it, you show it, you say that this person has stayed there for free.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0244par1125	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0243par1126	One moment, please. Did you ever say anything about such a thing? No. What did you say? There are such claims.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0245par1128	The Prime Minister has a signature.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0246par1129	Let's set up the mission and look into it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0243par1130	Look, if it comes down to it, everybody makes a bet about everybody. Is it true?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0246par1131	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0243par1132	Well, can that happen?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0246par1133	You'll set up the commission.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0243par1134	What's supposed to happen? If you go forth and show the evidence, even if it were, it would be slander, and all that has been done will be fabricated.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0246par1135	Mr. Canikli, let's set up the commission and investigate. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0247par1136	My rule is, let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0243par1137	Look, there's no such thing. So let me tell you, you're like this, you're like this, you're like this, you're like this, you're like this, you're like that about your party, you're like that about your president, and I'm going to make a motion to investigate each one of them; is that how it's supposed to be? That's not possible.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0248par1138	My rule.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0249par1139	It's my rule commission.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0250par1140	My rule.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0251par1141	No, no... please, please...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0252par1142	What kind of logic is that? Look, what would make such a claim fit into humanity...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0253par1143	What claim, here's the document. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0252par1144	That's right. Do you have a document? You don't have a document, you don't know one, you don't know who's staying... when this hotel was built, when? Look, why do you go out and deny it? This hotel was built in 2001. Tell him that. It was assigned in 1993, made in 2001. There's no such thing as a commoner.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0253par1145	In 2012, your Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0252par1146	We've never been able to go after anyone, and it's out of the question. And no one can prove it, and you can't, because you don't have anything. It's just a dry bet, nothing more.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0253par1148	The Prime Minister's signature is a dry bet?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0252par1149	I am returning these slanders to you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit01spe0254par1152	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a ten-minute break, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0254par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Bill of Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism and the Interior Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 3rd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, the votes of the first part of the bill, which was considered the main law, according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers 12 to 21, including the temporary 1. (x) 409 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to its 62nd Union Charter, dated 05/02/2013. On behalf of the groups who want to talk about the second chapter, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0255par0025	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the National Movement Party on the second part of Bill 409, the esteemed MPs of the Turkish nation. I salute your high council. The murders committed by the Armenian terrorist organisation ASALA against our diplomats, as well as the actions of the PKK terror organization, which we now know to be the founder, director, terrorist and political extension of Armenian origins, should be expressed as a state of terrorism for more than 40 years. It's not wrong to say that a topic like the prevention of financing terrorism is the most important concern of our state among the world's governments. Terror, one of the key instruments in the struggles between modern states, was used to weaken its opponent in the race between states, and was used as an excuse to establish modern colonies, emulsions. Today, as a result of a single polar world, preventing terrorism has been made the most important excuse for invading other states, controlling energy resources and corridors. The colonial states' attitude towards terrorist attacks against them is "to eliminate terror anywhere in the world, to destroy the terrorist." In its form, it is recommended for other countries to meet terrorist demands. At this point, neither the United Nations nor any of the international contracts related to terrorism from the European Union have included the definition of the state of the Republic of Turkey or any state facing Muslims. The bill, which we are discussing today, was the source of the bill, which was signed on September 27, 2001 to prevent the financing of terrorism, and has been forced to express certain reservations by our government. The definition of the first paragraph (b) of the 2nd article of the contract is "instructions aimed at threatening a people or forcing a government or an international organization to avoid or avoid any action, to kill a civilian or any other person who is not directly involved in an armed conflict." The attacks against rangers, police and soldiers, which were the direct target of the terrorist organization, were excluded from the contract. For this reason, and for some other reasons, it has been imposed upon some of the provisions of the contract. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, no doubt international cooperation is essential to the removal of terror used as an instrument for global forces. The fight against terrorism is, by nature, a multi-ethnic struggle with the elimination of terrorists through military means, the provision of prosperity through economic initiatives, the need to be made in the field of law in terms of democracy and human rights, while the use of media and communication channels, and the prevention of logistical channels of terrorism, financial resources. Based on the results of our experience in counterterrorism approaching 30 years, the Republic of Turkey has dealt with terror or riots whenever it has a critical period. Since the founding of the Republic, there have been riots and attempts in the process of resolving the Musul-Kerkuk problem, both in the transition to multi-party life and in the process of resolving the Hatay problem. These vital matters for the government have been lost among other pressing matters on the agenda. At the end of the Cold War, in the late 1980s, when the East Bloc was disbanded and the formation of the world was restored, at a time when independent Turkish states were involved, the separatist terror showed its face and occupied our state at a time when the Republic of Turkey and the Central Asian Turkish states could join forces. Perhaps terror-related unrest and the weakening influence of terror have prevented us from becoming allies with our brothers in Central Asia. In this period of the early 21st century, terrorism shows its face as it was in the past in the Middle East, when we were talking about changing regimes and maps in the Middle East under the control of energy fields, corridors, and the Great Middle East Project in our geography. Instead of preventing the Turkish state from being present at the table, or even sitting at the table, the most important tool for being held in a shared state at the table is terrorism, and of course, it is prone to betrayal, ready to be betrayed, ready to be separatist from yesterday. Respected lawmakers, one of the things we have heard most of the AKP's words during 11 years of power is that there is an important actor in the region of the Republic of Turkey and in the world. According to the official mouths of AKP governments, the prime minister is a world leader, Turkey is an important actor. In our fight against terrorism, however, AKP governments have no success with Europe and other world states at the point of unfortunately draining funding for terrorism. Although more than 80 per cent of terrorist organisations' financial resources are in member countries of the European Union, the government has no success in draining financial resources. Many of the weapons available to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are part of the Protocol Against the United Nations Convention Against Bordered Crimes. These weapons are not produced by the PKK, nor are they produced by the Geography of the PKK. Despite the fact that all materials, including heavy weapons in PKK's hands, have been manufactured in what countries and have been delivered to the terrorist organization in what ways, AKP governments have no known attempts to do so. Even at the point of the PKK being considered a terrorist organisation, there is no government-convinced state among EU countries. Especially when it comes to the capture and extradition of members of the terrorist organization to Turkey. You will not be able to adopt the PKK as a terrorist organization, you will not be able to arrest PKK terrorists in European states, and then you will talk about Turkey, a key actor among the world states. With such words, you can only deceive yourself. If the European Union states are truly sincere in preventing terrorism, if Erdoğan is highly respected, the building of three women killed in Paris has emerged as the PKK's financial centre; the AKP government must convince the government of France, which signed the agreement and that other living terrorists, other than the bodies of those three women, should be brought back to Turkey or tried in France. The AKP governments have not made the right decision in identifying the massacres of an ethnic-based separatist terrorist organization in our Geography for 11 years, nor have they made the right decision in treatment. According to the AKP's chief figure, sometimes the problem of terrorism was preferable to negotiate for eleven years instead of dealing with a spirit of mobilisation, which is often the Kurdish problem, occasionally the problem of democracy and human rights. The diagnosis was wrong, and the treatment was wrong. The AKP has made this issue a political problem, in its own mouth, by expressing terrorism as a Kurdish problem and making it a political problem. Leaving aside the other instruments of the fight against terrorism, the AKP has edited close to 20 of the known demands of separatist terrorism during its eleven-year rule. Every arrangement has caused separatist terrorism to gain speed, to gain position, to gain power. The PKK's terrorist organisation and its political extensions have keyed the Prime Minister, aligned the AKP, followed every concession with new demands. Honourable lawmakers, the bill we're negotiating includes the freezing of assets of those funding terrorism at the request of the Committee for Construction, established under the United Nations Security Council. Under the United Nations Mother Convention, sanctions can only be taken by the Security Council's decision, and only states deal with these sanctions. On the other hand, the bill we are negotiating today is aimed at implementing decisions made by a committee of officers with Security Council Resolution 1267 without a Security Council decision. It is also clear that the decisions of the Security Council committee are not binding, that only the Security Council decisions are binding. The fact that these sanctions are intended for individuals and organizations is another mistake. In addition, the freeze of the property of the person and institutions reported by this committee by an administrative decision means that the right to property is limited to contrary to the Constitution, as well as the ability to direct capital to those who are effective on the decisions of this committee. This bill, in this case, has a quality that terrifies, frightens, even destroys our national capital, foreign investors. These issues must be corrected within the bill. With these thoughts, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0256par0042	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0257par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy over the second chapter of the Bill of Law on the Financing of Terrorism 409 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the purpose of the bill has been summarized in general, in order to refer to the existence of international contracts, in order to determine the nature of terrorism's financing and the purpose for the implementation of decisions made in order to prevent the financing of terrorism by the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations Security Council and our country in order to prevent its assets from being frozen in order to prevent international obligation to our country. Although the International Convention on Anti-Terrorism was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on December 9, 1999, it was signed on January 10, 2000, but the unwillingness of states to sign the contract was issued on September 11, 2001, with the pressure of the United States (U.S.) to sign it on September 11, 2001, when the world was widely known as the attack on Twin Towers, as well as Turkey signed it with the pressure of 16 days after September 11th. However, when drafting the bill, the United Nations Convention did not go through it, nor were the regulations made according to it. The United Nations, of course, has left the final decision to the savings of entity states, but it is clear that the bill is being prepared without universal principles. Instead of referring to the United Nations Convention when drafting the law, the scope of terrorism has been broadly extended, rather than referring to Anti-Terror Law 3713. The bill responds to the arbitrary use of powers. In this context, the draft law, which allows financial resources associated with terrorism to be frozen without a court decision, points to an antidemocratic and illegal process. Because of this, there will be irreparable victims. Although we have stated from the very beginning that the bill must be worked very carefully, unfortunately, the government has also decided on a bill to lay the groundwork in a chaotic environment by reading its own way. So it is clear that the bill means that the European Convention on Human Rights, which Turkey is a party to, and that it is a violation of the right of property guaranteed in our Constitution. In view of this framework, there must be no administrative measures in the arrangement. A legal arrangement must be made and the decisions to be made will have a judicial quality, as it concerns property rights. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the bill is building an authority structure on the property of real and legal individuals in related savings. An assessment commission consisting of officials of various public institutions and institutions and a position consisting of the President of the Financial Crimes Research Board has been granted all kinds of austerity authority. These two boards will be able to perform the necessary work, to decide which private and legal individuals should be frozen, and according to this, they will be able to implement the provisions of the permit specified in Article 128 (28) of Penal Code 5271. With the bill, the property of citizens who are thought to have committed the crime will be confiscated without the trial process. Given how broad the scope of terrorism has been and how easily the terrorist charge can be done now, it is hard not to think about the practical challenges that will arise in the process of the bill's legalisation. Without a concrete investigation into real and legal individuals, completely unaware of them, the only way to avoid being punished is by financing the terror, based on police and intelligence data alone. The Evaluation Commission will be able to decide whether or not the investigation has been launched within a year, regardless of whether or not its assets will continue to freeze. At this point, the pleasure of the administration is clearly at stake, and the decision to freeze property against it could be a formal violation of the property rights of real and legal individuals. One of the main contradictions in the bill is that the government refers to the articles of the Anti-Terror Law, which it considers to replace judicial package and similar judicial reforms because it is troubled. The public's demand is that many of the TMK substances be changed. By referring to the possible amendments, drafting such a serious bill creates a conflicting situation. Because going through the terrorism scope of the present Anti-Terror Law will bring challenges in the future. Since the current TMK is extremely broad and comprehensive, every law on this issue has been created from the very beginning. For that reason, the bill should refer, not to the Anti-Terror Law, but to the United Nations Convention. One of the most terrifying aspects of the bill is that the relevant Evaluation Commission has the potential to prosecute opposition municipalities for financing the terrorist organisation. Will the assets of a municipality that has been funded by terrorism be frozen? By doing so, will citizens living within the city limits be punished? In recent days, the word "terror" that has often been used in almost every case can lead to different practices in the hands of a commission based entirely on execution. In addition, if there is no investigation into real or legal persons whose assets are frozen within a year, the decision to freeze their property automatically should be eliminated, but we do not find it right to write it in an uncertain language. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, under the bill, for example, if there is someone within a social aid association that the state calls a terrorist organization or function, the whole association is under suspicion. In our country, where civil society is far behind in Europe, in such a situation, what kind of person will be able to work in a free association. In the event of terrorist activity by a member of the association, it is no more than unlawful to claim that the association and its members are acting as terrorists. In the same way, a municipality that recruits staff to the municipality can easily be punished if it is a terrorist in the eyes of the state. In this case, opposition municipalities, who are considered primaryly responsible, will be able to freeze their assets, which also means the principle of personality of the crime will be damaged. Furthermore, municipalities receive funds from various EU institutions, thus developing social responsibility projects. Given that the funds received from the Bank of Provinces are extremely inadequate, there is nothing as natural as the use of funds from municipalities, for example, but in such a situation, such a source of funding will be taken into account by the Evaluation Commission, and the municipality will be blamed for using this fund. Moreover, the public is concerned that such critical decisions will be taken by bureaucrats who do not have the quality of a judge. Do you really think that a delegation of bureaucrats can make legal decisions that represent justice? Clearly, this represents an understanding that ignores the guarantee of judgment, which gives power and governance an infinite amount of authority. Clearly, the physical destruction operations developed by Chiller in the 90s are now sought to develop economically. Therefore, I would like to say that we are against this law because we think it can bring a lot of damage to our country. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0258par0066	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third speaker for the groups is Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan Kokturk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kokturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0259par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second part of the proposed bill. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, once again, the bill has been brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to prevent the financing of terrorism, in order to implement the historic United Nations Convention of 1999, the organisation of financing terrorism is subject to a number of financial sanctions by the United Nations Security Council and the Minister for the financing of terrorism against our country until February 22nd. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first and foremost, there is no doubt that terrorism is a serious crime of humanity. The importance of preventing the financing of terrorism in the fight against terrorism, which is a serious crime of humanity, is very clear. Of course, it is appreciated by all of us that the terrorist organizations whose financial resources have been cut off, whose financial resources have been drained can't survive, can't survive, can't sustain. In this context, it is also clear that the problem of financing terrorism and terrorism has been a common problem for all world states, especially our country, who have been fighting separatist terrorism for many years, who have suffered a great deal of pain in this sense, and have paid a great price, so that all governments must approach the financing of terrorism with a joint fight. Dear lawmakers, after saying these things, we also need to consider some issues here. Although there is a general consensus on the definition of terrorism, there is no general understanding, no general consensus on the perception of terrorism, both at national level and international level, that terrorism is a serious crime of humanity. What is terror? Who's a terrorist? What structures can be described as a terrorist organisation? The answers to the questions appear to vary from national level to power, international to countries and especially to interests. On the national level, there's a lot of confusion about the perception of terror as we go through it. In our country today, as we all know, thousands of people are under arrest as part of the Anti-terrorism Act, including the leaders of university professors who are trying to give their students a good education, who are trying to protect the rights of their own members, the heads of the NGO, and our MPs. Again, at a time when the terrorist organization is being negotiated, many of our values, which have nothing to do with terrorism, have dedicated their lives to health, science, humanity, country defence, are bitter, with the secret witness statements that have caused scandal, with the damaged digital data, conflicting expert statements, and with the groundless, without basis, with the stereotype of court decisions, with special court rulings. In fact, it's come to a point where this clear and dramatic process, which, up until yesterday, the genius of the Prime Minister, who has been in charge of the prosecution of these cases, even though his sincerity is questionable, has moved him to develop a new expression. Dear friends, this is the view of the country, but on an international level, it's not very different on an international level. And on the international level, extremely incoherent and asymmetrical approaches are striking out. Hamas, a serious terrorist organization, according to the United States, is considered a serious ally, according to the Prime Minister. Again, there are terrorist organisations' lists created by powerful countries who have become the world's gendarmes based on their own threat perceptions. According to Mr. Ozgenc, who wrote a book on this subject, negotiations and negotiations between government representatives who will either be taken on these lists or who will be removed from these lists. In this context, the criteria for the creation of terrorist lists are very uncertain, the procedures and processes do not contain transparency, there are huge errors in listing and removal, and these errors are repeated over and over again. There is no need to investigate and prosecute people whose property has been decided to be frozen by the committee of the United Nations Security Council. In other words, our fellow lawmakers expressed in yesterday's talks, a much more important issue for our country, which is fighting separatist terrorism, is a major flaw in our country; funding non-governmental organisations, organisations, or other aid to organizations, which are on the basis of an armed conflict with a state, is not within this scope of the international contract, which our country is currently dealing with, as part of the international contract, not the financing of terrorism based on the financing of terrorism that constitutes terrorism. In addition to all of this, the suspicion that some countries have used and supported some terrorist organizations against our country and other national states, which have imposed this law on us, now appears to be supported by very serious signs that go beyond doubt. Dear lawmakers, in such a conjunctive context, where terrorists, terrorism, terror organizations, deep cloud of the mind, terrorism and perception are in the countries, the countries at international level, and in every condition, the laws that have been replaced by benefits, there are regulations in this bill that will lead to the expansion of the Anti-Terror Act, which is already used in law enforcement and special authority courts, which, when the AKP is given a jump in the direction of power, will lead to the expansion of the scope of the Anti-Terror Law, which has turned into a rubber ball into a rubber ball. An administrative commission is established under the name of the Evaluation Commission, which is responsible for taking over the assets of terrorism's financing, the funds of political power. The commission and the Council of Ministers will be given the authority to restrict and freeze the property rights, which is one of our most basic rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. The lists established by the Security Council, the request of the foreign state and when it comes to citizens' property in the foreign country are not sought for judicial guarantees, and these demands are either being processed directly by the Council of Ministers or by the Council of Ministers at the recommendation of the evaluation committee. This, of course, creates devastating effects for those whose assets are frozen by the lack of legal means. Again, it is possible that even the vital costs necessary for the living of commercial businesses involved in the frozen property must be made by the permission of the President of the Financial Crimes Research Board, which is in control of the political power, which is connected to political power as well as the way it operates. As a result, good lawmakers are clearly interfering with the field of duty and authority of the judiciary. A process that is incompatible with the legal state is moving further, as well as a special administrative committee, where all of their economic assets are being threatened against the law. Dear lawmakers, though on paper today, are a democratic law state according to our Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Democratic states have to fight terrorism, democracy, and human rights definitions, according to their qualifications. Therefore, the laws that we will take out of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be in accordance with the principle of democratic law state, regardless of the follow-up accounts behind international impositions and these sanctions. Therefore, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I express our reservations against the bill we discussed, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0260par0084	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Congressmans, the talks on section two have been completed on behalf of groups. Now, in the name of their individuals, Mr. Turgut Dibek, Congressman of the 40s. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Dibek, come in. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0261par0090	Dear friends, I made a personal pledge in chapter two. I salute you first. Dear friends, a contract accepted by the United Nations Security Council in 1999. With our approval of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2002, this is the internal regulation of this contract on the prevention of financing of terrorism, which is now part of our internal law. We're doing it in 2002, year 2013, ten years later or eleven years later. When we think about why we're so late, since yesterday, our friends have actually been talking, Mr. Secretary, and so has the Commission, and this has come to an end. So now the relevant boards of the United Nations Security Council say to Turkey: If you're going to take this off, I'm putting you on the blacklist, and now you're with North Korea and Iran, Iran. So what he really wants to say is that if you take this law out, we'll continue to work, and if you don't, it's a country that doesn't actually do its part in preventing terrorism, in a sense preventing terrorism, it's a country that doesn't do its part in cutting off its financial resources. So the government brought in this law at the end, and then a few days later, it'll be over. I see this: I have looked at the law, I have studied it, I am a member of the Commission, and I have looked there. I don't think the law is very well understood, dear friends. I told you today. I mean, what does this law bring? I don't think it's understood enough. So when we look at it, the law has its flaws, it has its reservations, we're already talking about them, but in general, when we consider what this law is about, I have three topics... it's a lot to talk about. The United Nations Security Council has two decisions -- it's written on the law, and it's on the 5th Amendment -- there's a 1267 verdict, there's a 1373 verdict, as far as I know, if I'm not mistaken. 1267. The United Nations Security Council, which voted for the Taliban and Al Qaeda, says to all countries who sided with this contract: You will implement this Council's decisions unconditionally, regarding organizations that support, fund, contribute to these terrorist organizations. One of them is organized with the 5th article. So Turkey, the Council of Ministers, has to implement the demands of these two terrorist organisations from the Council unconditionally; Article 5th. There's another one, there's six, there's seven, and there's the other UN Security Council's decision that concerns terrorist organizations outside these two terrorist organizations; they're numbered. There are 155 or 160 other countries, I think, who are on the side of the contract with other countries about them, who are organizing their demands from Turkey. So other countries will say to Turkey: "Look, this is what these organizations, these people in Turkey, these organizations, they have funding, they have resources, they have support, they have ice cream, decide to block them." There's an evaluation board on him, he'll assess it, he'll present it to the Council of Ministers, that's the second way. The other method is: there are provisions for Turkey's demands from foreign countries concerning terrorist organisations -- which Turkey considers a terrorist organization -- that is, three titles. But in it, we've been fighting the PKK for ten years... for 30 years -- friends say -- we've lost thousands of lives. So after thirty years or ten years of ratifying this contract, we haven't been able to get the PKK to accept the world as a terrorist organization. So the Anti-Terror Law in Turkey, according to the relevant laws, is a terrorist organization, but the Republic of Turkey can't do this... I mean, this king is naked, and everyone knows it, and it's said here. From time to time, the Republic of Turkey, the Kurdistan Workers' Party of Turkey, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)..., England, France, the United States, and the United States, have declared that the PKK is a terrorist organization so that we may be able to accept it. They have a statement from any country. But when they receive a request from Turkey, these organizations in your country support the PKK (KKKKK), they receive income from there, because they are the PKK, they are the PKK's property; we will get this answer or we will get this answer: it is not a terrorist organization. The answer the other countries gave us. Can you imagine? So there's a paradox like this, and when we ask people in Turkey, what is there as a terrorist organization? Everyone has PKK in their minds, but we can't apply these contracts to the PKK, it's not possible. I didn't have enough time, I actually had more to say. Regarding other organisations, of course, Turkey's demands will be evaluated, but this law also showed: What is a terrorist organization? What's a terrorist? In these cases, the last time we looked at the Prime Minister's statements, he made it a little more clear. In both the world and Turkey, according to our laws, there are people and soldiers who have no weapons, no algebra, no violence, no threats, no terrorist organization, but people on trial, no soldiers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, which one of these has a gun -- except for those who have been somewhere -- who has applied algebra, who has committed violence, who has detonated bombs, who has kidnapped, who has committed murder -- but these are terrorist organizations. I'm talking about the application in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0262par0102	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Minister of Finance Mr. Mehmet Simsek. Mr. Secretary, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0263par0107	Mr. President, I have been promised to clear up a few issues. I salute you all. The first issue was brought up by a number of friends of ours, and it was said: "Is this bill, which was stated to be based on the Convention on the Protection of Terrorism of the United Nations, covered the financing of those who participated directly in the armed conflict? So does this include, or does this not cover, the PKK? Now, my dear friends, the United Nations Convention on Anti-Financing Terrorism has been signed by our government to hold back the 2nd article describing the criminal actions of the United Nations Convention.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0264par0109	We can't put it on pause, explain...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0263par0110	Therefore, this decree of the contract was not approved by our country. So, in the contract...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0265par0111	Does it connect other countries?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0263par0112	...another person who did not directly participate in the conflict in an armed conflict was not deliberately included in the bill. Thus, it is part of the law to finance all attempts to kill and wound the security forces involved in the armed conflict. In addition, the reference to acts of terror in Article 3/b of the current bill is further strengthened by Article 3713 of the Anti-Terror Law. We have no doubt about it. Dear friends, here's the second thing: of course, I tried to explain it a few times yesterday. Dear friends, in terms of the financing of terrorism committed in Turkey, we are not giving the Council of Ministers or the Evaluation Commission a new mandate for financing terrorism committed in Turkey. So in terms of the financing of terrorism committed in Turkey, neither the Council of Ministers nor the Commission for Evaluation has any new authority, it does not have freeze authority; it will be carried out entirely within the framework of the provisions of the Law on Punishment, which was already very clear in the law. So, sir, the municipalities or other sections make this mistake, it looks like, you know, the state gets up, the Council of Ministers freezes... that's not true. The Council of Ministers will have the authority to freeze in two frames: One: for Turkey, the United Nations Security Council decisions are binding for the entire world. These are unanimous decisions, whether this is the law or not, whether this bill passes or not, are already binding, and so far there have been 14 Council of Ministers rulings. That's the first thing. In the demands made by foreign states -- again, very clearly and clearly -- we expressed yesterday, in the law -- we will look out for a principle of reciprocity, we will look out for the interests of the country. The Council of Ministers has discretion. The Council of Ministers will look at the grounds within the scope of that state's request and refuse if its justification is insufficient. We're going to ask for collateral in exchange for the risk of future compensation, and within a year the decision to freeze the investigations that haven't been opened can be lifted. So, let me make it clear here that the demands made by foreign states will not be automatic, that the Council of Ministers has the discretion and that there are very serious, very powerful institutions. Now it is said: "Sir, a council of bureaucrats is authorized. " No valued friends, no MASAAK Commission has the authority to decide whether to freeze. The Council of Ministers will have the authority to decide on ice cream, only within the two issues that I have just expressed, and in no way will this bureaucratic process be authorized to freeze, it does not. Now, only this bureaucratic, new Evaluation Commission will have the authority to press charges. In the 19th article of the Law Against the Law on the Declaring of Crime revenues of Law 5549, this authority has already been granted. So there's nothing new here either. So the issue of filing a complaint to the state's prosecutors is that it already exists in the current law of MASAK. Let's look at other countries. Now, let's say in many countries that are with us at FATF, these decisions are not made by the Council of Ministers' decision, but by the ministry of direct truth -- look, Germany is doing the Federal Financial Control Unit. The Ministry of Justice and Foreign Affairs in Belgium, the Ministry of Economics in France, the Ministry of Treasury in the United Kingdom, the Commission to Watch the Finance of Terror in Spain, the Ministry of Economics and Finance in Italy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Netherlands, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Russia, the presidential decree in Russia; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Treasury in the United States; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Treasury in the United States; the Federales in Switzerland-- so the list is going in this way. We gave it to the Council of Ministers. So here, as I said, there is no new arrangement for financing terrorism in Turkey. These powers are already in Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law. What will this law bring to Turkey? I believe that the first... of course, with countries like Iran, North Korea, in this framework... we all know that a Turkey with a strong will doesn't deserve to be on the same list as these countries. So it is necessary for us to raise our standards, of course our legal framework, to the international level as a respected member. But beyond that, I believe that once this law is passed, our hands will be strengthened on international platforms like this. That's right, today, look, Turkey's extradition requests for terrorism in the last decade totaling 384, but we've been extradited 23, rejected 206, abandoned 31, troubled, ongoing 124. So, really, we're in a serious effort to extradite these criminals, both in Europe and in other countries. And these demands, I'm sure, with the passing of this law, we'll have a strong hand, not a weak one. Now, suppose Turkey hadn't drawn up this bill, let's suppose for a moment. All the risks you're talking about continue, so let's just say the United Nations Security Council has made a binding decision for all countries. Aren't we going to do it? Didn't we bring it because there's no law in the past? We got it. There are 14 decisions from the Council of Ministers, 14 from before us, and so do we in our time. So that's the way I see it. And we don't accept all other countries' extradition demands. For example, there were 19 extradition requests, and we only accepted five of them. Thus, with this bill, Turkey is really satisfying an important lack. In Turkey's fight against terrorism, I believe it will strengthen its hand on the international platform, but more importantly, it will help us eliminate some very important risks that we're facing. Look, I'm being very clear. If we don't make this law tomorrow, Turkey's standard, as we know it, could be affected by all the money transfers for investment, because that's how the international system was established. Yes, we don't share criticisms, concerns about the way the Committee of Actions works, we share them, we don't think differently, but let's assume that this bill doesn't exist, then we have to consider the extent of the damage to Turkey. In this bill -- again, I repeat -- self-imposed -- in terms of our citizens, we are not bringing a new provision for the financing of terrorism committed in Turkey. In this sense, no one's property is meant to be frozen by an administrative decision, and it will not be, and this law does not bring it. Again, as before, as in Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law, the judicial process in Turkey will be fully implemented and will be in this framework. If someone is financing terrorism in Turkey or out there, we need to have a strong hand, of course they need to be punished. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0266par0128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of his people, the last speaker is Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu, Bursa MP. Mr. Sherbetchioğlu, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0267par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a personal commitment to the second part of the bill on the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. In addition to increasing acts of terrorism, the developments and the global outlook of terrorism have become a serious threat to international peace and security in our country and the world. Given the international dimensions of global terrorism, it appears that terrorist organisations need a large amount of financing to maintain and operate their assets and activities, and that they are trying to achieve this need through many illegal and illegal activities and methods. In the active fight against terrorism, the issue of finding, monitoring, and preventing the flow of financial resources and resources belonging to terrorist organisations is a very important method of fighting terrorism. After terrorism was no longer a local problem, the international community saw the magnitude of the problem as a global threat, and focused on intensive academic debates, diplomatic contacts, national and international legal regulations. Many international organisations, particularly the United Nations, are conducting efforts to combat terrorism in an effort to boost international co-operation against the threat of terrorism. In these studies, the fight against the financing of terrorism comes first. As a result of these studies, the International Convention on Anti-Terrorism was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 09/12/999 as the first and most important international contract on the fight against terrorism financing, and opened to the signature of the countries. The contract became part of our internal law, as it was approved by the date 01/03/2002 and by the Council of Ministers' decision 2002/3801 and published in the Official Gazette 01/04/2002. The contract calls for immediate review of the scope of international legal regulations in effect and for measures to prevent and prevent financing of terrorism through appropriate internal regulations. Again, the contract provides the obligation to identify, find, freeze, confiscate, confiscate, co-optive, effective measures for the prosecution and prosecution of perpetrators, and for the development of cooperation between governments, in order to establish and improve cooperation between governments. The United Nations, tasked with protecting international peace and security, has made a number of security council decisions on the prevention of terrorism and the financing of terrorism under the mandate of the United Nations to determine joint measures and sanctions. These decisions related to financing terrorism and terrorism include regulations for freezing the assets of individuals and organisations that are usually linked to some terrorist organisations or terrorists, and in this regard, call on the state to cooperate. The most important of these decisions are decisions 1267 and 1373. With Resolution 1267, a list of individuals and organisations providing financial support to terrorism is set and the United Nations member states are obliged to freeze the assets of individuals or terrorist organisations on this list. Decision 1373 is being asked to freeze the assets of real and corporate individuals who finance terrorism and the financial resources of terrorism and to cut off all support for terrorist organisations and ensure international cooperation. Dear lawmakers, with our country on the side, as well as in our internal law, which has become part of our country's international obligation to prevent the financing of the United Nations Terrorism in 1999, I wish that this bill of law, which has been prepared for the implementation of the International Charter, and for the implementation of the financing of terrorism in order to comply with the contract provisions, and for the financing of terrorism by the United Nations Security Council, and for the financing of terrorism by our country, should be found, and I salute your grand committee for the sake of resolving its assets.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0268par0146	Thank you, Mr. Sherbetcioğlu. Now, we have friends entering the system, and we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. First place, Mr. Irbet.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0269par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Officials say criminal organisations work mainly in cash and hand in order not to leave a trace, and say the numbers reached as a result of the follow-up of financial movements into the banking system are very small. Two years ago, the EP parliament registered that the PKK obtained at least $600m annually from drug trafficking. How much does Turkey estimate year-on-year, as of today, that PKK has put money from drug trafficking into its safe? The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the Europol report suggest that old methods will not be sufficient in dealing with drug-related crime and criminal organisations. The International Criminal Tribunal has shown a supportive stance for the international community to curse terrorism and bring terrorists to justice, while Turkey is not here. Our immediate bias to the agreement can strengthen Turkey's hand. Here, terrorism is described as a crime of humanity. The fiscal action tasked with preventing the international recognition of terrorism in Turkey's legislation from laundering the money...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0268par0152	Mr. Irbet, thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0270par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you this: one of the things that is based on this law is the international contract. You said: "In Article 2 of the international contract, we have made a note that this international contract on the armed struggle in that country will not be implemented." What benefit does it have for our country? When we put this note in, if the PKK has a fund in the European countries or the United States, if it has a fund in it, we said: "We want to freeze their assets." They said: "You put a note, but we don't know this note." What's the point of putting a note? Isn't that just an approach to our public opinion? And I want to say, how do the United Nations Security Council decisions apply in European countries? There's a committee of 27 countries together...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0271par0158	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0272par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, from the Esendere Border Gate in Hakkari Yüksekova, the PKK has been identified by MASAK that a significant financial source has been created through smuggling and imaginary exports and has been made public in your statements. In this case, is it possible that when companies who have been involved in these events have been assessed in terms of their assets, their assets have been confiscated? How much of the amount of imaginary exports and illegal money that have been detected so far has gone to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? With this arrangement, will a decision be made for such companies? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0273par0163	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0274par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we're negotiating a law in order to fight effectively in the fight against terrorism. In our fight against the PKK's terrorist organization, village rangers and volunteer village rangers take on important tasks. We know that these village rangers, the volunteer village rangers, have very important problems that are unresolved. As Minister of Finance, do you have any good news? Will you have an arrangement to improve the rights of equity? My second question is: After the negotiations with the PKK began, reports are coming from some provinces that the village rangers, the volunteer village rangers, were instructed to collect weapons. Is that a thing? Did the PKK really make such a promise during this negotiation? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0275par0169	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0276par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you claim to be a successful administration. In a successful administration, will the trigger of the judiciary be in the congregation, will Abdullah Ocalan be the trigger for terrorism, the trigger for energy be in Russia, the trigger for technology in Japan, the trigger for trade in the European Union, the trigger for financing in European countries, the satellite in China, the trigger for foreign policy, the trigger for foreign policy in the United States of America? According to this last law, which country will be the key to financing terrorism? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0277par0174	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0278par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister if there are people and companies whose assets are frozen because they support terrorism in past tenses, who are they, who are they? What amount and value of drugs were seized in operations against the ACK and PKK, and how many were convicted? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0279par0179	Thank you, Mr. Right. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0280par0181	Mr. Minister, the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor has made a special statement concerning you and a member of the Republican People's Party on the basis of a report in the newspaper, which states that Ankara -- who at the time -- is one of the model cities of Europe -- is essentially being paid for. Is it the duty of a mayor to examine a congressman with a special lens? What do we need to understand from this particular lens, whether he's going to spy on you or listen to him or not? If a mayor says that, can you do anything about the financing of terrorism within the framework of this law we're discussing, do you have the power?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0279par0182	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0281par0184	Minister, you know Malatya is the capital of the world and Turkey's apricot production. However, this year the Malatian farmer faces hunger. I've brought it up so many times this semester that our farmer is hungry with his apricot problems in Malatya. The apricot in Malatiah, of course, is not only about the farmer; it is about the tradesman, it is about the industrialist, it is about everyone who lives in Malatya. Do you think you can give a positive support for this, which can be given: If your ministry buys 30,000, 40,000 tons of apricots, the price of apricots increases, as well as the opportunity for people living in Turkey to eat an important product, such as apricots, and their intelligence increases and their health improves. Are you planning on doing anything about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0279par0186	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, of course, the U.N. Convention that we've been holding back, so what does it mean when we pull it? It means that we are not bound by this agreement, so it does not concern us. Of course, I'm not a lawyer, but most countries probably approve of such contracts with reservations. I don't have that in front of me right now, but it probably is, so no country accepts contracts from time to time, some reservations can be put into place. So it's not binding from our point of view, not in terms of our practice, but I can't say anything about other countries' evaluation. But I find it useful to say that today the PKK has been considered a terrorist organization by both the United States and the European Union.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0283par0191	Is there a measure of assets taken, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0192	As a result of many years of our efforts as a state, as I said, the important thing is to highlight the fact that both the European Union and the United States consider this organisation, the PKK, a terrorist organization, a terrorist organization. In a nutshell, that's all I can tell you about your question. Now for the other questions. There's a question about Hakkari Esendere. On 20/07/2011, the Ministry of Customs and Trade requested a review. We've assigned a supervisor, and the investigation continues, and since it hasn't been completed, I can't give you concrete figures. But I believe that the work on this will be done quickly and will be done in accordance with our laws. Now, again, the PKK's drug trade, the question of predictions about this. Dear friends, I told you yesterday, as a government, we have no such predictions. I mean, there's no way I'm sharing a number with you, but the last thing you said is true. That's what the law is for. So our definition of terrorism only covers crimes committed against Turkey, or rather its activities. So that's why the FATF request: your definition is not in line with the international definition of terrorism, you just described terrorist activities against Turkey as terrorism. This law also solves this deficit, and in this sense, yes, it strengthens our hand. Dear friends, let me tell you about the village rangers: I have no knowledge that weapons have been collected from the volunteer village rangers. I mean, this is...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0284par0197	I mean, there's a call like this coming from Glory, so check it out.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0198	I don't know anything about it, so I don't think it's appropriate for me to make an assessment of it, but I don't think it's possible. But you can, of course, refer that question to our concerned friend again. As of right now, he's been to the Treasury Department on the rights of the village rangers, and in front of me, there's nothing we're working on, but if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a number. The village rangers received a salary of $236 in December 2002, receiving $850 in January 2013. Over the minimum wage, there is an increase of about 260 per cent. Dear friends, again, an assessment of our Ankara Metropolitan Mayor has been made, and a question has been asked about him. Well, actually, I'm not very familiar with what you're saying, what you're saying in the context, but I mean, this is a state of law...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0285par0201	We will examine you. He says, "We will follow you, it will be done."
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0202	Turkey is a state of law, no one can engage in any other activity but it, and if it does, it's already legal.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0285par0203	So did Melih make a deal with Gökçek MIT, a deal with the military, who did he make with?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0204	Guys, the law is clear. So, I mean, we're here to get straight to the truth...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0285par0205	I think your government should take him under consideration, your government.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0206	As for apricot manufacturers, apricot production, I'm eating apricots, I'll tell you that. But I'll tell you this: Turkish Airlines is now, you know, offering apricots.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0286par0207	He bought the cheapest, the cheapest.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0208	Two, but, you know, we're carrying 40 million passengers, that's 80 million each, that's a serious number. But more importantly, let me put it this way, frankly, we have a support budget, dear friends. The micro-details of this support budget include us as Finance Ministry to support this product, not to support this product. We are not interfering in the form of this product. We have earmarked an estimated $13 billion budget to our Ministry of Agriculture, including direct grants, including support from the Finance Ministry, 13 billion; a serious number. Now, what product is supported here, you can appreciate that I'm...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0286par0210	You have the money, Minister, you have the money. Apricot manufacturer is in real trouble.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0211	Dear friends, we allocate the money to the House by budget, by law.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0287par0212	We approve.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0213	Our friends with those laws are actually using them rationally, and that's how you encourage them to use them. Now, dear friends, I'm looking to see if I've missed a question, Mr. Tanal. The question is not the kind of question to answer, but don't get me wrong. I mean, Turkey's real position has been strengthened internationally, and I mean it sincerely. Turkey, we really want to be the most powerful country in the world, so let's go to the top 3, let's go to the top 5, but in that direction Turkey has come a great distance in the last ten years. The agenda is not an established country; Turkey is a country that has been significantly strengthened in the international arena, which has indeed set a significant agenda. Therefore, I don't agree with your assessment. Again, there was a question in the form of a drug-related substance, I think, how long was he caught? I don't have the numbers in front of me, but I'll be happy to share them with you if my friends can get them from our Ministry of Interior or any other party.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0288par0216	The Chief of Staff has a report in that direction.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0282par0217	But for the last time, this law will really strengthen our hand, this law will increase Turkey's reputation, this law will lead to many problems that will develop. So, take it easy on this one. As we prepared this law, we really considered all these concerns. This is a proper arrangement, a necessary arrangement for Turkey. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0289par0219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft law on preventing the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. Article 3. And 4. We offer and offer to alter your jokes as follows. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan İkturk Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turgut Dibek Celal Dinçer Those who have been given a decision to freeze their assets will report to the President within the last 30 days of its notice, after the decision to buy and to freeze all other assets and the basis of their assets, or to receive from them the actual and legal persons with debt or the basis of the amount of debt, as soon as the decision to freeze their property is announced in the three largest circulation papers across the country. (4) The decision to freeze property given by the Attorney General's Court of Peace is 128 of the Law No. 5271. It will be carried out without delay, according to the clause." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 409 rows of ▪ We propose and propose that the 12th article of the Bill of the Law be removed from the draft text on the prevention of the financing of terrorism. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Estate Onetane Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0290par0240	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0289par0241	Your Honor, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0291par0242	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0289par0243	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0292par0244	One on the property...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0289par0245	Mr. One, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0293par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 12th Amendment on the Protection of Terrorism. I salute you all. It is clear in Turkey that the perception of terrorism is based on Kurdish political action by misleading the public through state official policies and media. Thus, a new victim is born for Kurds in all terrorist regulations. This law is the basis of a new antidemocratic movement against the Kurdish political movement and, of course, of course, against the Kurdish people. It violates the principles of the legal state, the laws governing property, the independence of the judiciary, democracy, economic freedom. It is clear that the idea of the draft was formed at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors in Istanbul on January 26, 2012, where officials of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Court of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Financial Crimes Research Board, and the Anti-Terror Act, attended by Republican prosecutors and TEM branch managers. One of the decisions made at that meeting was that the state and municipal tenders in the East and the Southeast would be taken into account. Thousands of Kurds currently imprisoned in prison have been charged with supporting terrorism in their case-related files. In the indictment of Mr. Fatma Surkan, who has been a Van MP for the past year and has been arrested without trial for more than a year, it is a crime to subscribe to the daily Azadiya Welat, a one-day Kurdish newspaper in Turkey. It is clear what the Kurds will face if the bill is passed. Dear MPs, Tansu Ciller: We have a list of Kurdish businessmen who have helped Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). There are as many as 60 names on the list, and the state will fight with those who provide financial support to the PKK, just as it did with the PKK. Now, this government, which talks about democratization every day, stands in the same place as Tansu Çiller, whose laws are based on its own majority, is becoming more and more similar. We're dealing with a law-breaker like the Anti-Terror Act, and this time we're dealing with a state that's coveted the hard work of Kurds, sweat, property, property. We've seen a lot of power in this country that's been funding terrorism for years. Didn't the government finance the gangs, the Ergenekon, the revenge brigades, the countererilla, JITEM, Hezbollah, the organizations that slaughtered thousands of Kurds with their own resources? What is a terrorist act that massacres 34 Kurdish youth in Roboski? In fact, another Turkey would be built with the resources of the Prime Minister, which the state used to conduct against the Kurds, which could be called openly state terror, which would also be built by the government's resources. It should be controlled by his confession, so the name of this bill should be prevented from financing antidemocratic activities of the state, and its content should be re-prepared accordingly. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have recently been led by gangs in Syria, Western Kurdistan, who have launched attacks on Kurds through Turkey's aid and support. Ceylanınar is easily in and out of the border, but it is not allowed on the grounds that the border door is closed when the people want to help their relatives there. The aid made by Nusaybin is entirely humanitarian and does not include any crime or violence. However, gangs entering Syria from Ceylanınar have created an environment of conflict to eliminate the political status of the Kurds there. The struggle for rights and freedom that Kurds have waged for years is sought to be terrorized by such laws. If the government is truly sincere to the solution in this process, it is a terrorist organization of the PKK. By giving up its rhetoric, it should be accepted as a cultural and multiidentitarian, social, political movement, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0294par0258	Thank you, Mr. Birtane. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft law on preventing the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. Article 3. And 4. We offer and offer to alter your jokes as follows. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Those who have been given a decision to freeze their assets will report to the President within the last 30 days of its notice, after the decision to buy and to freeze all other assets and the basis of their assets, or to receive from them the actual and legal persons with debt or the basis of the amount of debt, as soon as the decision to freeze their property is announced in the three largest circulation papers across the country. (4) The decision to freeze property given by the Attorney General's Court of Peace is 128 of the Law No. 5271. It will be carried out without delay, according to the clause." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0295par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0294par0268	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0296par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0294par0270	Mr. Yilmaz, come in. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0297par0273	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we have made it very clear that we have some doubts, concerns about this bill. I just asked Mr. Secretary, but he didn't have time to answer, and I didn't have time, so we couldn't really ask the question. I just wanted to say, how do decisions from the United Nations Security Council apply in the countries of the European Union? How do the decisions of this Committee of Actions, which was taken against the Taliban and Al-Qaeda, apply? I'd really like to get this explained, Mr. Secretary, by the way, if he can explain, he'll be just fine. Because it is said that we, members of the Security Council of the United Nations, have no obligation to implement decisions unconditionally, we are subject to the contract, whereas there is a committee from the countries of the European Union -- as far as I've heard -- of 27 countries -- that reviews the decisions of the United Nations Security Council that have come in, and if they are unanimous, those decisions can be implemented in the countries of the European Union. Now, why did the countries of the European Union need this? Why would he need such a control mechanism? Because on September 12, 2012, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights of Switzerland-Nada was very clear. In 2002, Mustafa Nada was seized and deported for aiding the Taliban. He is banned from entering Switzerland by Switzerland and is also subject to sanctions in particular in Italy. In fact, investigations are being launched in Switzerland and Italy, and they are being ruled untraceable. I mean, he's applying to the Supreme Court to remove my limitations. The Supreme Court says that the Security Council of the United Nations has decided. We can't do anything about it. Mustafa Nada goes to the European Court of Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights, dated September 12, 2012, condemns Switzerland to compensation, he says: You must regulate the UN Security Council's decision according to your own internal law. You can't destroy human rights and this person's right to travel, his right to property and his right to health. You will regulate this according to your own internal law. The European Convention on Human Rights of Europe states that if there is such a sanction in international law, if these people have rights, the United Nations Security Council is not the highest office, according to international law, you will recognise these rights according to the European Convention on Human Rights, and you will balance it. And, again, the final decision he made was that you didn't know the way to civil law. You made such an ice cream decision against Mustafa Nada, you prevented him from coming and going to Switzerland, but you did not know an effective legal way against it, so I sentence you to compensation. He says to Switzerland. Now, we're going to take these things, without checking them, without questioning them, without even looking at the reason, without even saying the name, we have no obligation to apply them without looking at it. For one thing, we need to right this wrong. Now, I'd like to address a few questions regarding the 12th article of this bill, if I may have the time. The 12th article -- as I talked about yesterday -- has the same problems as the 11th article: those who are frozen and who will receive property from those who are frozen, must give information within thirty days, starting with the publication of this decision -- the freezing decision. So, friends, again, I ask you, how many people read the official newspaper? Now, the assets were informed that they had been frozen, but they didn't inform the president about it to anyone who owed or anyone who owed money to the freeze, and in 30 days they didn't know about the Official Gazette. And after that? Again, the 15th article of this bill is punishable from six months to two years if there is a delay in this issue. You didn't report your rights and debts to that person or to the organization regarding this freeze decision. Should they be punished? I mean, there's a lot of technical, serious problems, you guys. These were never resolved, even though we said so in the Commission, even though the commissioners agreed on it. In fact, Mr. Minister says that they will file a criminal complaint against the prosecution on the charges of financing terrorism committed in Turkey. Well, Mr. Secretary, he's going to press charges against the prosecution, but who's going to decide how to freeze his assets? There's nothing definite about it. There is a serious problem with Article 12 The technical problem in Article 12 is that there is also a serious error in this issue, while decisions taken in accordance with accordance with Articles 5, 6, and 7 are required. I wanted to draw your attention to the idea that these mistakes could be corrected. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0298par0281	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 12 accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the Grand National Assembly " I was at the end of Article 13 of Article 13 of the Charter on the Obstruction of Terrorism No. 409... The proceedings can be carried out by the permission of the President." the expression "... The proceedings can be performed with the permission of the judge who has made the decision." In the second sentence of his third joke, we propose and propose that the word "presidentship" be changed to "lawyer" and the seventh joke be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Haluk Eyidoğan Ahmet Toptaş Binnaz Earth Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Turkey to the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 13 of Article 13 of Article 409 of "Finance of Terrorism" from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Sırrıyya Leader Mr. Commission...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0299par0300	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0298par0301	The government...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0300par0302	Mr. President, of course, there's no such procedure, but it's a basic law, my friends, they're asking me a lot of questions, of course, when you're asking me whether or not I agree with these particular proposals, I can explain if you think it's appropriate, but it's entirely your discretion. I'll tell you this: there's a committee in the European Union, that's right. So far, this committee has fully approved and implemented all decisions made by the United Nations Security Council. We have a decision from the Council of Ministers, which is binding, but I'll give you an example, so far there have been 14 Council of Ministers decrees, including the names of two Turks in those United Nations Security Council decisions, the decision to freeze their property, which has not been made. It means it's binding, but sometimes we make decisions like this. The European Union is probably...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0301par0304	Then why didn't we put this in the law, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0300par0305	The European Union probably created this committee in this framework. I don't know.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0301par0306	We have made proposals regarding Turkish citizens that will not be implemented, which has not been accepted, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0300par0307	Dear friends, here...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0302par0308	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0300par0309	As a result, I disagree with the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0302par0310	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Baluken, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0303par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to use my say on this motion to respond to the allegations of our party, which have been expressed on this parliamentary stand for several days, which have actually been expressed for a long time. Every speaker here explains that BDP has its back on the guns, that it's politics by relying on guns, and we have to answer. We insisted that BDP would come today with a price at the end of the guns. I'm going to read here, one by one, the names of our politicians who have been killed and killed in the political tradition that we have been successors to. If that's enough time, I'd like to share these names with the public: 21/6/1991, Mildik Tan, HEP Batman is a member of the county board of directors. In July 1991, Vedat Aydın, HEP Diyarbakır Province President was taken from his home and tortured to death. In July 1991, the audience attended the funeral ceremony of Vedat Aydın had been scanned and 10 people lost their lives. 25/7/1991, Sadattin Akbay, member of the HEP Tatvan County Board, has been killed by armed scans of three people. In July 1991, Remzi İl, HEP Diyarbakır member was taken into custody on 11/7/1991, tortured to death. İsmail Hakk Kocakaya, HEP lice province commissioner, was tortured to death in Diyarbakır. In 1991, Tefik Bazitçi, HEP executive; 1992 Abdurrahman Willow, HEP Nusaybin district secretary was killed in an armed attack. In 1992, Hari Arman, member of HEP Mush, was kidnapped and tortured to death in Diyarbakır. 1992, Sait Ertan, member of HEP Diyarbakır, was killed in an armed attack. In 1992, Mehmet Emin Narin, member of HEP Nusaybin, was killed in an armed attack. In 1992, Mahmut Ertak, HEP Şırnak Central District member was taken into custody, still missing. In 1992, Halil Baysal, HEP Şırnak member, was killed by a fire fired by special teams in the garden of the state hospital. In 1992, Hüseyin Arkine, member of HEP Cizre, was first broken legs and later killed by special teams. In 1992, Birsen Özcan, a member of HEP Şırnak, was killed by a shot fired from a Panzer in, Nevroz. 1992, Ahmet Turan, HEP Silvan County Secretary. In 1992, Ismail Irmak was a member of the HEP Nusaybin district board. Bahattin Turan, member of HEP. Hüseyin Deniz, HEP Ceylanpınar County Secretary, was killed in the attack of three armed men. In 1992, Sıddik Turhallı, HEP Diyarbakır member, Diyarbakır Mayor Hüseyin Turhalllı's older brother. 1992, Musa Anter, Kurdish scholar, HEP founder, was killed in an armed assault. Tofik Tavura, member of HEP. Abdulsamet Sakık, president of HEP Gaziantep Province, was killed in an armed attack. In 1992, Abdulkadir İş, HEP Diyarbakır member, two people were killed in an armed attack. Tahir Seyhan, HEP Dargekit district manager, was tortured to death in custody. İdris Çelik, HEP Antalya County Secretary, was killed in an armed assault. Yusuf Solmaz, member of HEP Antalya in 1992, was killed in an armed assault. Tetman Gündüz, HEP Nusaybin district. Mehmet Ertan, member of HEP Batman. Mehmet Tekdağ, HEP is a member of Diyarbakır. Cemal Akar, President of Erzincan Province. Halim Yalçınkaya, HEP Silvan district. Sheikhdavut Yalçınkaya, member of the HEP Kızıltepe board. Şükrü Fırat, a member of the DEP Urbana, disappeared in 1993, was found dead. Lieutenant Iron, member of the D.E.P. Batman. Job Adıyaman, a member of the DEP Silvan. Reverend Iron, member of the DEP Silvan, was killed in an armed assault. 1993, Hashim Yaşa, DEP is a member of the District of Diyarbakır. Sad Iron, member of the DEP Mersin. Kerim Demir, member of the DEP Mersin. Mehmet Yasar, member of the D.E.P. Batman County Board of Directors. 1993, Fahri Aslan, DeP Mersin. 1993, Fahrettin Baykara, DeP Mersin. 1993, Ahmet Aslan, member of the DEP Mersin. Mehmet Yeşil, Director of the Central District of the DEP Batman. 04/09/1993, Mehmet Sincar, DEP Mardin MP, was killed in an armed attack on Batman. My time's up. In the meantime, I'm counting our county and county executives who were killed in an armed assault. I couldn't even finish the massacres here in just one year. It's their list. In this regard, we will continue to read the rest of this list here in the coming days and months, if there are any unthinking explanations regarding the BDP. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0304par0322	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th Article of the Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism 409, which is currently being held, can be done by permission of the President at the end of it. The statement can be made by permission of the judge who has decided to act. It is in the form of the third sentence of his third joke, and we propose that the word be changed in the form of ÅHakim. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0305par0329	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0304par0330	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0306par0331	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0304par0332	Dear Earth, here you are, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0307par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President and my dear fellow lawmakers, while we were discussing this bill, our Minister just said, "What should we do, not accept it?" This is based on a contract accepted by the United Nations. Of course, we agree. No one's saying we should reject this contract anyway. But if we're going to agree to this, if we're going to organize our internal law according to this contract, then we need to be properly organized. Now, for the past two days, this obligation has been spoken of, and one of the most important objections, the friends of the opposition parties, is that our obligation in this law is just to take the contract and apply it to our own internal law, but we have kept it and linked it to the Anti-Terror Act. That's the point that's been raised, and I think that's a very valid objection, because the Anti-Terror Law is really one of the laws that has been debated in Turkey, so it's been discussed for a long time. Indeed, I find it hard to understand that the AKP argues that it is fighting the 1980 coup and other coups, on the other hand, all the laws that these coups bring to the agenda -- I can also count them -- the institutions are in place. The Anti-Terror Law also received the spirit of the 1980 coup. In what way? Because this law restricts fundamental rights and freedoms with extraordinary vague statements, just as in the various laws brought by the 1980 coup, and not only does the Anti-Terror Act restrict it but it connects it with serious criminal provisions. Now, when you look at it, in fact, what does the Anti-Terror Act consider to be a crime? Any action, any thought can be brought under the scope of this law. As a matter of fact, it has happened in practice, and indeed this law has constrained the freedom of thought that is guaranteed by advanced democracies, genuine advanced democracies, and fundamental rights and freedoms such as opposition to those in power and organisation. And if you look at the cases that are being filed under this law, in the TMK framework, if you look at the number of convicted people, if you look at the diversity, you see how this law is contrary to universal law norms and democratic principles. I'll give you only three examples: the first one is about Nedim Sener. He wrote a book about the Hrant Dink case. The prosecutor demanded thirty-seven years for writing the book to Nedim Sener. However, the murderer is tried for twenty-eight years. I mean, it's not like there's anything in any legal state that can be accepted, and it doesn't fit into any conscience. Second, the Hopa case. I followed this last year. These children have been under arrest for six months, 26 college students, their crimes, I believe, lay eggs on Mr. Burhan Lamba, and protest when the Prime Minister arrives on their campus. The D.A. wants 48 years. Again, it's unacceptable in any legal state. Third, it's about Mr. Fethullah Smiley. You know, he was also tried by the Anti-Terror Act on charges of establishing a terrorist organization. Now, about him, I read various, Turkish and English articles and books about his laughing movement, none of which were written about violence. So, if this current law, the bill that was brought before us, becomes law, we'll actually consolidate the laws that have already consolidated all these freedoms, and they'll turn into a very serious weapon to silence the opponents in the hands of this government and the authorities ahead. For him, I believe this law should be sent back to the Justice Commission and brought back to our agenda without being properly associated with the Anti-Terror Law. That's what our party thinks. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0308par0347	Thank you, Mr. Earth. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 14th Amendment bill on the prevention of the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. The article states that the following joke is added. Bornt Kuşoğlu Ali İhsan İktürk Ali Riza Özturk Haydar Akar Turgut Dibek Haluk Eyidoğan Ahmet Toptaş Dilek Akagün Yılmaz (3) If needed or requested by the supervisors, it provides protection power to ensure safety for those assigned under the first joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of Article 14 of Article 409 be removed from the draft text for the financing of terrorism. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Hasip Kaplan Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0309par0367	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0308par0368	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0310par0369	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0308par0370	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0311par0371	Dear friends, the United Nations has 69 definitions of terror and our definition of terror is 6.669. But after 9/11 attacks, America's definition of terror is beyond all that. After the shootings of the twin towers, it also expanded the scope of non-violence, not just civil populations -- whether it's military or military -- and it's called -- actually, in the case of the Pearl Harbor case, it's been very broad in terms of an understanding left over from World War II. Now, I'd like you to put some thought into your friends here. A lot of organizations oppose it, from HAH to HAZLUMDER. The reason we're leaving is because of the definition of TMC, the commissions, the administrative commissions. But what's the government's reason for breaking this law? Let's start with... he said if you don't pass this law by February 23rd, we'll put you on the list of countries that support terrorism. It's a threat. Now, this freeze of assets is not just terrorism funding, it's black money. There is, in fact, what we call a black hole, a recent money issue in this Parliament. You know how many tons of gold came in. Where did it come from? We don't know. Central banks were robbed in North Africa, after the collapse of governments and changes in the Middle East, after Saddam. Where'd the money go? Unknown. Now, we're not the only ones who put the reviews on this issue as opposition. See, the Financial Times says that there is a problem with the law of harmony that ▪ Turkey will adopt because the definition of terrorism is very broad. We had a Minister of the Interior, you know, the Tablo, the picture, the photo, the book, the poetry, the halay, the tag, the slogan, everything is a terrorist, something like that. Now, I'm going to explain these countries in the next motion, but I want to underline the oasis of Turkey's fall. October 2012 -- close, three months ago -- is historically on the list of high-risk countries in Turkey. No one should be able to pass it around, focus on an internal conflict that's been going on in this country for 30 years, and I'll tell you about it in other motions. If Turkey is in the status of countries such as Ethiopia, Myanmar, Ghana, Vietnam and Yemen, the government should think a million times about this list, not a thousand times. There's a very serious situation, see, if there's such a danger, because within it, organizations like the United Nations, OECD, the World Bank, the IMF, the European Central Bank are observer status. Now, your debt to the IMF may be over, but I am now the money-giver of Turkey's IMF. It says, "There's a very remarkable situation here." So when you try to keep the law of implementation wide open in order to silence opponents in the country, like Robespierre, he found the guillotine law, like boomerang, he'll go back to government in the first place. How's he gonna get back? I'm going to tell you two motions in a row, and believe me when I tell you, you're being beaten up in the air for nothing, you're being misjudged, and I'm going to explain it one by one. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0312par0378	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 14th Amendment bill on the prevention of the financing of terrorism in the current 409 rows. The article states that the following joke is added. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends (3) If needed or requested by the supervisors, it provides protection power to ensure safety for those assigned under the first joke. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0313par0387	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0312par0388	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0314par0389	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0312par0390	Who will speak, sir? Mr. Kuşoglu, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0315par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on the 14th Article of the Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism, whose number is 409. I salute you all. My dear friends, this bill came to the attention of the FATF. So if FATF hadn't had such a demand for international action force, without its powers, we probably wouldn't have brought up this law, we wouldn't have discussed such a law right now. Well, wouldn't we be fighting terrorism if it weren't for that kind of law? It's the state that's the key to fighting terrorism. If you're a state, if you're a state with your institutions, you fight terrorism. If you are a state, your institutions will do the necessary work, find out how much money is involved in financing terrorism, where that amount is provided, what resources are provided, how much goes to the gun, how much goes to the gun, how much is related to the other hardware. And then if there's a flaw in the legal dimension of the business, you say: "Ya, we're doing everything, we're making the findings, we're finding everything, we're detecting everything, but we're missing the legal dimension. Sadly, that is not the case. I would very much like the state to have made these assessments of our government, which brought in the bill, how much resources are being transferred to the financing of terrorism in Turkey, how many of them are from abroad, how many of them are from abroad, how many of them are from abroad, how many of them are from abroad, how much I would like this bill to be on the agenda for these solid reasons. And then this bill would come up. Besides, right now, there's no significant gap in the matter. There is a Law on the Absolving Crime revenues 5549, which, I believe, was organised and implemented in 2006. In the 19th article (e) of this Law, it gives MASAAK such authority on the prevention of terrorism, but what is important here is that the state cannot fight terrorism. There's a major flaw in the failure of the intelligence organization, the law enforcement and the state to fight terrorism as a whole, as a mechanism, there's a problem. So what we really need to criticize is the state mechanism, the problems of the state mechanism, the problems of the state mechanism, and we need to see them. In particular, with recent arrangements, with the recent staff, the state, unfortunately, has become inoperable; the state has entered a period of distress, devoid of state. It's unclear who's in the government's pocket, who's taking what, who's taking what, at this stage, the trouble, or there's no major problem with the law, the legal dimension. Of course, a better arrangement is true, it needs to be done, but the real problem is that the state is governed like a state, it's about its work, I'll tell you that. After that, it's very interesting to say that many NGOs, many other NGOs who are also close to power -- Mr. Kaplan -- have also pointed out -- are against this bill, such as NRH, MAZLUMDER, which I specifically state, are very interesting. Our motion, my dear friends, concerns the 14th Amendment. Mr. Secretary has refused, but the 14th and second of the 14th amendments are in fact authorized to be president, correct, and correct is the identification of those who will do the inspection. But there's a flaw here: you're fighting terrorism, financing, terrorism, and you're also giving these auditers money, which is good, but they need to be seen as necessary -- which is our proposal -- in the case of their demand, to ensure their safety. If you're fighting terrorism, you need to activate this kind of control personnel' demands and in case it's necessary. I don't understand why the Minister doesn't see the need for this. I think there's been a shortage. I, too, have faced this kind of situation in my time as a supervisor. This needs to be completed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0316par0404	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism is 15 of the 409 rows in question. We propose and propose that the clause be changed to "the requirements of the freeze of property according to these Law provisions, for those who have failed to comply with the decision, from six months to two years in prison, to those who have neglected to carry out the requirements of the decisions." Ali Riza Özturk Ali Özgündüz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray Malik Ecder Özdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 15 of Article 15 of Article 409 of "Advertisement of Terrorism" from the draft text. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Do you agree with the motion read, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0317par0423	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0316par0424	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0318par0425	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0316par0426	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0319par0428	Yes, dear friends, the right to rebellion stated in Article 3 of the Universal Statement is only used as a last resort in torture regimes, tyrants, he says. After the 9/11 attack, a global recognition was needed, and new definitions of genocide crimes, crimes against humanity and war crimes and new national superior courts were set up here. On 1 July 2002, the International Criminal Tribunal began its post in The Hague. Turkey doesn't want to be on the side of this International Criminal Tribunal, it doesn't sign the contract. And America doesn't want to be on the side, and it doesn't want to be Israel. Here's a question mark. So it turns out, friends, that when definitions change, some say that the terrorist is also a freedom fighter. Look, I'll give you an example from the House: wasn't the Hamas organization at the top of the list of terrorist organizations? He was. Has his leader, Meşal, come to this House? He's here. Has he visited all the party groups? He did. Come on, come on, what do you have to say about the description? I'll give you another example. Note this: The United Nations General Assembly of States Declaration No. 2625, in its definition of self-determination in which conditions may be applied, the government of a country does not represent the entire community, and if the government of a country is not democratic, the only exception is that innocent people are not killed if the war against colonialism is resorted to terrorism. Careful with the definitions, it's very important. Now, when you set out from this definition... we signed the Personal and Political Rights Convention here two years ago. He brought up the rule that freedom to destroy freedom cannot be recognized, and he makes state terror a very clear definition, and he says that it's good to focus on state terrorism. As these states support terrorism, antidemocratic states seem to resort to illegal violence in suppressing some opposition groups. It is impossible to find state terror in a state based on a multi-party democratic government that is based on freedom of the press, in accordance with the conditions of the legal state. He says it's a crime against humanity if it's done in the period of peace. We want samples? Milosevic. Now, we're going to be very careful with the definition, very careful with the frame. Especially if the gun ships pass through Yemen, and some companies in Turkey have guns in their biscuit boxes, and Al-Qaeda (Al-Qaeda)'s Al-Qaeda (Al-Qaeda)'s arm comes in and gets support from Rasulayn, you'll think you'll sit down. Who will be hit by this law that will come like boomerang? You'll think of him, you'll pay for him. There's been no terror here for 30 years. We'll talk about who's been eating feces in this country, who's been burning thousands of villages, who's committed thousands of unsolved murders. Nothing is as simple as it seems. We'll set up a framework so that we can correct these wrongs in our internal law first. In this law, whoever gave you the wisdom gave you the wrong reason, extended its framework against you. We'll keep warning from here. Another motion...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0320par0437	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The Law Bill on the Obstruction of Terrorism is 15 of the 409 rows in question. We propose and propose that the clause be changed to "the requirements of the freeze of property according to these Law provisions, for those who have failed to comply with the decision, from six months to two years in prison, to those who have neglected to carry out the requirements of the decisions." Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0321par0444	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0320par0445	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0322par0446	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0320par0447	Mr. Eryilmaz, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0323par0450	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of Article 15 of the Bill of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism we are discussing. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear MPs, there has been a conflict and chaos in Syria for about 24 months. As a result of this false Syrian policy followed by the government, nearly 60,000 citizens have died in Syria, a neighbour, a friend and a brother. Now, while we're discussing this law here, shouldn't we first ask the government this question? You may not like the administration in Syria, you may say that the administration in Syria must be changed, but we said that you can't give weapons support, training support, logistic support to groups trying to overthrow the Syrian government by using armed force, and when we said that, events had just begun, 2,000 people had died in Syria. But where we come from, it turns out how wrong the policy was. Will the support given to these armed groups be appreciated under this law? Today, there are armed terrorist groups like Al Qaeda militants, the Free Syrian Army militants, the Al Nusra Movement. As a matter of fact, El Nusra's armed group was last listed as a terrorist group in the United States. We're looking at the government's continued support for these armed groups. After this law is in effect tomorrow, will the government, which is cooperating with these armed groups, be assessed under this law, and their assets, particularly the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, be seized as part of this legislation because of the financing of terrorism? That's an important question. Mr. Secretary, I think you should question this first. We all know today that the government has given all kinds of support to these armed groups. We are well aware of the meetings held in Istanbul. We also read in the international press how the government is arm in arm with representatives of these armed groups and how it supports them. Now I want to give you an example. It's in the press. As many as 20 young people from various regions of Syria have been brought in from various regions of Syria to support the Syrian uprising and are conducting military operations in Syria, claims have been made by Turkish and Qatar intelligence officials. As part of this study, the Lebanese MP also stated that the armed groups are handing out significant money to their leaders and also that the opposition has met heavy gun demands. He also admitted that he had the voice recording of the media on this matter. Unfortunately, the government has no explanation so far for these serious allegations, both national and international criminal law crimes. There is also a meeting, a secret meeting, and the meeting includes Mr. Secretary of State, and decisions are made regarding financing and support of armed groups in this 12-point secret agreement. Now, I'm asking the government officials, the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State: you're going to make a law to fight terrorism financing on one side, and you're going to cooperate with armed groups fighting an armed war against a country right next to us. What a diet of sauerkraut! After this law is enforced, I hope that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister will be included in this law because of support for the Syrian opposition, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0324par0459	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 16 of the Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism No. 409 be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Haluk Eyidoğan Ahmet Toptaş Sedef Small Haydar Akar Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 16 of the Law Bill on the Financing of Terrorism in 409 rows from the draft text. One of the properties Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0325par0478	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0324par0479	Government
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0326par0480	We disagree, Mr. President. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0327par0483	Of course, 12 contracts have been signed on international terrorism so far. But the most interesting thing is that on November 21, 2001, the Law Commission takes a decision that condemns methods, methods, methods, and methods, but at the end of the decision, they say that member states cannot reach a decision on the definition of terrorism. Here are 12 international contracts... written on the bottom of the 9/11 incident. The European Convention on Anti-Terrorism and Punishment is a regional contract with which Turkey is on its side. Within the Council of Europe and Turkey side to this. Plane, hijacking, assaulting people in international areas, hostage taking, etcetera. The 5th article of this is that friends talk from time to time, confuse concepts. The country that has been asked to extradite is not obliged to return it if it believes that the state seeking extradition has done so to be judged by its race, language, or political belief. What did Turkey do recently? The Iraqi Vice President is a guest in Turkey based on this clause. Now, we're going to put some concepts in place without mixing them. And let me tell you something else. An accurate and objective definition of terrorism requires looking at international laws and principles that apply to national states, generally accepted. For this reason, as stated in the Geneva and Hague agreements, these rules indicate what can be done during the war and what cannot be done. For example, targeting civilians is unacceptable and strictly forbidden. So, what do advanced governments do if they send their planes, their armies, and someone's bombing something? They're terrorizing the state internationally. There are examples of that now. It happened in Rwanda, it happened in Mali, it happened in Libya, it exists in many countries. Now, if we leave from here, we'll get to this point. I'd like to remind you that we have friends in this House who have lived on March 1st. US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says on August 7, 2003, the Washington Post will replace the borders and maps of 22 governments, including Turkey. Yeah. Now, you can either change the boundaries by shrinking them, or you can change them by expanding them. We're going through a period in which this House should be extremely careful, very vigilant. We've been through the 90s, and we've been through the massacres in the 90s, the unsolved murders, the village burnings, and we've experienced the convictions of these terrible murders and state terrorism in the European courts, and we still haven't learned a lesson from it. Actually, it's so hard to learn. I'll take you to 1910. I'll take you to the age of legitimacy. In a proposal on education and health, Bitlis Mebusu says: "In order for the community to understand better, the children must be taught in Maarift through translation and negotiation with the local language. A hundred and three years ago, we're talking in Mebusan, a hundred and three years later at the Turkish National Assembly, but we have a definition of terror, and he considers it a terror to talk about it, my friends. Before this law is passed, before it's over, I have a suggestion for my friends from the AK PARTY. Get this TMK out of here, replace the administrative boards with the judiciary, at least it'll be good for you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0328par0491	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 16 of the Law on the Obstruction of Terrorism No. 409 be removed from the draft text. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0329par0498	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0328par0499	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0330par0500	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0328par0501	Mr. Little, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0331par0503	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 16 of the Bill of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we all agree on this. In both our country and internationally, terrorism has caused and has caused unspeakable suffering. That's right, the dehydration of the financial source of terrorism is undisputable in the prevention and elimination of terrorism. However, just because we all agree on these matters does not mean that we agree on everything that is put into the concept of terrorism. As you know, there is no clear and clear definition of terrorism in the International Contract on the prevention of the United Nations' financing of terrorism based on this law. Therefore, the bill we discussed has been referred to as the definition of terror in the Anti-Terror Law. However, the experiences we've had over the years, the practices of courts, the understanding of law enforcement, have shown us what can be put into the definition of terror in Turkey, into organised crime. Now we all know there's a twisted sense of terror in this country that we see in courts, prosecutors, from time to time. Anyone who opposes can be introduced into the definition of terror. The fact that the officers, former Chief of Staff, former police chiefs, those who took office in the security bureaucracy, were in prison today on terror charges has become history as a freak almost never seen on the face of the earth. Since they used the most innocent form of protest, the students were considered terrorists because they opened the sign of education without money, their future was blackened. In this country, scientists are considered terrorists by what they write. The mayors of opposition parties have been treated with great ease as organised crime, while no investigation has been made about the ruling party's mayors. It is clear that the definition of terrorist crimes in our country is not interpreted according to international norms and standards. It is not clear and clear which crimes will be considered terrorist crimes, but it has been left at the mercy of special court prosecutors. It shouldn't be hard to imagine how the law that we're interviewing in a country where the opponents or those who are thought to be involved are so easily introduced into the concept of terrorism would turn into a tool of intimidation. Many MPs from different parties who have already made promises here have rightly expressed this concern. This has now become a situation where even the government complains about it, so we all agree that we have a warped judgment and prosecution system. Unfortunately, in our country, the sense of justice has been hurt. See, according to a study in our press, 35,000 people have been convicted of terrorism in the world since 9/11 attacks. 12,000 of these 35,000 people are in Turkey. Although we can't compete with China of 1 billion 300 million people on other issues, we are clearly competing over the number of terrorists. Dear lawmakers, it is, of course, a natural right for every state, to ensure the safety of its people against terrorism. Here, however, we need to be very careful about the balance between the need for safety and the freedoms. If this balance is broken against freedoms, those who want to destroy terror become terrorists. Especially if that understanding makes opposition a means of suppressing criticism against the government, it's not called security, it's called arbitrary use of the law, it's authoritarian, it's state terrorism. Once again, I express our legitimate concern that if this bill becomes legal, it will lead to arbitrary practices, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0332par0513	Thank you, Mr. Little. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. Article 16 accepted. There are two motions on Article 17 of the same nature. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 17 of the Charter on the Obstruction of Terrorism No. 409, which is currently being discussed from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Faik Öztrak Turgut Dibek Haydar Akar Ali İhsan İkturk Haluk Eyidoğan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ahmet Toptaş Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 17 of Article 17 of Article 409 of "Procession of Anti-Terrorism." One of the properties Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Do you agree with the same motions, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0333par0533	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0332par0534	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0334par0535	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0335par0536	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0332par0537	I'm having him read his motive: This structure must be removed from the article's draft text, as it is decided on issues involving the judicial duties and responsibilities of those appointed to cover the duties and responsibilities of the President of the Financial Crimes Research Board, which is envisioned in the draft bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. I'm running the alibi on the other motion.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0336par0541	Faik Öztrak will speak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0332par0542	Mr. Oztrak, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0337par0544	Mr. President, I respectfully salute the General Assembly as they begin with our motion to issue a motion on Article 17 of the Bill of Law on the Financing of Terrorism. Dear lawmakers, the aim of this bill is to establish a procedure to harmonise our internal law and implement the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, which was approved by our Parliament in 2002. As an honorary member of the international community, it is also necessary to fulfill the requirements of the contracts that are part of the international community. Since this has not been carried out for ten years, Turkey has begun to be mentioned by the OECD Financial Action Task Force among countries funding terrorism. Now, I'm curious, you've been in power alone for ten years, why haven't you fulfilled the terms of this contract that our Parliament has agreed to? What's the reason why we don't care if the international community even shows our country as funding for terrorism? Is it a violation of the law that a number of organizations called NGOs who are alleged to have organic ties to HAMAS, who are also said to have been a surrogate? Or do you fear that organizations such as Lighthouses, whose name is involved in the fraud of the century from abroad, will receive demands? Since your arrival in power, we will make this law. You have occupied the United Nations, the European Union, the OECD, and the OECD. When the C.I.A. President visited the Prime Minister, the Action Force threatened to put Turkey in the same category as Iran and North Korea, if there was no law by the end of February, that's when you rushed your old bill in the parliament to the General Assembly with proposals. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs do not say that the United Nations Security Council, Resolution 1267, only the property of Al-Qaeda (Al-Qaeda) and the Taliban (Taliban) will be confiscated. The same committee also has financial sanctions and seizure of property for Iranian banks, Iranian nuclear companies and their owners. Since we're organizing the United Nations Security Council resolutions to apply to our internal law, let's include these sanctions in the bill. Why don't you take it? The United States of America is taking steps to cut the ties between banks and American banks that have a reporter relationship with Iran. The European Union has also banned Iranian banks from trading with Europe, including the Iranian Central Bank. The United States Senate and the European media have allegations that Turkey has provided covert means to free Iran from sanctions imposed by the United Nations, that the Iranian Central Bank has used several financial institutions in Turkey for its own operations, that its brokers in Turkey have purchased financial institutions for Iran in Europe. Dear lawmakers, this government, which quickly established the missile shield in Malatya versus Iran, hesitates to implement the fiscal sanctions of the United Nations against the same Iran. It's as if there's no more running for this government when it comes to money. Look, last year, Iran was exported to pay for natural gas with gold. The Deputy Prime Minister admitted it under the roof of this House. Last year's export champion was gold when the payment was shown. I'm asking the government here: is the money of Iranian banks subject to UN sanctions being sent to Turkey? Is there an unregistered money entering Turkey on the Iranian-Turkey border? Who's getting what out of this? What public banks mediated the transactions of gold that were sent to Iran last year to pay for natural gas? Who withdrew the money from these banks and where did the gold come from? Is it a coincidence that Iran was first in the number of foreign companies opened in Turkey in the last two years? Why is it that Iran is responsible for the foreign deposits in Turkish banks? Is MASAK overseeing these companies and accounts? What political mind, what foreign policy could be the product of placing Turkey in the position of a country suspected of laundering another country's money? Dear lawmakers, the investigation and prosecution of terrorism against a foreign state or international institution is dropped at the request of the Ministry of Justice. This prevents prosecutors in Turkey from conducting self-investigation against members of some organizations who do not disturb the government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... or, on the contrary, the government could freeze the property abroad from the opposition, which has been declared a terrorist, as a presumption of September 12th coup. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I end my words here, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0338par0557	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. The motions of the same nature will be put to your votes...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0339par0559	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0338par0560	Yeah, I'm gonna take a vote, and I'm gonna call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Yes, there's hesitation, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the motions have not been accepted, there is a sufficient number of decisions. Now, before you submit the 17th article to your votes, the Commission has a request to make amends, and I will do so. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0340par0569	Mr. President, we would like to submit to the 17th amendment of the underlying bill, which is listed on the list number 1, that the adjudication of the subsidiary of the property shall be dismissed as assistant expert.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0338par0570	Thank you. In accordance with this correction, I submit the 17th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 18 of Article 18 of the Charter on the Obstructory of Talking Terrorism 409 from the draft text. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Haluk Eyidoğan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ahmet Toptaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Article 18 of the Bill of the Law be removed from the draft text on the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. One of the properties Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0341par0588	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0338par0589	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0342par0590	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0338par0591	I'm having it read. Taking into account the bill of the TMK, which led to anti-democratic practices, and predicting the change in this scope, will not reduce the existing anti-democratic practices, but will increase the opposite. Therefore, we propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0343par0595	Mr. Ozturk will speak.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0338par0596	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0344par0598	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, this bill was actually made to meet the requirements proposed by the International Agreement, and FATF, to prevent the financing of terrorism. Before that, there were decisions about Turkey. I, here, now, will raise clear questions to the government, and I'd like to get the answers to those questions. 1) Since the international contract on financing terrorism has not been met and the UN Security Council decisions have not been implemented, has Turkey been blacklisted by the OECD Financial Action Task Force as a risk of financing its power? 2) Has it been revealed to the international community that it is funding terrorism? 3) Are Turkey among countries such as Ghana, Ethiopia, Kenya, Myanmar, Syria, also exposed by FATF for funding terrorism? 4) Because Turkey is blacklisted, has Turkish banks' creditability become questionable? So what do you say about the allegations that our trades with foreign countries have brought difficulties to our banks, to our businessmen? 5) What do you say the international community began to signal that it was beginning to isolate your government because it was at risk of funding potential terrorism? In your ten years of power, why haven't you fulfilled its requirements so far? What have you been waiting for, and the international community has exposed you as funding for terrorism? 6) Is it because you fear that Germany, the Netherlands, will receive demand from international organisations and Western states in order to seize the property of associations such as the Lighthouse, No One Association, or that you will be entrusted with the alleged terrorist organization of Hamas? 7) Are the United Nations Security Council's financial sanctions on Iranian banks, Iranian nuclear companies and their owners? 8) If you're organizing the UN Security Council decisions to apply to our internal law, why don't you include these sanctions in the bill? 9) On May 3, 2011 in the American Senate, why do you not apply the law on Iranian sanctions about the public bank of Turkey and some firms who have been listed for supporting or related to the nuclear production of Iran? Why don't you identify the Turkish organisation, which has been declared a terrorist by Germany and the Netherlands, as a terrorist organization and apply sanctions because of its connection to Hamas, and how do you feel about it? 10) In the May 3, 2011 session, Senator Menendez says: I know that the government of Erdoğan has been oppressed by our state because of its financial ties to Iran. It is clear that Turkey has turned its face to carry out illegal funding currents supporting Iran's nuclear programme and is trying to establish alternative financial mechanisms in Turkey to reach the European market by going behind UN and European sanctions. What do you say? 11) Under the laws and decrees issued in the United States, do you expect soon the banks that have a reporter's relationship with Iran to be cut off from American banks? 12) Has the European Union banned Iranian banks from dealing with Europe, including the Iranian Central Bank? 13) What do you say about the allegations in the European press that Turkey has been providing secret funds to Iran to free Iran from the sanctions imposed by the United Nations; that the Iranian Central Bank is providing banking activities; that it uses several financial institutions in Turkey for its own transactions; that its brokers in Turkey have purchased financial institutions for Iran in Europe? What is the reason why your government, who can deploy NATO missile shield against Iran, refrains from implementing U.N. financial sanctions against Iran? 15) Is the money of Iranian banks subject to UN sanctions being sent to Turkey as alleged? Is money entering Turkey from the Iranian-Turkey border unregistered? If there is such an entry of money, where is this source distributed in the country? Who's getting what out of this? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If that's not the case, then why did the net error of the balance sheet represent the off-the-book source inputs of the balance sheet in terms of the unregistered cash entry of the missing pen reach record levels in the history of the republic during your administration? If that's not the case, why was the country's largest company in Turkey last year built with Iranian capital? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0619	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0346par0623	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0624	You want roll call. Let's find out what they're called. Mr. İktük, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Gök, Mr. Çam, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tüçük, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Güler, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Turk, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Bulut. Thank you. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 19th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th Amendment on the Obstruction of Anti-Terrorism. Article 1 of the article. 2 of his joke. We propose and propose that the word.. six months of the sentence be changed to one year. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Haluk Eyidoğan Ahmet Toptaş Veli Ağbaba Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 409 rows of ▪ We propose and propose that the 19th article of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of the 19th Amendment on the prevention of the financing of terrorism. One of the properties Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0347par0655	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0656	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0348par0657	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0349par0658	Motive.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0659	The reason, please. It is quite wrong to determine ministries that will determine the regulation without adequate regulations in the draft text. All regulations that will be created before the bill is drawn to UN standards will be wrong. Therefore, we propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th Amendment on the Obstruction of Anti-Terrorism. Article 1 of the article. 2 of his joke. We propose and propose that the word.. six months of the sentence be changed to one year. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0350par0668	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0669	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0351par0670	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0671	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0352par0672	Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0345par0673	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0353par0675	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the highest level of terrorism in countries ruled by democracy is that terrorism is not just about algebra and violence. Terror is now, at times, also perceived as state terror, other than the armed action or violence of an organization in countries, in the modern world and in the highest concept of human rights. At this point where we're discussing the financing of terrorism, what democratic countries is it that a government is putting extraordinary pressure on the municipalities of its own party to digest the opposition municipalities, my dear friends? Other than Turkey, you can't show it in the modern world in any democratic country... The size of the process of intimidation, discreditation and oppression towards non-existent municipalities of the AKP's power now stands before us as a major terror agent that may take the first place in the world. We are experiencing a period when there is no interference with the Justice and Development Party municipalities in the face of the sizes of intimidation operations to Eskişehir Municipality, İzmir Municipality, Cumhuriyet People's Party or other municipalities. Days earlier, you've all seen from the press an operation against Eskişehir Municipality, which has made Eskişehir a European city, but I would like to announce to all our citizens who love democracy that these operations against the city of Eskişehir are also being released at this point, where they are being discredited. Once again, the step of power has returned from judgment, my dear friends. But during the time that people remain under arrest, the pressures, the griefs, will be in the memory of history as a first-degree indicator of the antidemocratic practices of your power. Why is there no interference with Ankara Municipality? I just told you the day before yesterday where D.C.gas came from. You've seen from the press how uncomfortable even the prime minister is, but what are the words the mayor said at a press conference yesterday, not terrorism, my dear friends, when he said that Ankara has received a prize in European cities, in exchange for money, in exchange for a reminisce? In what modern democratic societies in the world do I have the authority to examine a press agency and its owners, its rulers, under special lens, among the duties of a mayor, my dear friends? What is it with a special lens and a mayor watching the executives of a press company? What is underlying it? Is it possible that in Turkey, the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor has a duty other than the MIT, other than the peace, other than the police? Do they have wiretaps, cops, detectives? What will this mayor examine, by what authority? A mayor's job is to build a subway; he couldn't. It's making roads; it can't. Bringing water to Ankara is water from Kesiköpru Dam, we can't even use it. That's where the mayor reaches today, is one of the points the modern world describes terror. Terror is not always armed; terrorism is also created when your resources are used to intimidate opposition. We need to talk about this. These interesting events that have happened in Turkey these days, when we talk about financing terrorism, are also an indication of where power will bring opposition through its own pressure, by digesting it, by concealing all the facts in our country. We strongly oppose it. This law will return to you one day. It is a fact that today the government is arm in arm with many who are involved in international terrorism. More than that, the President of Sudan visited Turkey last year, leading terrorist organizations around the world and being a blacklisted leader. You hold his hand, you hold the hand of the opposition in Syria, and you stand up in Turkey, talking about preventing terrorism. No one will be deceived or deceived. In this framework, we once again warn the government: "Be democratic, respect human rights, I salute all of you with love and respect."
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0354par0686	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 19 is accepted. There are two motions of the same nature on the Interim Article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the Interim Article 1 of the Charter on the Obstruction of Terrorism from the draft text. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the temporary provision of the bill on the prevention of the current financing of terrorism be removed from the draft text of Article 1. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Muharrem Light Ali İhsan İkturk Haluk Eyidoğan Ahmet Toptaş Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Haydar Akar Mr. Commission, do you agree with the two motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0355par0705	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0354par0706	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0356par0707	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0354par0708	Who's talking?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0357par0709	Muharrem Light.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0354par0710	Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0358par0712	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss our motion on temporary matter one. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, why was the terror financing law brought in and now it's been waiting for ten years? Of course, you have to think about that first. The first factor is that America is constantly imposed. America, especially after 9/11, tried to get revenge on this law. You've tried to stop it for ten years, but you finally had to bring it. Of course, when we bring it in, the U.S. will do something here in its own interest, especially to prevent international terrorism funding. Another reason is that you're bringing in this law to put away those who don't come in your own favor. Of course, why didn't you bring it by now? The reason you haven't brought it up so far is that you probably haven't been able to secure anyone, and now that you've secured it, it's probably because of that, the law has now arrived. And a third reason is your conflicts with the congregation, which no one has told you about. And as a result of these conflicts, you brought this law to prevail in that secret war, and you're going to use it as a hot rod. Because even though you had all the justice, whether it was HSYK or other institutions, you still couldn't make the judgment, especially the prosecutors and the judges, your own men. The last time, even in the decision on the president of the MIT, you passed a law in one day and opened the way for such a law to prevent it. Of course, when we look at the Evaluation Commission, we have MASAK and other institutions here. The judgment seems almost to be absent. MASAK, along with other institutions that will decide all things. Then the Council of Ministers will accept it directly and approve it when it comes to the Council of Ministers -- since it is already your staff in MASAK. You, of course, never... you get angry when we say it, but you never believed in the separation of forces. It's especially difficult for you, perhaps, to say his name, but we're proud to say that when our Kamer Young Brother comes up here and says something, you start screaming. You're bringing this in to prove it. And in this law that you brought in, you want the citizen or the person who was arrested or the person who was seized of his property to prove himself. Now, WikiLeaks, you've been putting hundreds of people to bed with what a former suitcase journalist had packed and delivered for years, but you don't give a damn about the WikiLeaks document. Then you need to prove it. When we say "shipboys," when we say "ships," when we say "states," when we say "patients," when we call it deposits in the banks, or when we say "banks," why do you keep yelling and yelling? Isn't the MASAK coming tomorrow going to ask you the same question? They'll ask you the same thing. They'll look into that, too. But of course, you're so attached right now that you think you're always going to stay, but unfortunately, the end of this is starting to appear. Of course, the most important thing in this law is the use of good intentions, bad intentions. We can't seek goodwill in this law because we haven't seen good intentions for anyone who's ever opposed you. In particular, our deputy just told us that when we see all the attacks against our municipalities, what happens in AKP municipalities or other opposition municipalities is already revealed. Of course, MASAK is currently standing on top of municipalities. I've made a statement to MASAK: "Never let the opposition breathe. " You will continue without a breath to the municipalities of the opposition. Speaking of intentions, I'd like to open a parentheses because it's important. When our friend made a statement when something happened to him, he said something about friends. Mr. Prime Minister made headlines in the papers for five days and ten days. But when your deputy said that our children were my children, we couldn't see it in any newspaper, we couldn't see it in the press. That's how biased you are at work. Yeah, that's what happens in advanced democracies. Of course, the AK PARTY does not want to support the division of forces -- as I said. What he really wants is for everything to happen to him. One of the most important things in this law, I think, is hiding, whether the United States wants it or other opponents... you're already bringing in the opposition by finding what you want when you want it. But what I've just said and I'd like to repeat is that in this particular law -- you'll be back tomorrow -- you've started threatening congregations, classrooms, and then the MIT incident, and that's where it's coming from. Of course, you have to remember that, you know, right now, at 4:00 a.m., the police are knocking on the door. After you go upside down tomorrow, but in our power or when a righteous power comes, the mailman will come knocking on your door because you passed this law, and that law will have to be enforced until it changes. The postman will tell you: "Come and judge the court for the preaching. You will be cleared if you fail, and if you are not white, you will go with your own law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0359par0730	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Buldan?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0360par0732	The reason is the president.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0359par0733	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Decisions made by the Council of Ministers have been intended to prevent the harm done in implementing the implementation of the law. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the interim article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 20th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 20th Amendment bill on the prevention of the financing of terrorism that is currently under way 409. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Haluk Eyidoğan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ahmet Toptaş Article 20 - (1) It comes into effect a year after the date of the publication of the law Do you agree with the motion read, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0361par0749	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0359par0750	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0362par0751	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0359par0752	Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0363par0754	Mr. President, members of Parliament, I salute you with love and respect. We're discussing the law on financing terrorism in 409 rows, but it's not just terrorism. We need to stand up to terrorism, we need to stand up to war, we need to stand up to all the injustices and injustices that are going on in the world. Look, friends, one of the most important reasons for terrorism and war is poverty, hunger, poverty, injustice and injustice. Ten per cent of the world's population controls 70 per cent of the world's products and services, controlling 70 per cent of the income, and 90 per cent of the world's population shares only 30 per cent. We have 7 billion people living in the world. 2.8 billion of our people live on less than $2 a day. Again, 1.2 billion people from seven billion of our people live on just under a dollar income. About 18 million people die each year depending on poverty. Under 5 years of age, 195 million children lose their lives every year. Dear friends, it can't be such a twisted world. Where there is so much injustice, so much poverty, so much corruption, there will be terror, whether it's war or not, people who fight this war will go out on the streets. See, there are 950 million hungry people in the world, according to the latest figures explained by the United Nations World Food Organization, the FAO. That's only 25 billion dollars to be reduced to 400 million by 2015, my friends. But 25 billion dollars can't be found, and poverty, hunger, can't be reduced to 400 million. But look, guys, in the last Iraq war, in the war in Afghanistan, the United States and its allies' weapons spending is $1 trillion, friends. A trillion dollars is earmarked for war and arms, but 25 billion dollars are being avoided and spent to reduce 950 million hungry people to 400 million in the world. Two billion people in the world can't find clean drinking water, one and a half billion people can't reach electricity, friends, but in return, there's money for war and weapons and terrorism. We need to stand up to war and weapons in any way, we need to stand up to terrorism. In order for more of our people not to die, we need to put a budget on hunger, poverty, poverty. But yesterday, Mr. Secretary explained it here. The amount of money spent on Syria is $610 million, or $610 trillion in old money. The money sent to Libya is $300 million, friends. Well, for what, why? Are they sending 610 million dollars in Syria to kill each other, friends? Why, why friends? That's why we have to stand up to war, to oppose exploitation. We need to do everything in our power and effort to ensure that peace and brotherhood are established all over the world. While we should be budgeting for education, health, peace, and brotherhood, housing, we should not be spending money on guns. Therefore, we wish for a world without wars and exploitation. For this, we pray for peace in the country and in our world, and we must do all we can to make peace and brotherhood prevail in the Middle East. The law you have brought is not only against terrorism, my friends, but you are creating your own state. Look, because he wanted free education, because he attended the Group Comment concert, because he attended May 1st, you will arrest the worker, the villager, the pensioner, the widow, the orphan, the union man, the laborer, everyone, and the people who helped them. You will arrest them the next day. That's not true. It's antidemocratic practice, but it'll come back one day like a boomerang, and it'll come back and shoot you. Therefore, I once again urge you to rebel against capitalism, against imperialism, against war, against exploitation. I salute you all with love and respect, my friends.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0364par0764	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of Article 20 of the Bill of the Law be removed from the draft text on the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. One of the properties Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0365par0774	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0364par0775	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0366par0776	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0367par0777	Motive...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0364par0778	I'm reading the reason: Due to the shortcomings and errors in the bill, the item must be removed from the text of matter. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 21st Amendment bill on the prevention of the financing of terrorism that is currently being held on 409. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Haluk Eyidoğan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ahmet Toptaş Article 21- (1) The Minister of Finance shall carry out these laws. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0368par0795	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0364par0796	Government?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0369par0797	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0364par0798	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0370par0800	Mr. President, as this bill is being discussed, we've said a lot of things: we also know that the financing of terrorism, the elimination of terrorism, the fact that our country is a country that has suffered for many years, and because of the loss of thousands of its children, the end of terrorism and the financing of terrorism is as important to the entire world as it is to our country, and we know that we have an agreement to prevent international terrorism from financing, and we also know that the Financial Action Force has a certain commitment to our country on this issue, and we know that the result is that our country can face certain sanctions. We said that this bill would be passed, of course, by resolving some of their setbacks, because if you've signed international agreements, if we all want to avoid financing terrorism, and if we're all in pain. But what was the most fundamental issue of this law, my friends, why did we object? What do both the United Nations agreements that we signed and the directives or instructions given to us by the Financial Action Force, or the instructions given to all countries? According to your own internal law, set up your mechanisms in your country, which can be decided as quickly as possible to freeze the assets of those who finance terrorism. See, he doesn't say "administration," he says "set up your legal, legal, or administrative units." Now, what did you do when it was called legal and administrative units? You only run administrative agencies; you missed the legal department, the judiciary once. That's why we have a fundamental objection. Of course, it'll come from the United Nations Security Council, which is the decision of the Committee for Actions, but first of all, we'd like to take it through the judicial process. Again, we'd like to go through the judicial process of the organizations from other countries that have led to the financing of terrorism in our country. Again, we say that any action involving those who finance terrorism in our own country must be passed through the judicial process. Despite partly operating this in our own country, we didn't run the judicial process from other countries and from the United Nations, and I've just explained that even the practice of Switzerland -- which is advanced in your country -- has been sanctioned by the European Court of Human Rights. And because of these mistakes, because of our warnings, tomorrow at the European Court of Human Rights, the State of the Republic of Turkey is sentenced to compensation, you are responsible for them, my friends. Now, today, you feel like absolute power, and for that, you say we can handle it with administrative sanctions, but we say, friends, let independent judgment be a system controlled by independent judgment. You may feel like absolute power today, you may feel strong in administrative and judicial matters, but such a system, which is not controlled by independent justice, will leave us with serious issues of democracy in the international community and in our country. Now, what we want is not the current -- you're politicizing -- or a judicial process that you've given to the Constitutional Compromise Commission, the HSYK, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, which completely destroys the Supreme Court, you're under your control, you're under your control, and you're under your control. We say there should be a truly independent and impartial judicial process. You don't care about any of that now, because we have the event, and you say no one can touch us anyway. Friends, every dark period will be a time of light. You'll need the law one day. You'll regret taking it that way tomorrow, because those legal arrangements can be used against you as well. It's used against us today, it's used against those who oppose us, but tomorrow an antidemocratic power outside of you can be used against you if it comes. But when we come, my friends, you will all see that we will lift all these antidemocratic judgments, and that we, you, and this country, are the main pioneers of the democratic security of all citizens. I give you all my regards, my love. You're ignoring our warnings, but I hope you're all wrong. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0371par0808	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 21st article is accepted. The negotiations of the bill are complete. Now, under the Civil Code, I'm going to make a pledge to lawmakers who want a word in favor and against it. In favor of being in favor, Mr. Fehmi Cubic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0372par0818	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the color of my vote on the bill on the financing of terrorism in 409 rows. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, the fight against terrorism and terrorist financing is of great importance to every citizen of the Republic of Turkey, who has long paid heavy prices for terrorism. In this framework, it is one of the top priorities of the state of Turkey to always be on the side of a common struggle with international supporters of terrorism and terrorism. However, after terrorism has become a global threat from a local problem, the international community has sped up its work in this area and focused on the work of legal regulation. In the fight against terrorism, many international organisations, particularly the United Nations, are conducting efforts to combat terrorism, in order to ensure that all countries unite on a common platform of action, and in the fight against terrorism, without compromise in the social and economic gains that humanity has provided so far, without compromise. The United Nations, tasked with protecting international peace and security, has made a number of Security Council decisions on the prevention of financing terrorism and terrorism, as well as on the authority to determine joint measures and sanctions under the United Nations requirements. Dear lawmakers, these decisions concerning financing terrorism and terrorism include regulations concerning freezing the assets of individuals and organisations that are connected to these organisations, usually towards some terrorist organisations and terrorists, and in this regard, call on the governments to cooperate. The most important of these decisions are decisions 1267 and 1373. This bill has been drafted to determine the basis for the organisation of terrorism financing and the freezing of assets by the United Nations Security Council and foreign states and our country in order to prevent financing terrorism, in order to ensure that our country's entity is a part of our domestic law as well as that of our country's international obligation. The bill is primarily in two areas -- one of which is the redefinement of terrorism financing in Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law; and the second is that the implementation of the measure of freezing property as an administrative measure is the regulation of the procedure and the basis of the implementation of this measure, in line with international agreements, where the financing of terrorism is redefined. It became part of our internal law on 01/04/2002. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, if I have to address four fundamental issues in the sense that maybe I can answer one of the basic reviews of this law, and use the time more saver... One: The United Nations Security Council is automatically charged with implementing its decisions under the 90th Amendment of our Constitution by order of the Council of Ministers. Second: At the request of foreign states, the Evaluation Commission recommends reciprocity, reciprocity, reciprocity, collateral, motive and investigation within a year. Therefore, this is also subject to judicial supervision under our Constitution. The third issue is our request from foreign governments to freeze the goods. Fourth: Regarding the assets found in Turkey... this is also subject to CMK 128 seizure provisions, hence CMUK. Thus, under the law, which we signed in 99, which we made part of our civil law in 2002, our Parliament is already subject to administrative and judicial control while implementing it. Of course, the appreciation for the bill's legalisation and the tally belongs to the High Council. I hereby declare that I am in favor of this bill, again, that it should be legalized... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to contribute to the unity and unity of this country, to the brotherhood's law, and to all of you, my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0373par0835	Thank you, Mr. Cube. To state the color of the game, Mr. Kamer Young is a member of the Tunceli Congress. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0839	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to state the color of my vote before the final vote on the bill for the prevention of the financing of terrorism by Bill 409. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I gave a speech here yesterday, and I made a personal speech at the head of a department. In my speech there, I said: "No matter how much the political government listens to the law, no matter how much the political power is comfortable in a healthy, established justice institution in a country, the important thing is that the judiciary has to decide whether it is neutral, independent, right, justice." I gave an example in WikiLeaks documents concerning Erdoğan, and I told them that it has money in Swiss banks. What's the most honest, honorable, right thing to do here? Republican prosecutors and Finance Ministry's Council of Financial Crimes will write to Swiss banks in the name of the Government of the Republic of Turkey: does Tayyip Erdoğan have an account in your banks, or not? This is the only way.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0375par0842	He replied that there was no such thing.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0843	They don't write it down, the prosecutor says: "Sir, there's no wet signature." And then they run away. The meaning of this escape is evidence that he has money in Swiss banks. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] See, now, Nurettin Canikli came out of here yesterday, and he says, "Sir, how many times did our Prime Minister say, "I don't have any money?" "Friends, if crime, theft, misdemeanor fur, no one will take it upon themselves, no one will say I'm a thief." Nobody will say, "I'm a thief. I've committed corruption." There's only one way, the judicial authorities have made decisions. So, with all this in the open, Nurettin came out of his mind and he's answering me. I wish I was here to answer that. Now, I said, look, in my speech yesterday, I said, "Look, friends, I say that Greeks have occupied 16 Turkish islands." See, we also say, "Well, seven kilometers of continents of economic territory, and the Greek Cypriot administration has occupied 7,000 kilometers of land that belongs to Turkey." Now, it says there that Nurettin... he doesn't understand what the Greeks are doing, he says, what the Greeks are doing, what the Greeks are doing. If he's brave, let's go on TV with Recep Erdogan and Abdullah Gul and talk about it. Who's lying, who's not.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0376par0847	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0377par0848	What the hell is wrong with you?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0849	Gentlemen, look, in your era of power, Turkey has been sold. Turkey's islands are occupied by Greeks. You don't take care of this government.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0378par0850	Don't bother, you can't provoke.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0851	You've destroyed the basic institutions of the state. Over there, the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission is laughing at me. You're actually laughing at yourself. You are not qualified to represent the State of the Republic of Turkey. You destroyed Turkey. You've discredited him on all levels internationally. So let's go out, let's talk about this on TV.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0379par0852	Go to the doctor. Go to the doctor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0853	Let your rice come and your king come, and we will speak of your corruption on every ground and every place. If I'm defeated before you, I'm an asshole if I don't resign as a member of parliament, but if you're defeated, then you'll withdraw from the government. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys, look, there's so much corruption... the Greeks are occupying 16 Turkish islands, the Greek thing Karamanlis is coming... not Karamanlis, sorry. The Greek Prime Minister is coming, and at the meeting of the foreign embassies in Erzurum, he says: "Your planes are flying over our territory." Neither does Erdoğan. You're going to pay very dearly for this.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0380par0857	Speak with respect, respect!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0858	You're laughing, and others will sink into the ground for shame!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0381par0859	Go to the doctor, the doctor!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0374par0860	If, in a country, power abandons the land of that state, invades its territory, it has no power, it is no longer a power of honor and dignity, it is no longer a state to represent. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] So you destroyed Turkey, destroyed everything, destroyed it with its army, destroyed it with its national training, brought it to ruin by its judgment, and made Turkey a colonial state. I'm afraid even the Greek Cypriot state will come and invade you tomorrow. Because I don't respect any of your savings, I'm against every law and I'll vote against it.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0382par0865	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0383par0866	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0382par0867	You don't have to, Ahmet.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0383par0868	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0382par0869	Here, two minutes, but I mean...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0383par0872	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, just at night, this law is over. Again, a friend of ours, who, as usual, mixed the straw with the straw, expressed his usual insults again with his attitude that was out of order.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0384par0874	Answer the allegations.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0383par0875	Dear friends, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this is the stand of the nation, and the speakers are the MPs, you should at least respect this nation. Now, once you didn't agree, you made a promise against it. Have you looked at the content of this law? One. Second, it is the most fundamental universal principle of our law, which is bound to prove every challenge.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0385par0878	You tell the truth. Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0383par0879	If the contractor doesn't prove his claim, he's a mufti. You're full of shit. It's a sin! It's a shame, it's a shame. All these slanders, all these doodles -- every time -- look, you've been talking in this House for 30 years, maybe you've been talking in this Parliament, look at the last ten years, you can count on its content, you can't bet on ten allegations; ten slanders, ten smears -- all the same things -- you're saying the same things. Oh, my God! These have been denied many times. I'll tell you to go to the judge, but you have to go to the doctor before the trial. First go to the doctor, first look at your mental powers, then come talk to me here. (AK PARTY) We give the answers to all of this. All of these have been answered many times, given by the concerned, but you still, if you still insist on going wherever you go -- God knows -- it's something you'll say, you'll appreciate, but this nation appreciates: every time you talk here, every time you talk, there's nothing to say back if the people are raising the votes of the AK PARTI. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0386par0882	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0387par0883	Mr. President, he teased me, so you're lying. He said, "You have to go to the doctor."
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0388par0884	You get a check-up, you get a check-up when you get to the doctor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0387par0885	I have to explain that I shouldn't go to the doctor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0389par0886	He said it for your health, for your health!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0387par0887	You're not in your right mind, he says, which means you're not in your right mind. There's bullying.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0390par0888	What about your place?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0391par0889	Let's take a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0392par0890	Mr. President, I didn't insult you, I said go to the doctor.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0390par0891	Yeah, one second, one second... Tell me where you are.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0393par0893	Sarcasm on the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0390par0894	Mr. Slim, come in. Your group's acting president wants a word.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0393par0896	Which group is the vice president?
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0390par0897	Mr. Slim, come in, please, without further ado.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0394par0900	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, from time to time, here we are, in that nervous environment, speaking out of line. I don't think it's right to call the country's Prime Minister, I don't think it's right. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) You can call me Prime Minister. I don't find it right. But don't go to the judge, go to the doctor. I don't think it's right to say it. I didn't find either of them right. Third, these allegations are not the claims of Mr. Kamer Young, but the claims of CHP. These allegations are the claims of American documents. You must ask the Americans, not Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0395par0903	Don't defend this man, don't really defend him!
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0394par0904	What doesn't have a document? I swear to you: from a man who gets a driver's license, he's got no problems with his eyes... he doesn't owe a government contract, he doesn't owe a loan, he doesn't owe a loan from a citizen, he doesn't have any interest in the canteen; he doesn't have a military relationship with a young man who wants to get a job; he doesn't have a criminal record to be a congressman; he doesn't have a green card, he doesn't have a disability. Now, look, we don't own these allegations, you don't have to be mad at us. If you're gonna be mad...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0395par0906	We're not mad at you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0394par0907	Mr. Young doesn't have any claims either. It's the American documents that claim.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0396par0908	We've said it over and over and over again.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0394par0909	That's easy. Switzerland and I have an agreement. You write to the Swiss banks, you don't have an account like this. You take the document, you bring it, you wave it over the CHP, you show it. That's easy. It can be done, but you don't have to be mad at us.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0396par0910	I can make a lot of bets, too.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0394par0911	I guess it could be. It's for everyone. It's for everyone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ahmet Aydın, it's about you too. If you ask me, it's about me, it's about everyone.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0396par0914	But that's where you can't talk! The document is spoken for.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0397par0915	Mr. Slim, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0394par0916	We don't own these claims, I just want to say it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0397par0919	Mr. Slim, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0398par0920	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0397par0921	Friends, the whole bill...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0398par0922	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0397par0923	Mr. President, if you please. Let's vote.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0399par0924	Mr. President, there's been enough discussion. Use initiative.
tbmm-2013-02-07sit02spe0397par0930	[[Continue]] The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will deliver the ballots within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, if there are any ministers who will vote as acting ministers, I would like to ask that any minister vote be delivered to the presidency within two minutes of the vote, which has the color of the game and its name and name and its signature. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the law, I present the conclusion of an open vote on the financing of terrorism. ▪ Number of votes used: 254 [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Muhammad Bilal Macit The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with Konya MP Kerim Özkul and İzmir MP Ali Ashış and 12 MPs who are in the fourth place; Eskişehir MP Kazım Kurt; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyetist Movement Party Group Chair and İzmir MP Oktay Vural; Manisa MP Özgür Special; Kırşehir MP Abdullah Çalkan and 10 MPs's Law Proposal on Laws in Similar Causes. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the National Defence Commission and Foreign Commission Reports on the Approval of the Defence Industry Business Union Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kosovo. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with 384 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill shall be passed on to the articles of those who accept... those who refuse... (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 384 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION IN THE CONTROL OF THE COSOVA REPUBLIC IN THE ACTIVATION OF COMMUNITY OF TURKEY THE RULES OF THE BLOOD ABOUT THE ACCIDENT'S ACCIDENT The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Defence Industry Business Association Agreement between the Republic of Kosovo, which was signed in Ankara on October 27, 2011. There is no demand of word on Article 1. We don't have a friend who hacks into the system for questions and answers. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the conclusion of an open vote on the adoption of the Defence Industry Business Union Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo: ▪ Number of votes used: 229 [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Muhammad Bilal Macit The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations with Bill 240, ranked 6th. Commission? No. It's been postponed. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We begin the talks of Bill 49, which is ranked seven. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin the talks of Bill 174, which is in the 8th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Thursday (7/2/2013) by the Council of Counsellors. AK PARTY Group CHP Group The General Assembly, which has previously been decided to work on 8/2/2013, has been advised not to work on this date. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (February 12th 2013), to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with oral question motions and draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
