tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to the Bursa Millikeli Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu, who asked for a comment on the 5th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kosovo.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and your people, our beloved nation. As head of the Turkish-Kosovo Friendship Group, I congratulate you on the 5th anniversary of the independence of the friend and sister Republic of Kosovo. On 17 February 2008, the number of countries that recognized Kosovo, which declared independence, was 95. With the support of our country, we believe that we will soon pass the psychological threshold of 100. Again, our support for Kosovo's membership in international and regional organisations continues with determination. In this framework, the European Bank of Development and Development adopted Kosovo in November 2012 with the support of our country. The NATO Peace Corps (KFOR) and the EU Kosovo Mission (EULEX) serve as military, police and judges of our country. In addition, the TİKA and Yunus Emre Cultural Centre continue to engage in important activities. TİKA provides support for projects in many areas such as the protection of cultural heritage in Kosovo, education, health care, agriculture, training of police and bureaucrats, while Yunus Emre cultural centers serve in many areas from Turkish courses and pictures to music to literature. Dear lawmakers, between Kosovo and Turkey, there is a very special and powerful bond of brotherhood that takes its origin from our collective history. This bond is the driving force and dynamo of our social, cultural, commercial, economic cooperation. Both our Kosovo relatives and citizens of Kosovo, who live in our country, play a bridge to the development of relations between the two countries. This led to significant distances in trade, economic co-operation during the course of our joint history. The Turkish private sector has successful investments in Kosovo. The value of these investments reached 278m euros by the end of 2012. The modernisation of Pristina Airport, the Pristina-Tiran Grand Highway Project, other roads, mosques, stadium Vesair investments are some of them. Close relations between Turkey and Kosovo are strengthened by high-level visits between the two countries' statesmen. There is a close co-operation between the two countries' parliaments. In April 2012, Kosovo Parliament Speaker Jakup Krasnici arrived in our country and held a series of talks with our President, Prime Minister and Parliament Speaker. As you have seen from the press, the ministers of both countries are continuing their official visits, mutually speaking. In the past month, we visited Kosovo (Kosovo) with the delegation headed by our Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ. This time, between February 19th and February 23rd, we will host the delegation of the Friendship Group of Kosovo's party, Muferra Sik, and the delegation with him, in Turkey. My constituency, Bursa, is one of the most dense cities in the immigrant population. Our brothers from Kosovo, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Western Thrace and all Balkans are hardworking, productive, and entrepreneurial people who provide value for our city and our country. Our immigrant brothers, who are loyal to their homeland, flag, national, spiritual, and spiritual others, are now active in the development of our relations, saying hello to the Balkans, where we said goodbye to both civil society and individual efforts yesterday. From here, I salute them with respect and love. Finally, on the way to becoming a trusted partner of the international community -- in this framework -- to be a solid step towards integration with Euro and Euro-Atlantic institutions -- I declare that we will continue to support multicultural, democratic and prosperous Kosovo in all areas, wishing their independence to be eternal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Samuel MP Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, of course it's a little difficult to talk about nine years of investments in Kopeeli, in five minutes, it's hard to explain investments that haven't actually been made because they haven't been invested in five minutes. Now, I want to tell you all about it. For one thing, he is the 11th largest city in Turkey, the 11th largest city in Turkey, with a population of 1,634,000 people. The average tax collection in Turkey is $1,401 per person, and the tax collection in Alexandria is $22.038. So, in addition to tax collection, we're number 1 in Turkey. In 2012, the amount of public investments that he received was 79 percent. So there are 81 provinces in Turkey, the 79th share of public investments in the tax collection in 81 districts is the 1st and 22,000 euros per person. So he gives 12 and gets 1, and there's no way to solve problems with central investments. So, how does it work out? And that's when the Metropolitan City comes in, the city of Bigeli. Now, there are Balıkesir Engins, and they rejoice that we have become a great city. Is it really like this? After what I'm about to tell them, they'll see that it's not that happy. Because the Prime Minister sets an example for Turkey. Look at the model city. This city, which has about 1.6 trillion revenues, has a budget greater than 13 ministry budgets, and Turkey's most indebted municipality; 5.4 quadrillion liras, and it will not be paid. In a local newspaper...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0005par0030	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0004par0031	The municipality now has ITs ITs. What are the BITs? The city's participation. Now, to build dwellings for poor and small-income citizens, the city is building a municipality of residence under the name Kent Housing.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0005par0033	Please listen.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0004par0034	But don't believe what I'm saying, don't believe what I'm saying, the AKP people really do it to the dry ones, not to the poor. Where does he do it? In an area called urban transformation, they make 152 apartments in what we call the Cedit neighborhood, which view the sea as zero, and in the best part of the city, they get caught. A local newspaper writes a headline, "Woe be to you! From now on, Mayor Ibrahim Karaosmanoglu takes the reed in his hand. What's he supposed to do? The apartments they're building there are supposed to be built for small-income citizens. So what's he doing, Mayor? This is to defend these apartments, which have been issued to the press and given to city bureaucrats, to the rich people of the AKP, to AKP-based executives. ▪ Doesn't my ruler have the right? Of course he's right, he's right, like other people; he's got the right to draw, he's got the right to line up like other people. It's 08 a.m. They have the right to take all AKP members in the same way, rather than stand in line at 00 and say to the citizens at 8:15. Sure, what does the mayor say? It doesn't end with this.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0006par0035	When he works, he says.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0004par0036	That's right! Now, I'd like to tell you about another act of this Kent House. This is the City's House, which says that the AKP municipality will tear down the mosque and plant a dwelling to get rid of the debt. I'm going to read a paragraph from here: we asked the nation to vote for Karaosmanoglu and Prime Minister Erdogan during the election, from neighborhood to village, from village to village. These are all religious people, let's give them a chance. I apologize to everyone here, in your presence, who I've asked to vote for. I don't believe in their muslimism, a Muslim doesn't destroy mosques, he says. Who says that? He calls it the Association President, he calls it the Association President. My fellow lawmakers, the President is facing the press, and we're going to investigate them. He doesn't say. You know what he says?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0007par0039	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0004par0040	My dear young brother, listen. The president says: 'It grows and the caravan walks.' Who says that? He says, "The mayor of the city of Kopeeli," and the caravan says, "Let's go." That's a hell of a description. As the Prime Minister did, the mayor described his actions, saying, "It grows and the caravan walks." Again, what did the same President say?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0008par0043	Look at ISU, look at ISU...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0004par0044	Don't forget that ISU, I'll also tell you. Now, I won't take too long. I'd like to answer the president's words with the words of our Prophet. What did the President say? What does our prophet say? An hour of justice is better than a year of worship. I say, "May God reform you all." I give you all respect.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0009par0048	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0010par0052	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I have taken an off-the-book promise to address the problems of the milk producers in our country. On this occasion, I salute you all. Milk, the most useful food in the world, is the first food that humans have received since birth. Its nutritional value is one of God's greatest blessings to mankind, with its vitamins. While milk is such a useful and valuable food, unfortunately, we don't appreciate it, nor do we appreciate our milk maker. This drink that thousands of scientists can't make even if they come together, we can only get from cows, sheep, or a goat. I'm saying we can, but since the AKP's power has arrived, especially since our decorated Minister of Agriculture from France has begun to serve, this dairy manufacturer is moaning. It got to the point where the milk manufacturers stopped producing them, and they started cutting off and selling their cows that he had tied to $7,8,000. Unfortunately, our people are taking naps on their milk-losing cows 30 kilos a day. How could they not quit? 50 liras a bag of vows, 80 cents a pound, 90 cents a pound, and a gallon of milk that he worked so hard to get is only 70 cents a gallon. Come on, get out of here, if you can get out of this. Congressmans, when you sell 1 litre of raw milk in milk production, if you can buy 2.5 kilograms of cut bait, that means it can go on, otherwise it's not sustainable. In recent years, the increase in input costs, the failure of the product, unfortunately, has brought anyone who's been a dairy cattleman to the point of bankruptcy. Our farmers have become dependent on banks, loan sharks. The AKP government forgets one thing, and I've said it over and over again, and I've said from this stand: milk is a matter of meat in our country, and meat is a matter of milk. The problem with milk is not solved until it's solved, and our country is condemned to imported meat, living animals, imported sacrifice, and even imported hay, as it has been recently. We don't have veal without Ana, they call it. The future of animalism is this dairy cattleling. Although these are known, the dairy manufacturer is not supported enough, not worth the product. And what should our government do? In order for our farmers to continue this work, we, the National Movement Party, travel and listen to our people from village to village, saying: "We are fed up. We are out of strength, we are out of strength. We need to get rid of the debts of our farmers, who work as cattlemen and feeders, and their debt to the Agriculture Bank and to agricultural loan co-ops, and their debts to be restructured. All additional taxes, VAT and OTV must be removed immediately in products such as gas, medicine, bait, and input costs of animalism. Our milk cattlemen must be actively supported; if necessary, look, I repeat, animals must be given for free. Milk must be bought, guaranteed, with its value. For this, the milk institute must be restructured and widely operated and given to the market the value of milk produced by these institutions, and our people should be able to reach enough economic milk. The insurance, called TARSIM, should be easier and cheaper available to our milk cattlemen. A serious study of animal disease must be done, and dairy cows must be effectively protected in this regard. Unfortunately, last year, the school milk project that you screwed up should be fully implemented across the country; our children, who are guaranteed our future, should continue to be given quality, healthy, free of any deception, milk made by the Turkish farmer. Public spotlights on milk should be created, campaigns should be organised, and even studies should be done in our country to increase milk consumption above the world average. I salute the great nation and your delegation and the great Turkish nation who listens to us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0011par0059	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0012par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0011par0061	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0012par0064	For the record, I'd like to make a point. Yesterday, there was a provocative action against the four parliamentary members of the Parliament. Today, some initiatives are taking place in Samsun. The members of this Parliament are the parliamentarians of this republic and the parliamentarians of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0013par0066	They're the reaction to separatism.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0012par0067	Therefore, I think the four groups in this Parliament should take a common stance here today against this attack against Parliament. Otherwise, these attacks will continue all over Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0013par0069	Those reactions are also for the AKP people.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0014par0070	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. I'll make a promise to Mr. Bauken, and if the other members of the group want a word, I'll give it to them. Come in, Mr. Bauken, you have a request.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0015par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, on behalf of the People's Democratic Congress, there was a racial attack on our MPs, who would go to the Black Sea District and explain the new process. Parliamentary MPs have been pressured to threaten their lives. Unfortunately, we have not heard from Mr. Prime Minister, nor from the government officials, nor from the Home Secretary or other political party groups, any statement that condemns these incidents and that all MPs represent 75 million. We see it as a major inadequacy. We believe that we represent 75 million of an entire Turkish geography, and we think that it is the most important need for democracy to tell all our people about our projects, our work, political activities, wherever we go, using our democratic political rights. Again, I would like to invite both government officials and other party members of the group, to make a statement on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0016par0079	Thank you. The other members of the group don't want to say anything about it. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and on the basis of Articles 104 and 105, in order to determine consumer rights and protection measures due to the privatisation of electricity distribution services. [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 5) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 25) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 26) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 27) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] The activities related to electricity production, transmission and distribution are public service. Because these events are intended for public benefit, to meet the common need of society. However, with new tariffs imposed on the privatisation of electricity distribution services, the rights of consumers were virtually ignored and converted into public monopoly. With the privatisation of electricity distribution, our citizens are completely at the mercy of private companies. On the other hand, Article 172 of the Constitution has been charged with taking protective and enlightening measures for consumers and encouraging consumers' protective initiatives. Therefore, even though electricity distribution, which is essentially a public service, has been left entirely under free market conditions, the Constitution must protect the rights of citizens as required by the Law on the Protection of consumer number 4077. However, our citizens have been exposed to a pattern of exploitation, with prices and raises that are completely contrary to the rights of the Constitution. For example, the new electricity schedule, which has been implemented since New Year's, appears to contain a lot of regulations against consumers, but in the interest of distribution companies. Despite a 1.3 per cent drop in the cost of loss-smuggling energy per kilowatt hour, distribution service has increased by 20.7 per cent and retail service costs by 7.11 per cent, according to calculations by the Chamber of Electric Engineers. Thus, the sale, which should be done in favour of consumers, has been exported to distribution companies by expensive service costs. Regarding the cost of reading the meter, a full scandal has been signed. Because the decision made by the State has been determined that the collection of consumers per kilowatts is unfair, while the EPDK, which should have covered this injustice, has not eliminated the injustice done to consumers by the new tariff, but has increased by 150 per cent. The EPDK will receive.416 TL per meter reading from the new tariff, which is valid from January 1, 2012, from low tension to distribution line. Calculations, according to 2009 data, have found that over a year from the 26.6 million housing subscribers, which make up 25 per cent of Turkey's consumption, $40.7m has been transferred to distribution companies in the name of reading counters. With new tariffs, this amount will exceed $100 million a year. As the privatisation strategy has been under review since December 2007, when the increases in distribution service have been under way, 141.7 per cent of the rate of increase in the rate of service, 155.26 per cent in retail service. According to the 2011 tariff on the public's delivery service rate, 15.42 per cent has increased since January 2012, while the four-year increase in this pen has reached 123.5%. During the four-year period, consumer prices increased by 37.8 per cent. So inflation has been allowed to increase the collection of distribution companies at a level of 3,8-4.1. As a result, reductions in energy costs (net energy and loss/evacuation) are not reflected to consumers, but the distribution system is once again forgotten and created a large revenue portal for distribution companies, with an increase in the price of use and the cost of reading counters per subscriber. This is not acceptable in terms of public benefit, protection of social state and consumer rights. Therefore, there is a great importance for the public benefit, social state and consumer rights to open a parliamentary study of consumer rights in Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to determine protective measures due to the privatisation of electricity distribution services. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Hydroelectric plants (HES) have been increasing rapidly in almost every region of Turkey in recent years. The private sector is drawn to this area by the government buying electricity from these plants with a certain guarantee of purchase. In particular, companies that prefer the East Black Sea Region have started to build HES all over Turkey in recent years because of the proper structures of rivers and streams. As of late 2011, around 2,000 HES projects continue in Turkey. The amount of electricity that will be produced when all of the HES planned to be built throughout Turkey is produced will be enough to cover 5% of Turkey's electricity needs. In Turkey, however, there are 20 per cent missing in electricity. HES are slaughtering nature to produce as much as a quarter of the electricity in illegal electricity. In Malatya Darende, Hajis, Modül, Sofular and Central; Oba, Aksu, Tepehan, Mengel and Eaglehead in Puturge; Crime in Akçadan; Yoncan in Arguvan; Kozlik and Kınuk in Arabgir; Sancar, Kayabaşı and Kayalı in Doğanşehir; Tettu, Gemkörü and Şeklicek in Yeşyurt; HES in Sultansuyuuyuuyu; and HES in Hazlik and Kıçıçıçı; in Çağr. The projects were prepared by Çukukukkaya, Kaynarca, Assikonmaz, Sadıklı, Yazköy, Kuzik, Gürpınar HES, and General Directorate of Electrical Affairs. 3 HES activities in Malatya have been conducted, 17 HED applications have been applied for, 11 have been reported positive. 2 HES is currently in operation, while 4 HES has withdrawn its application. There are 10 HES in Malatya, including Sadıklı, Çakbahçe, Çukurkaya, Kaynarca, Asparamaz and Yazköy. However, Greenstone, Citadel, Citadel, Ilica and Goatsoreen and nearby villages have a life source for the Tohma Tea. REACTIONS in HES sites are increasing day by day. In Darende, 11,000 signatures have been collected against HES, which are intended to be made on Tohma Tea. When a CED report is issued to the Kayaarat position in Arabgir, which has a national parking area and is expected to be declared a SCE space, the Arabgir municipality and over 20 villages are calling for the cancellation of its HES permit. Sancar HES, Kadılı village and surrounding villages in Doğanşehir district, and the Sofular Hydroelectric Plant in Kuluncak district, which continues to be built, will victimize several villages, especially the villages of Sofular and Bicir. 90% of the world's dry apricot production is covered by Malatya. Apricots are an agricultural activity that has grown to over 250 million dollars in economic size for Malatya. With such weight in the country's promotion and economy, the transfer of streams to concrete pipes in Malatya and the deforestation of the region's ecosystems will reduce the production of all agricultural products, particularly apricots, and will negatively affect the country's economy and upset the economy of those living in the region completely. The criteria set by the Environmental Effect Evaluation (SED) Rule on the establishment of HES are against the Environmental Law and the Constitution. In order to take the power of the electricity production plant on the regulation stream as the basic criteria, a) CED is required, b) The selection criteria are implemented, and C) CED is not necessary; it has set three different levels of study and report. It is completely against the Environmental Law, the Constitution, and the basis of the regulation. Because every stream has a different debi. The implementation of the same environmental assessment criteria to a powered power plant on a low-intensity stream with a high-intensity stream is contrary to Articles 1 and 3, and Article 56 of the Constitution. In addition, "everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment, " states Article 56 of the Constitution. It is the duty of the state and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution." It's called. Despite the clear resolution in the Constitution, the state itself allows HES to commit constitutional crimes. THE most significant damage caused by HES Projects can be listed as follows: The drought will begin with the decline of subterranean and aboveground water. Agricultural production will be severely damaged. The trees will dry because they can't get enough water. Animalism will end, animal diversity will decrease. With agriculture and animalism reduced, employment will shrink, unemployment will increase. Poverty will increase, depending on the depriving of public livelihoods. There will be great risks to human and environmental health. Depending on the change of groundwaters, the risk of landslides and earthquakes will increase. As noted above, the opening of HES projects, particularly in Malatya province, will be under Parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the damage to the environment, human health and social life and to take the necessary measures. [[Malatya]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 13) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 16) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 17) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 26) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 29) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Darulaceze was founded in Istanbul in 1895, and on January 20, 2012, it was founded in 117. The founding anniversary will be celebrated. However, Darülaceze, one of Turkey's most radical institutions, has been commemorated in recent years with corruption, abuse of office and sectarian discrimination. In 2011, corruption and corruption were publicised at both Darulaceze and Darulaceze Co-operation Social Facilitys. In February 2011 and October, 38 people, including doctors and pharmacists, were taken into custody on the grounds that the older people who were in Darulacezet and wrote bone melting drugs on their health rationes were corrupting millions of dollars. The legal process of the incident is ongoing. In March 2011, the Malatian businessman Sabri Special donated 1,000 clothes to İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality Darulaceze Kayşdağı Social Facility, and a week later it was discovered that these products were sold at the counter in İstanbul Fatih. Three people have been detained and the legal process is ongoing. In June 2011, the agency's attorney from 2006-2010 filed a criminal complaint against two deputy governors, Darulaceze managers and two vice principals for "no embezzlement, no tenders, and no misdemeanor" charges. He also stated that the search must be made immediately before the evidence can be destroyed. Some of the charges filed by the agency's attorney along with 52 documents are as follows: 1) The victim's sales sites around Darülaceze are illegally rented and some of the cost is distributed to the staff, and the increased portion is given to the manager. For 2009 alone, the price is $275,000. 2) Although the institution does not need it, security services, furniture, money deposit boxes have been provided for the purpose of "selling" and " securing personal needs." In July 2009 alone, the purchase of one purchase was made into eight purchases and nine purchases from the same company without exceeding the $33,76 limit. 3) The savings in the canteen account were used to finance expenses such as cell phones, VCDs for the director of the institution, illegal travel and travel. Despite 52 documents, the prosecutor has not gone through any search or seizure path, but has requested the Ministry of Interior to investigate the allegations. On 19/9/2011, İstanbul 47 against this decision. The original Criminal Court has been contested. The court has issued a warrant to the Darulaceza on 28 September 2011, stating that the prosecution has not collected any evidence since June 1st, "the prosecutor is obliged to collect evidence in favor of the suspect and to preserve the evidence against him." All tender files, canteen documents, purchase receipts have been confiscated during the search over the past two years. The documents have been handed over to the Chief Inspectors of the Prime Minister at the order of the prosecutor, who refused to call. It is also remarkable that the documents of corruption of the institution, which once belonged to the Prime Minister, are handed over to inspectors under the Prime Minister's command. Investigators have never submitted an evaluation report on documents. There are also sectarian discriminations in the Darülacezet. It is said that some personnel have been removed from their jobs simply because they are Alevi, and that the butcher staff have been sent to another unit on the grounds that "Alevi butcher cut meat is not eaten," and that the deputy director of the Flame has said, "If I don't do something to you, I can't explain it to you," and the vice president has been suspended from the job of assistant manager. T.C. There is total confusion as to which ministry is the administrative institution. It leaves the institution unclaimed and unregistered. I'm the Darulaze. B. B.Legal studies continue to connect with him. Some of the corruption, however, is "I. " B. B.It happened at the Darulaceze Collage Social Facility. I'm the owner of the small house. B. B.'It will bring with it the risk of shutting down the institution soon after it's connected to it. We propose and propose that the Constitution be opened in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution to investigate alleged corruption, irregularity, abuse of office, religious discrimination. 20/1/2012 [[Malatya]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Balıkesir]] 7) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 8) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 19) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 26) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] 31) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek and its delegation run the country's rotating presidency, EUREKA 18. Its visit to Brussels to participate in the Inter- Parliamentary Conference is submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 33620 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament shall be held by the Association of Candidates Action in Brussels, Belgium on 21 February 2013, as part of the "Europe Union Energy Policy and The Effects on Candidate States," as well as by Industry, Trade, Energy and Of course Resources of Information and Technology Commission members, MP Mustafa Ozturk, Edirne MP Kemal Değirmerdereli, Gaziantep MP Mehmet Erdoğan and Kütah MP Alim Im Light, as part of the General Assembly of Turkey's Foreign Relations on 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes, those who accept... those who refuse. Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Finance Commission meeting, which will be held by the Council of the Council of Europe on 24 February 25 February 2013, will be held in Dublin, Ireland, and will be presented to the President of the Plan and Budget Commission, and the General Assembly on the participation of Karaman MP Lütfi Else, under the 9th Amendment clause of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/03/1990 and under the regulation of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes that those in favor...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0017par0337	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit01spe0016par0338	You asked for the number of decisions I was going to make. Those of you who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit02spe0016par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0016par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's resolution, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: Those who don't agree... Now there's enough to decide, it's accepted. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 19,2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 10 January 2013, the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish National Assembly in order to investigate the racist attacks against Kurdish citizens in various provinces, particularly Istanbul, was suggested by the Deputy Chair of the Bingöl Group İdris Bauken (2320 rows), to be read and held in the same date in the presentation of the talks on Tuesday (June 19/2/2013). On behalf of the group's proposal for Peace and Democracy, Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0018par0019	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as you know, there was an incident last night at Sinop. Similar events were displayed today in Samsun. Don't worry about it, there are three or five rogues, clowns everywhere, agitators who want to stir up the country, you might say they're always on line. I wish that was the case. And we're looking for peace...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0016par0020	Congressmans, please... There's a hum in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0018par0021	Sir, it's all right, no one's listening.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0019par0022	We're listening.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0018par0023	I'm telling the General Assembly, for the record. They'll learn something if they listen anyway, never mind.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0020par0024	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0018par0025	It's not a big deal, Mr. President. I wish the matter -- as I just said -- had been so simple, we could have made it very clear that in this period of time when Turkey's search for peace, its search for a solution, a historic intersection, a whole Middle East was reshaped, maps, political systems, economic systems, the design of the next century, someone could stir up the country, confuse it, bring peace and peace into its account. Thus, such events can be organised. Don't worry about it, don't make a big deal out of it, go ahead, laugh if you can. Well, how do we know it's not like that? We understand that this is not the case from the course of these events and from the behavior of the state, the government, the political parties, the NGOs, from the moment of events. I repeat, like those who staged the Sivas Madimak incident, some deep forces may have been provoked. So, what do you do? An unintelligent, sane state, government, local representatives of the government and state, the Governor, the Commissioner of the Police, would have taken precautions from the first minutes, the provocateurs, the instigators, the instigators, the instigators, and shut it down. And that's how it happened? No. Here, the images are very clear on TV. Cars are torn apart for minutes, these people aren't disbanded from there for almost hours, they're condoned by the thesis of this group. Where is the governor? The governor's on leave, he's escaped, he's gone. Where is the government? There is no government. Where is the state? The state is also on leave. Well, will the government be on leave? There's no governor. Doesn't the governor have a deputy governor, a police commissioner, people to fill in for the governor? It's all there. Dear friends, look, there's nothing here. These provocations are free of unity, integrity, resolution, brotherhood. Don't let anyone think that the Kurds will get hurt and apologize for such events, that there will be a clear and clear attitude about these matters, that some ruling lawmakers will be on TV, sir, what are these men doing there in my future? You're going to inner Anatolia, what are you doing here? They say, "What are you doing in the Mediterranean, the Aegean, the Marmara?" You're going to the Black Sea, what are you doing here? So, what's the BDP going to do? Dear friends, do you mean your married home, village? Or do you want to divide this country? Someone might say, "You go over there, you don't go over there. By what rules, by what circumstances, by which means, can he say according to the fool? Mr. Kilicdaroğlu has gone to Hakkari. Of course he will. Mr. Bahçeli has gone to Diyarbakır. Mr. Prime Minister went to Midyat, Mardin, Kızıltepe, where dozens of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) guerrillas were killed this weekend. What if these provocations, events, demonstrations were everywhere, where would this country go? Dear friends, there's nothing to come from here or from that logic. Like I said, I wish this was about a provocation from a couple of agitators. How do we know that? Twenty-four hours have passed, no statement from Mr. President; no serious action from our Prime Minister, the Speaker. I'm particularly curious to know where Mr. Speaker is. For a period of Turkey, I said, for four hours, this parliament opened up, closed down, before we even got outside the House, the skirts of the Speaker of Parliament were on fire -- as if the country was on fire, what did we say, what happened? And I still stand by that promise- he stood up and made a statement before I even got out of the House. Well, for 24 hours, Mr. Speaker, four of your MPs have been lynched, where are you? Dear friends, this road does not lead anywhere, and rather than the agitators there, the mayor of the People's Republican People's Republican Party (CHP), the governor of power, the governor of the state, and then the responsible here have to take their minds off it. What happens if he doesn't? It's a shame if it doesn't, it'll be a shame for everyone. This provocation, this provocation, it won't give anyone anything. Dear friends, last week in Diyarbakir, a 19-year-old boy, Şahin Öner, a senior in high school, a successful student, was killed under a panzer, and again, when the governor of Diyarbakır was nothing, I'm saying the autopsy report -- I'm saying the findings, I'm saying the hospital records -- he came out and said: "This young man had a bomb in his hand, he exploded while dropping it and died. Twenty-four hours later, all these reports came, as an autopsy report, the original aspir had passed over him, and all the ribs had been broken." I opened it to the governor, and I asked him -- he's a happy governor -- he talked for 15 minutes, like a machine gun, in the psychology of a criminal. Have you taken a single police officer into custody? Did you get an interview? No. Did you make a statement? No. Were you not afraid of God? You took the kid the Panzer ran over, you took him to the station yard, instead of taking him to the hospital, he died for half an hour. Are you a scarecrow there? There's no answer. Dear friends, these scandals cannot be covered. Today, there are perpetrators in Sinop, and in Diyarbakir, and there are also those who use the Panzer, who wait half an hour in the yard of the police station, who take their fingerprints while they're dying -- those scoundrels -- but if the state can't find them out, it's a much bigger disgrace if they cover them up. As I, Altan Tan, as I was going on a campaign with 10,000 people during the election, the prosecutor could take my picture and sue me. You took this march. But according to all these surveillance records, if the government can't do that, it's more than aiding, it's more than abetting, it's guilty of solicitation and covering crimes. Dear friends, we need an immediate response. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0021par0038	Thank you. Öznur Çukık, Malatya MP who wants to speak against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0022par0041	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Council's motion to investigate and investigate the impacts of the Peace and Democracy Party on women's physical, economic, political, and all kinds of violence on women's health and to investigate the necessary measures.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0023par0042	Misinformation, Congressman. You've made the wrong preparations, not our research proposal.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0024par0043	Group proposal, group suggestion.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0022par0044	I have made a commitment to the group proposal.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0023par0045	Go ahead, it's okay.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0022par0046	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Last week, they filed a research motion, a group proposal this week. If the goal is to prevent any violence against the woman, it's called group advice, it's called a research motion. I'd like to start by saying that we have a lot to say in any violent research proposals or group proposals given by the BDP. Dear lawmakers, I must first say that our power has made very important legal regulations in the past decade, and we know very clearly that violence against women is not prevented by law; we need social change and transformation in a very serious sense. The violence of the BDP lawmakers yesterday (August 11 a.m.) before we first mentioned what we were doing in the law. As our Prime Minister stated at the group meeting at 00, we are strongly condemned. We're against violence, against women, against children, in traffic, on the street, against all of them. But today, when the subject of our sentence is a woman, and the subject of the sentence is a woman, we all need to know that the rest is a theme, that politics is a theme. We've made very important legal arrangements. Looking back on what we've done, we've made arrangements in Article 10 of the Constitution, in 2004, on equality of men and women, equal rights of citizenship. We've made arrangements in Article 90, and we've established that international contracts are above national contracts, and in 2010 we've arranged for Article 10 of the Constitution, and we've said: "Man and woman's opportunities should be balanced, and there should be positive discrimination in the work to be done." So, dear lawmakers, do you remember what BDP Group BDP did in positive discrimination against the woman we did last week on the 10th article in 2010, who proposed this group? They didn't participate in the vote, they protested. I thought you were against violence against women. In our amendment to the Constitution, we showed that we were against it both in the House and when we took it to the referendum, our nation made it very clear that we were against it. We've made changes in the Civil Law, we've made changes in the Protection of Family 4320, we've made changes in the Penal Code; the increase in the number of women's guesthouses that we've made with the change we've made in the City Code is in your appreciation. We made changes in the Employment Law in 2003; we made arrangements on maternity leave, on milk permits, and on the rights of our women to retire, and in 2004, we published a Prime Minister's Generality, and we evened staff supply. With these, in 2009, we established the Equality Commission for Male Opportunity. So one of the subcommittee studies we did in this Commission was a subcommittee on preventing violence against women, and last year -- we completed this work in 2010 at the Women's Opportunity Equivalence Commission -- we signed the Istanbul Convention in İstanbul, for the first time in 2011 -- and the first person to sign this job in the world was Turkey, who passed it through parliament, and then again -- in our Parliament -- we are in violence against the women -- our Parliament, our Prime Minister, the President, the President, signed these signatures. These are just legal regulations. What do we say? We think there should be a very serious mental change. The phenomenon of violence emerges as a fact at every stage of history. Violence against women is a universal problem from past to future. Research is not unique to just one region, but it is not unique to Turkey. All over the world, violence, love, jealousy, passion, decency, or tradition can be excused. Sadly, violence or ritual killings are not only unique to Eastern civilisations, but also the existence of events referred to in the West as "treasure killings." So many women have been killed by their wives and relatives all over the world, unfortunately, more women have died in battle and hunger. However, violence in other countries does not eliminate our responsibility for violence within ourselves, in our own country. Of course, the fact that violence exists all over the world in different dimensions does not justify the violence of our own country. Because the values we depend on require that there be no tolerance for violence in our own country. Two words that shouldn't even come together are family and violence. I repeat: "Family" and "violence" are two words that should not come together. However, studies in Turkey -- unfortunately 40 per cent -- show that about one of the two women has been subjected to violence, and even more painfully, one of every 10 pregnant women has been subjected to violence. In the end, domestic violence is, of course, unrelated to public violence. The rise in violence in society, the violent resolution of people's problems, increasing domestic violence. Where women are most secure, their own homes, their own households, and their own wives, their wives, their wives, their friends, who they most expect love and respect. What we have to remember, unfortunately, is that their violence has done far more damage to their hands. Studies show that 24 per cent of women were injured by domestic violence, and that leads to serious physical, psychological disorders. Let's not forget that violence against a woman is not a single act but a form of behavior, and studies show that it is not a single act, and that violence continues at certain intervals. On March 8, 2012, we adopted the law on protection of the family and preventing violence against women by making the latest amendments. With this law, every woman and family member has been taken under state protection against violence. Not just criminal sanctions, but preventive and protective measures have been taken, and our government has shown very clear determination in its work. The complex structure of violence brings with it a long-term struggle and the state policy of a stable EC PARTY. In the end, gender-based violence, unfortunately -- I'm very sorry to say -- is the violence that a bunch of psychopathic men use against women, and unfortunately, it's a learned code. It's up to us to change this code, to tell the whole community that violence is not the answer, and we need to show that violence within the house is as much a social sanction as it is legal, and we need to stand together, with his woman, with his man, with him. After all, my Lord has made us, the caliphs of the earth, and in his scriptures, he did not make the distinction of sex. We are the people of a Prophet who was brought up when the daughters were buried alive, and the women were of no value, and he did not touch her or her child once. When a woman came to him with a broken arm, she sent him to her family, who knows what she did and deserved it. She didn't even ask him why he had beaten her. These are all important examples for us. Our prophet's attitude toward violence, which is not tolerated in any way, should be known to all, and he says: "God has more power over you than he has over your slave. " It is clear that the strong should never, ever commit violence to the weak. Sadly, though, when people do not abuse their favorite friend, they can inflict violence on his home, his wife, his wife, his lifepan. It's just, and it's just that to eliminate violence that shouldn't be inflicted on a woman... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is the most important sign of us all fighting together. On this occasion, once again, I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0025par0068	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0026par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like our friends who submitted this motion to voice that attack yesterday at Silivri, that illegal pressure, that illegal understanding, because the attack, wherever it is, is against the law and humanity, no matter where it is and where it is at its time. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out that the Justice and Development Party's lack of seriousness towards the BDP's group proposal, as well as the lack of seriousness, because the motion is two different issues. It seems either the Justice and Development Party doesn't want to get into this with a guilty conscience or they don't have anything to say, they want to stay out of it. Dear MPs, let us imagine for a moment that a brother of Haqqari went to a coastal town in Shugla, where he went for a walk in a deserted forest that saw the sea and smelled of pine. As we walk through that desolate forest of our fellow Haqkarili, his mother will have no doubts, nor will her husband worry that anything will happen to her. Because that's what country is like, dear friends. Now, let's imagine the opposite, that an Izmirian citizen -- rather -- wants to travel the mountains in the southeast -- and imagine his mother, his sister, his wife, his companion -- I miss the mountains in the southeast, and I want to see the plateaus there, and I want you to know that I'm leaving. When you say to him, go bye-bye, go good-bye. You can't think he'll say good-bye to his mother or his wife.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0027par0074	She'll say goodbye.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0026par0075	But, be careful, don't risk your life, my son. He'll have something to say. Well, we all have to think about the meaning of this asymmetry because it's not just the land we were born in. It's the name of the place where we'll travel, where we'll live, when we think of it, without any security concerns or constraints. Here, the State, the Justice and Development Party, which governs the state today, has a great role in its government. If a part of this country today has become unreachable, and some of it has a period of sovereignty in this country, then it is a failure. I don't want anyone to get the wrong idea about the security I'm using here, I don't mean the lack of conscience to put the safety in front of the Panzers or the safety of the Panzers that crush those innocent children; I mean the sense of security, the sense of security that is equal to freedom, because we have to remember that there's no freedom where there's no safety. In that sense, the Justice and Development Party is incapable of making our land a homeland. Dear MPs, I ask you to remember that on September 28, 2011, a young chemist from Izmir was shot in the back and killed. His name was Engin Yıldırım. He was 31 years old. Four months ago, the teacher's wife, Seval Yıldırım, who had given birth, visited and helped her settle down. These young people were working to build a life and a future between Izmir and Yüksekova. If they could do that, if this young man hadn't been shot in the back and killed, there would have been strong citizenship between the Izmirians and the Highovars. The road between his house and his house in Buca is twenty minutes after the funeral ceremony of Engin Nahin, who was shot in the back. When a citizen of Highova goes on this 20-minute journey and starts walking on that road, when he meets the people there, he meets them with a greeting, not a bullet, but a friendly greeting. That's citizenship, dear friends, that's non-racial understanding. It's a great force that binds us together. Citizenship takes us above our ethnic identity, our sect, the Republican People's Party, the AKP, the BDP, the MHP, or any other party, and it revives the expression that Ataturk has formulated. Dear MPs, a Manisa citizen should not only go to the southeast to serve, nor should he go to Mardin to murder the law as the Prime Minister did, rather than to bring about the concept of lawful and unlawful electricity. Our brother-in-law of Manisa must go to Mardin to ask for a girl, to meet his son-in-law's family or his son-in-law's family, to see the beauty of Mardin, to add a lifetime to his life, and when he returns to Manisa, he must hum the song Mardine as if it were an Aegean song. What I'm trying to say is that citizenship doesn't just represent our people's connection to the state, it's actually the relationship between people. Dear lawmakers, due to the divisive politics of the Justice and Development Party, our young people have begun to reduce themselves to ethnic and religious identities. For this reason, I often view this problem, often referred to as the Kurdish problem, as the problem of maintaining the bonds of brotherhood and love among our citizens, who are part of the same homeland. It's up to us politicians to prepare the conditions for strengthening these bonds and to strengthen those bonds that weaken. We must eliminate misunderstandings, prejudices, deliberate diversions, ignorance and tribal fanaticism. Dear lawmakers, this power must now question itself because instead of victimizing people for their ethnic and religious beliefs, it is the job of a politician to eliminate this victim if people have ethnic and religious causes. Honourable MPs gave a speech in Mardin, where they said they had put all sorts of nationalism under their feet. In fact, this talk, really, is a conversation that needs to be shown to young people in the future, a conversation that should be told as a joke, a conversation that contradicts itself. Speaking of assimilation in one paragraph, the prime minister mentioned a thousand years of brotherhood in the other paragraph. Now, I'm asking the Prime Minister: was the assimilation effort right, or were those sentences you mentioned about a thousand years of brotherhood true? Honestly, nothing this Prime Minister does surprises me anymore. In fact, this Prime Minister, who denies what he used to say earlier this afternoon, has now finally denied what he said at the beginning of the same television show. On the same television programme, he said, "I don't want to be president." At the end of that programme, he announced to the Turkish nation that he has a presidential request. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, that's what arrogance is all about. It's a form of drunkenness. It upsets the balance, corrupts the balance of the tongue, distorts the mind. And the Prime Minister is in a heavy intoxication of hubris, making comparisons that are unthinkable. The founder is trying to use nationalism to equalise Ataturk nationalism with racism and to spend it in a pen.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0028par0084	It has nothing to do with that.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0026par0085	In his drunken daring, he dynamites the foundations of his hometown. Moreover, he does not do so for the sake of great ideals; he often does it for financial gain or for power collection and for bringing in the presidential system. But remember, this House has no constitutional authority to change regimes. I'm afraid he's going to have to leave this drunk table, Mr. Prime Minister. He'll be crushed by the Ataturk nationalism he thinks he crushed under his feet. As a physician, dear friends, I am saying that the Prime Minister needs a cure for arrogance in order to get rid of this severe drunkenness. Roman Senator Cato would finish his every speech in Kartaca, and I would finish every speech from now on, saying, "Happy Turk!" I pay my respects, my friends.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0029par0090	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Tülay Saşoğlu, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0030par0092	Ramadan Can...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0029par0093	Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, while the group proposals are being brought up, the Republican People's Party, the National Party of Action and the Peace and Democracy Party are bringing up their earlier research proposals, their ancient research proposals as a group proposal. Something like that happened today. Here's the thing: as the group proposal was brought up, the Chief Editor of the Peace and Democracy Party met with our Editor-in-Chief and expressed the group proposal for violence against her, the motion for research.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0032par0097	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0098	However, since we can't form an alliance when we join the Council of Counsellors, you can bring it up as a group proposal, according to Article 19 of the Constitution, Civil Code. When the alliance is not achieved and the meeting does not take place, the group's proposal is unclear. Here, we especially urge opposition party representatives and group members to pay attention to this issue from now on.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0033par0099	You watch out!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0032par0100	There's a council meeting downstairs. Do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0101	Mr. President, according to the 10th article of the Constitution, everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion, sect and so on. We are representatives of a party that declares and guarantees that every nation in our country is equal in the eyes of the law. This party has brought an exception to equality at the point of positive discrimination, at the September 12, 2010 referendum, to our women, to our children, to our martyrs and relatives, at the point of positive discrimination; everyone else is equal. Of course, there are isolated events, there may be problems with applications. Of course, we don't approve of the incidents of lawmakers representing the Party of Peace and Democracy that have been subjected to in Sinopίta and Istanbul. However, on the other hand, we are a party that knows that the right to demonstration and march within the framework of the law and the Constitution is a right -- unregistered -- and suggests that this is guaranteed. If there is an illegal activity here, if there is an illegal activity, the administration, the police, the governor's office and the prosecution will do so in the sense of judgment.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0032par0103	You're not watching TV; there's no illegal lynching. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0104	Everyone has the right to complain about it. We also believe that everyone in the legal state should be respected for showing and walking, a balance between the two should be established. On the other hand...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0034par0107	What do you mean, what do you mean, say it properly, and we'll know it. You think they did good?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0035par0108	You think they did good?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0109	They didn't do well, of course.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0035par0110	Then why are you defending me?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0111	We're not saying they're doing well, but we're expressing our opinion at the point where the balance here needs to be maintained.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0036par0112	Where's the balance?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0035par0113	No balance, no balance!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0031par0114	Of course, it's not possible for us to accept the movement that lawmakers of the Peace and Democracy Party have been exposed to, but what we're trying to say is that there should be a balance here. Of course, we have to respect that, if there are demonstrations and march in accordance with the law and the constitution. If this demonstration and the march are bringing about someone's rights, then both the police and the governor's office and the prosecutor's office will step in, they will. On the other hand, as our Prime Minister said at the group meeting today, we also said that we are opposed to all kinds of ethnic nationalism, religious nationalism, and that we will even put them under our feet. We perceive nationalism at the point of serving the people of this country without distinction, at the point of raising the level of prosperity. The nationalism perception of those who remain attached to the IMF, those who empty the banks, is purely a sense of sweet nationalism. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say that we do not accept the BDP group proposal, that it is necessary for us to go on the agenda, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0037par0118	Thank you. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 19/02/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the 417 rows distributed, the agenda will be placed in the third order of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the order of other tasks will be determined according to this; Besides weekdays, 22nd and 23rd February 2013, Fridays and Saturdays are 14 o'clock. The meeting at 00 and the discussion of the work involved in the agenda of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Tuesday, February 19, 2013, the merger of verbal questions was not discussed until the completion of the talks of Bill 417, Until the meeting of Wednesday, February 20, 2013, until the meeting of the 193rd Amendment, Until the meeting of Thursday, February 21, 2013, until the meeting of the 367th Bill of Laws, Until Friday (February 22nd 2013) the meeting of the 345th Bill of Law was completed, On Saturday, February 23, 2013, until the meeting of the talks on the 57th Bill of the Law was completed; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 417, it is considered the basic law of 417, and its divisions in the accompanying form; He was advised to continue his work. THE PRESIDENT PRODUCTION OF CAMU PRIVATE PRODUCTION, REPECTION, AND ACTIVITY IN THE SECTIONS OF BLOOD AND BLOOD [[1/722]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDES PART OF THE SCENE 1. CHAPTER 1 - 14th Articles 14 2. CHAPTER 15 - 27 (Temporary 1st, including 1st article) 14
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0149	Mr. President, sir, AKP's proposal changes the Civil Code completely. See, the 98th article of our Civil Charter states that questions are discussed about two days a week and at least an hour.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0037par0150	Mr. Young, there's a Republican People's Party spokesman on the group's proposal, which speaks for these thoughts, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0151	Sir, I'm starting an argument about the procedure.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0037par0152	What are you arguing about?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0153	So, part one of this proposal is not supposed to be processed. I mean, the part about non-interviewing questions on Tuesdays is the Civil Code change. Because so far, there are no questions asked during the AKP two days a week. If you put this in motion, sir, I'd like to speak to you about your position, because the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has never been able to change the practice of changing the Civil Code with the group's recommendations.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0037par0154	Mr. Young, today's practice is not a first-time procedure, it's been established, it's already been this way...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0155	Sir, but look, the Civil Code no longer applies, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0037par0156	We've had it before, we'll take samples.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0157	Sir, look, he's removing the Civil Code from the process. According to Article 98, the exception is...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0037par0158	I get it, but in the past, even when you're acting president, there are these applications, we make examples of them.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0159	When we were acting presidents, there were no such suggestions, but the exception can come once a week...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0039par0160	He comes once a week, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0038par0161	...but we make laws all the time during the work. There are no questions on Wednesdays in particular, and there have been no meetings on Tuesdays for two weeks. In my opinion, every week, in any case, according to Article 98, questions must be asked two days a week. Every question hour is two hours, not an hour, but there's no question here, no inspection, no law. How will Turkey's Grand National Assembly be supervised? So, as Speaker, if you're implementing this, I'd like a word on your attitude.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0040par0163	Here, two minutes, I promise. Do you have any other demands?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0041par0165	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0040par0166	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0042par0170	Mr. President, valued MPs, one of the most important duties of Parliament is control. He doesn't serve as a parliament that doesn't do inspection duties. The law is already here, and here it goes, as the basic law, uncontacted. But with the AKP's power, Turkey has become, more or less, a country that has been completely looted with its economy. Look, you take a TOKI, there are hundreds of abuses, you take an electrical distribution company, there are enormous abuses. None of the questions we give are answered. Guys, here we are, last year's electricity management made 14.5 percent of the price of electricity retail. Its monetary value is 3 quadrillion 200 trillion liras. Normally, three quadrillion and 200 trillion liras were supposed to go to the consumer, but three quadrillion and 200 trillion liras were left on 21 distributors in this time of power. Is that a thing? In 2010, it also increased the price of electricity by 32 per cent to consumer prices. Now, here, we're talking about this with questions. Look, according to Article 98 of the Civil Code, two days a week and one hour every day, the question needs to be answered, but unfortunately the AKP never asks the questions...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0043par0174	Especially this president, he doesn't make me ask!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0042par0175	...and then there's the rest of the audit stuff. Because he doesn't have a face, and they always lie about what he's going to say to the public. But the Speaker shouldn't allow it either. So, these questions -- I mean, that's why this group proposal is against the Civil Code, and actually, the Civil Code has been eliminated, so... Although what are we going to say in two minutes, Mr. President, I mean, if you could just give us a normal time, we could discuss it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0044par0179	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Young wanted a word against you. Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0045par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. He has made a pledge in favor of your attitude, and I salute the high council. Of course, I don't know where this argument came from. It's a case that the House has implemented since the past...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0046par0186	No rules, read the Civil Code!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0045par0187	...for some reason, he's turned a procedure into a discussion of procedure in accordance with the Civil Code, and he's made a promise against it. You know, he needs to talk, so he's gonna talk somehow. We need an excuse to talk. That's almost an excuse. Dear friends, here...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0046par0189	Why don't you answer that?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0045par0190	...needs to be discussed, audits are being conducted in exactly the same manner as today, in accordance with the Constitution, the Civil Code and regulations. So far, we've been doing the same thing in the past. There's been a motion from the Council of Counsellors today. The Council of Counsellors made the request together with both the AK PARTY Group and the BDP Group, but since it cannot be assembled, again, according to our Civil Charter, groups can bring the group proposal according to Article 19 of the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0046par0191	Why did they write the 98th article there?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0045par0192	After bringing the group's proposal, it is accepted by the General Assembly, such as the Council's recommendation. And that's what we've been doing so far, plus a lot of the recommendations we've shared with the Council of Counsellors. This was done in the past, in your time, before you, and after you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0046par0193	It wasn't in the past. No power is as strong as you are...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0045par0194	When you're making a promise, it can happen once a week. You say, "It can happen once a week," and we do it once a week. It's not a different application, it's an ongoing application, it's the same application. Therefore, the position of the Presidential Court states that I am in favor of you all.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0047par0196	Thank you. There's no further demands. Yes, there's been no change in my attitude as a result of the talks, because it's become a reality. Now, Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0048par0204	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. I salute you all, have a good week, have a good day at work. This group includes this week's working days and hours and the bill we're meeting this week. To sum it up, it was read on the Court, but we suggested that the Ministry of Health, 417 rows this week, with the Public Special Co-operation Model, build, renovate, and service be brought to the front of the agenda. Again, we recommend that the General Assembly meet on Fridays and Saturdays outside of their weekly workdays, and that in these combinations, the law bill and proposals and other jobs from the Commissions be discussed. Today, we propose that we work until the completion of the talks of Bill 417. Until the completion of business and negotiations, until the completion of the 367th Bill of Law and negotiations, until Friday's 345th Bill of Legislatures, and on Saturday until the completion of talks until the completion of the 345th Bill of Legislature, and on Saturday until the meeting of the 57th Bill of Law. Bills 193, 367, 345 and 57 include international contracts. Again, we propose that the Law Bill 417 which we discussed and proposed this week be considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. And the combinations we mentioned upstairs, it's 24 a.m. We're willing to continue our work until the completion of the daily schedules, in case the daily programs are not completed at 00, and we recommend it. On behalf of our group, the group wishes you to vote in favor of our proposal, and I wish you all good work.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0049par0213	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Hülya Güven, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0050par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding AKP's group proposal, and I salute the Grand Assembly. Congressmans, we were at Silivri yesterday, with our citizens who came to watch the Ergenekon trial. The carabinieri didn't want to take the MPs first, but then they did. We don't take it at first. After saying that, they open the first security door, they take our citizens in, and then they close the door, causing pressure water, pepper spray on them. Many of our citizens have moved to hospitals, including those with batons in their faces. What's going on? Let these things be done. It is impossible to understand what anger is in those who give orders. There, our women, wounded and wounded, our compatriots, who had no idea what had happened, were in great shock. They asked, "Did they open the doors to beat us up? " Did they really open the gates and besiege our citizens, and face the citizens, the gendarmes, and the police? Again, we see that such a system is applied to health. First of all, the city hospitals bill, which concerns thousands of health workers, was brought to Parliament by kidnapping, without discussion in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, which is the relevant commission. If there had been a bill prepared for the good of our citizens, would it have been taken from all directions and taken to Parliament with the majority of the fingers? Besides, did you know that the Plan and Budget Commission, which passed by quickly, did not have a report? What was discussed, what was discussed? The records are either hidden or never kept. It's all starting to go away one by one. How can you believe that a government thinks of its citizens? With this bill, the order of privatisation has come to state hospitals. First, public hospitals were formed, all health workers were subcontracted. Later, the public-special partnership model and all health care services are transferred to private companies. From now on, we're going to experience the complete privatisation of health with this bill of law. So, instead of facilitating public and planned access to health care throughout the city as AKP, you also close existing hospitals instead of facilitating older, disabled and sick transportation from every district, every district, every district. You're giving it to a company to build a big city hospital across town. Then he built the hospital, saying, "You're paying rent and you're paying rent and you're paying at least six times the cost." How many years? Twenty-five years now, maybe forty-nine years. So the state can't build hospitals. Let private companies build hospitals, let them run them, let them make a profit, and let us pay rent on them. Is it over? No. You're giving these companies the abandoned old hospital buildings again so the mall can build them. Today, our citizens are seeking to build a state hospital in the counties to reach the counties because the population is high, while campaigning, you're in a major hospital effort with 2,000 or 3,000 beds on one side of the city. How do we reach this hospital in an emergency, from other counties, towns, day and night, old, disabled citizens? How much will they pay for the taxi? Although, Mr. Prime Minister has recently made a statement that the disabled will benefit from city buses for free, trains for discount. They gave the Prime Minister false information again. So far, the disabled have already taken advantage of buses for free and trains for discount. Why do you say it like it's a new discount that's already in practice? Again, did you know that in Law 2022 today, this is actually the clause that needs to be corrected, which cuts the salary of our 18-year-old disabled youth? Besides, until the law comes out, if they took this pension, that money's wanted back. Many of our disabled young people today are in a difficult situation with their family. Why are you cutting the pensions of disabled people who are already having trouble getting by because they're 18 years old? Shouldn't they keep their eyes open, not see, not make demands by shutting down disabled people and their mothers? Our Prime Minister made another point the other day, a case of violence against the woman, you remember. The advice given to our women who have seen violence in Mardin is: "If a man commits violence, you must also resist." I mean, this government no longer has a judge, prosecutor, police, and gendarmes who will save this woman. You take care of yourself. It's called our women. Congressmans, think of a family, a man beats his wife, maybe he threatens her with a knife, and she takes the Prime Minister's advice that she'll go to the police or look for a way to go to the shelter, and she takes something in her hand and resists, and six children watching them... can you imagine the view? Can these children, this family, live their normal lives now? Can these kids start a normal family? Now that they have brought law proposals to parliament without public opinion, since they are now offered discounts to the disabled as new, do not go to the police, apply them to the violent. We understand that the AKP cannot rule the country. As for our elders, the Law number 2022 is given to the elderly as much as our Prime Minister's monthly tip, only if the elderly have no one to take care of it. If there's anyone who's supposed to take care of it for minimum wage, they don't get that tip on a monthly basis. No one knows the criteria for the income test, depending on the enforcement unit or the individual, and it's not being done fairly. I wonder, what do the old people, the disabled, eat, drink, and wear, who don't get their monthly allowances even though they deserve it? I wonder if they can go to the movies once a month or go for a ride. How do they pay for their contribution to medicine and treatment? What are they going to do after the hospitals are privatized? Health is now privatised step by step, first the clinics have been removed, and now it's time for hospitals. Violence is all over our country, and the measures against it, the measures that have been taken, there are almost no measures at all, as if we've all been left on our own. Is it a request for us and all citizens to be armed? Is that how we're going to protect ourselves now? I suppose our government is considering the answers to these questions. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0051par0231	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked for a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0052par0234	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favor of our party's group proposal. With the group's recommendation, we're setting up our schedules this week and what we're going to be working on. In his speech, the speaker added a few sentences, such as "the disabled do not get paid, " or pay the disabled. I'd like to answer him on this occasion. We'd like to know which disabled person can't get a salary, so who's not paid what? The disabled have never been edited as much as the arrangements made during our term. For the first time, it was the AK PARTY that gave the disabled human dignity, human dignity. Another issue is that the Prime Minister has never had such an explanation, saying, "Do violence to the violent one." What he's trying to say is, let those who are involved in violence look for it on the basis of the law, and he said, "Please don't accept it." I'm just saying, let's face it, let's face it, this is a misunderstanding. I wish you all the best, sir, for this week's work, for the laws we're going to make, for everyone, for our nation, for all humanity.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0053par0240	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP, who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0054par0243	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, let me put it this way: I have just entered politics, and I have just arrived in Parliament. What caught my attention and what I saw in the assembly was that there was a certain Civil Code of Parliament. This charter is the law of the House, and it's never broken. But then I found out that there are some clauses in the House's charter. In fact, it's filled with materials that prevent the law from being enforced, which can pull it in any direction you want, and if you have the power, if you have the political power, you can ignore the code and put it on the agenda. Oh, you might think that's a fundamental point of democracy, but what's odd is that we often see the code of law being broken when it's not the basis of democracy. For example, the government has to bring its decrees to the House under the law, but it does not bring them to the House. It's not based on what reason or what, who doesn't want it to come, what happens when it comes, it's not thought about. In addition, when it suits you, you can immediately make a decision, without the support of the groups, without agreeing with them, to set the agenda in any way you want, and that brings up a code that is directly back to the one-party system. So, frankly, I've been disputing these attitudes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, these attitudes of politics. Dear lawmakers, democracy, when we call it democracy, is actually the movement of the people's will to the House. This is not just a numerical majority. The word "national will" - the word "national" - is of great importance here - is to act by bearing the values of that nation. In fact, what's interesting is that there's been a number of important agendas in the last few days - nationalism and sentences that say that values like this are being taken underfoot. In fact, national will is nationalism, so it's a sense of decency. If you don't count yourself as that nation, if you don't feel it, it means you're seeing yourself from a different nation, and you're doing that nation's racism, and you're going into ethnic nationalism. Thus, for 30 years, for 30 years, people who have been converted to ethnic nationalism today have been a constant force that has destroyed the national values of the nation. Consider: Five days earlier, in Istanbul, on February 15th, a bus was burned. There were a lot of civilians in there, and people barely saved their own lives. Tell me, why didn't those who criticized Sinop take note of this incident that took place in Istanbul? First, all such incidents -- if they are citizens of the Republic of Turkey -- should be credible within the scope of this criticism.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0055par0248	We're already critical, there's no problem, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0054par0249	Otherwise, it's all about people and society. Now, if you ignore 86 per cent of the requests of only 6.5 per cent to fulfill their wishes, if you oppose their values, of course you must face certain events. What matters here is the unity and unity of society. Besides, nationalism doesn't mean a certain race of people, when we call it nationalism. Ethnic nationalism and racism must be differentiated from nationalism. Because nationalism means having national values, and it means that we can embrace everyone, and it means asking for unity and unity of the country. Therefore, if you object to the people who embrace them because of their feelings, then you must remove the word "National Ministry of Education" (National Ministry of Defence), and you must remove the word "National Defence" (National Ministry). Then you create a society that is cosmopolitan, which, in fact, can't be united, which creates a very dangerous situation for the future of that country. Dear lawmakers, most of the time they are put on this stand and expressed different things. For example, I would like to make a specific point: there are decisions that are called the Constitution of 1921 but have been made only within the framework of a number of proposals in this Constitution called the 1921 Constitution. It was mentioned on this bench the other day, so I'd like to bring it to your attention here. The 11th article of this article says that the area of the province cares about its spiritual personality and its importance. ▪ Now it is often focused on this word and it is established in 1921, so the continuation of this rule must be put into this constitution today. But what you see here is that, when you read the following sentences and understand them -- especially if you understand -- is that I say the word -- it's not like that. He then says that he cares about foreign and internal politics, evil and military, the intellectual economic monolith of the government and the public monolith of the government, not only the province, but also the province, the province, the province, the province, the province, the province, which will be given over by the council of the great nation, but the inventor of the host, Medaris, Maarif, the medical, the economist, agriculture, the ministry, the ministry, and the administration, the administration of the government, and the administration of the council. Now, if you understand the expression here, what it means is that the provinces will be carried out in accordance with this clause, including tax, domestic and foreign policy, sherry, religious work, military and judicial work, international economic issues, including issues involving more than one province, the foundation, education, health, health, economic situation, agriculture, innovation, social assistance -- see, I draw your attention to this -- will be carried out in the legislatures under the laws of the Grand National Assembly. So, the laws will be passed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and run by the provinces, as they are today. So the provinces have been given a corporate personality. It's not a duty. The mayorate has a very different meaning. So, in serious matters like this, if you use false statements to confuse you, there's no way you don't get the benefit of society. If you say the right things, you will also provide solidarity, peace, and peace within the community. Dear lawmakers, this country has had a great war since 1914, and has been through the First World War. The land of the country is occupied. The occupied land was liberated from the enemy by a major national struggle, and the Republic was established in 1923, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was formed. It was created in 1920, but became a state in 1923. Now, if you attempt to hand over the national values of the people who fought that date, or, in spite of the people who were killed in that struggle, to the people who somehow took a weapon to break the unity and unity of the country, to the people who were in the mountains, then of course, you will get the reaction of society, and you will get the reaction of society. Therefore, you need to make serious assessments of such matters, and you have to make every step you make right. So, from this point of view, the Turkish Parliament must act on the will of the nation representing itself, its national values, and if we are directing the future of this country, and we are making history of it, there will be our signatures under the wrong date tomorrow, your signatures, and history will never forgive you, because Ataturk has a very beautiful saying: "The history is ruthless for the reckless." My deepest regards to all of you. I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0056par0257	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. There is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I will read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number-one Law Proposal (2/518) has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission since your presidency was transferred to the commission. Under Article 37 of the Turkish National Assembly, I demand and demand that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. 12/06/2012 Offered by Hope Oran, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0057par0271	Mr. President, I salute the High Council. Unfortunately, there are very sad events happening in our country, and yesterday in Silivri, then in Sinop, today in Samsun... in this environment, of course, on a day of these problems, I'm offering you how meaningful the European Union is. But when you look at the result, the rules in the European Union, the values in the European Union, and the freedom in Turkey today, human rights, basic rights and freedoms, law, justice, are essentially intertwined! In particular, yesterday's Silivri, especially, again, the government on Sinop and Samsun, I invite the Home Secretary to deal with these issues more seriously, more delicately, and I come to the agenda of the European Union. Our relations with the European Union, when you look at it, are about half a century old. 20 prime ministers, 30 governments have aged this process and it's become a state policy. Many ruling European Unions have dropped significant notes in history at various times. Especially between 1999 and 2005, with the support of the Turkish people, reforms were made, and a process began in 2005. In the process that began in 2005, a new chapter opened for full membership, and the government made various commitments and the process of full membership began. It's been seven and a half years since then, and when you look at it, we've only opened one chapter that we need to shut down from 33 chapters, and we've been able to shut it down. So if you go with this performance, when I look at this seven and a half years, I see that at the point of closing other chapters, we need exactly one hundred and ninety-eight years, so at this rate, at this rate, if we go with this logic, we're going to open and close these chapters in about 2211, and we're going to complete the full membership negotiation. Now, we need to sit down and think about this, so obviously it doesn't mean much that you're going like this. In the process so far, the government has generally made a decision on its own, not so much as a common mind, not so much as to work on it, and in the process, over the course of this seven and a half years, at times, it's stumbled into the EU, at times it's praised the EU. At times, the government has complained about the European Union, and at times its own fault, addressed the main opposition, but the point we've come up with is this, and when you look at it, when it's positive, the reports have applauded when the reports are negative. In fact, there are lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party who have thrown away their latest progress report, and we've left that aside, who have prepared their own reports and graded themselves. Now, I'm putting it all aside. Now, last year, we submitted a research proposal, and we said, "This is a state policy, let's all take this job together." As the main opposition, let's continue here, let's give you a hand, let's give you a hand, let's make this process right and let's conclude it. Our decision, our proposal we made, has been denied. Then, we made a new offer, an offer that's coming up right now. The bottom line of this proposal is that the European Union Compliance Commission is a subcommittee. Let's make it a residency commission, consider this as the main commission, and let's have an sanction here. In doing so, we have also received and received the opinion of friends of the current President of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Yasar Yakış, the Minister of Negotiating with the EU today, Mr. Bagis, the Co-Chair of the EU Integration Commission or the Co-Chair of the Karma Parliamentary Commission as well, but so far, from 24 April 2012, this decision still awaits your approval. Once again, as the main opposition, we offer you this proposal, and once again we extend our hand to you, so that we can successfully take the European Union process. I hope, in this hall, in this great House, that every time we extend a proposal, every time you deny it, as you counter every hand we extend with a fist, this hand that we extend may not be in the air. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0058par0280	Thank you. Engin Altay, Sinop MP on behalf of an MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0283	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Before the European Commission for the Commission on the Commission's Institutional Law, I'd like to move accurate information and share my thoughts with the General Assembly on some assessments of the events in Parliament, yesterday in Sinop. Congressmans, democracy is a reaction regime. The protest is the most legitimate state in democracies, but at the same time, I'd like to be known that we're always against violence for whatever reason it is. It is the need of democracy that some of our young people, rather young people, protested some of our MPs who came to Sinop, because of their relationship with the terrorist organization PKK, or because they looked at PKK, and there is nothing wrong with that. But, of course...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0060par0287	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0288	Listen... listen... shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0060par0289	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0290	Woe to you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0060par0291	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0061par0292	Mr. Buldan, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0293	But, of course, we're always against violence, for whatever reason, violence, and I want it to be known.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0060par0294	You're doing what's best for you, you've done what's best for the CHP! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0295	Of course, what happened in Sinop is upsetting.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0060par0296	You've done well for yourself, well done!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0297	It should not be forgotten that Sinop looks like a very small town, so if you're going to do something like this, it's actually wrong to go to the tiny Sinop.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0060par0298	We will go to all places; we will go to Sinop, and we will go to Samsun, and we will go to Tripoli.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0299	Of course you can.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0062par0300	We don't need your permission!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0059par0301	Velev, which continues today in Samsun. But I want one thing to be known...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0062par0302	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0063par0303	Mr. Sakek, please, answer me later.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0064par0304	We'll go wherever you go. You're rude!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0305	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0064par0306	You're naughty!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0307	I'm saying there'll be protests in democracy, no violence. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0066par0308	Please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0309	Can you say otherwise? Listen, listen to what I have to say!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0067par0310	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0066par0311	Mr. Buldan, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0312	Listen to what I have to say! You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0067par0313	Four MPs were asked to be lynched there because of your mayor's provocations!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0066par0314	Mr. Buldan, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0315	Now, members of lawmakers, I was amazed to hear the Prime Minister today. The Prime Minister says that the events in Sinop have included members of the MP and CHP. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know who gave you this information, but if you're looking for a man in those cases... you're hungry, Prime Minister. Again, I will name the Prime Minister after the leader of the AKP youth branch in the largest district of Sinop. I'll give it to him if he calls. There wasn't a Republican People's Party there either.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0068par0317	You have the mayor.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0069par0318	You have the mayor.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0319	It's a shame our friends said the CHP's mayor was there.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0069par0320	Mayor... Mayor...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0070par0321	You have the mayor.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0322	As for our mayor, today our group's vice president told your group president the same thing. Make a statement like that in the local press, in the Internet media, I'm resigning as a member of parliament. He doesn't have that statement.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0070par0323	All right, let's have our congressman friends come by tomorrow and bring it to you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0324	Our mayor, yesterday -- I hate to say it -- was busy treating his wife's cancer in Samsun. It's a shame, not like this! You won't be able to find a position there by attacking, taunting CHP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0071par0325	There's no room for fascists between us.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0326	Now -- one more thing -- yesterday on Twitter, everybody did everything they could to make it sound like Sinop, Madýmak. I said, "Everyone did their best, and I did a tweet, and the Sinopians are going to embarrass those who look like them, or like them, or like them, or like them. I said, and I was right. There, I don't understand what you're going to gain by linking 100-150 young people, most of them from Samsun, the reaction of the young man brought in, the slow conduct of the police, the delay in the intervention to CHP. I'm willing to give the Prime Minister two names that run the AKP. Show me one CHP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0072par0328	Don't involve the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0329	Plus...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0073par0330	Give me those names.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0331	Why should I give it to you? Let him call... the Prime Minister said today that there are people there. Let the Prime Minister say the name.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0073par0333	There's no room for fascists at our party, you have room for them.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0334	On the one hand, the events continue in Samsun. That would put the government first, and I'd like that to be known. And I stand by what I said. Democracy is a reaction regime, of course, but we're against violence.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0074par0335	Four MPs came in, four MPs came in.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0065par0336	You can't call me that before you listen to me, and I condemn you. My respects.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0075par0339	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0076par0340	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0077par0341	Mr. President, about Sinop...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0075par0342	Wait a second... Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0078par0344	Mr. President, it's a political work done by our friends. That's why he says those barbarians are reacting democratically. I want to make this clear.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0079par0345	I didn't say that there was violence. I said there was violence. You've got to be kidding me.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0080par0346	It's a democratic reaction. You said.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0081par0347	Now, Mr. Sakek...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0079par0348	Democracy is a reaction regime, right? What did we say, when our president was being egged in Diyarbakir, in Van? What did you say? Didn't you say regimen? Jesus Christ! E, talk, and I'll answer.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0082par0350	What does that have to do with us?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0083par0351	Mr. Sakek, just a moment...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0084par0352	Didn't you listen to what they were saying?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0085par0353	The people who attacked you are AKP, if you believe.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0083par0354	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0086par0355	It has nothing to do with us.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0087par0356	Why are you getting us involved?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0083par0357	Mr. Sakık, Mr. Altay opposed the statement that the Republican People's Party was involved in the incident in the speech of the Peace and Democracy Party's spokesman earlier. He made a statement, condemned the incident, that's one. Second: Republican People's Party says the mayor and the mayor are not involved. Besides, I-I-I-I-I listened, Mr. Group Vice President, in a bit of a hurry, he used a word. Mr. Altay here has nothing to do with you or the party or any other way to correct it. He condemned the incident, openly condemned the incident, and said the Republican People's Party was not involved. That's what I understand.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0088par0359	Mr. President, let's get the transcripts. There are four MPs who are on their way to Sinop. Since they were PKK MPs, the people who came there demonstrated their democratic response.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0089par0360	I didn't say the MP from the PKK, I said his views, his thoughts, his interests.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0088par0361	That's what you said. I want the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0090par0363	No, no, it's not. Let's ask for the transcripts, if there's a sentence like that...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0091par0364	This is a case. Are you refusing this, the PKK? For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0090par0365	Mr. Buldan, if there's a sentence like that, I'll promise not to pick on you, but I didn't hear it either. Let's get the transcripts, please. Yes, Mr. Ersoy, your request...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0092par0367	Sir, I just want to make one thing right. In the speech made by Mr. Altay, there were two...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0090par0368	Mr. Ersoy, you have no right. We have no right to correct anyone's speech, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0092par0370	Sir, as a Sinop MP, I'm just trying to...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0090par0371	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0093par0372	It's agreed, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0090par0373	No, I know there's a lot of those who don't. So, when we said, "Those in favor of the ruling party," they raised their hands. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals or other audit issues, but we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0093par0375	It's been accepted, it's been passed, hasn't it? Mr. President, it's been accepted, hasn't it?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0094par0377	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0093par0378	Everyone raised their hands, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0095par0379	No, please. All in favor...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0093par0380	They raised their hand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0095par0381	Now, when we say those who agree...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0096par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0093par0383	They raised their hand to be accepted.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0095par0384	I understand, Mr. Aslanoglu, the reports are in the middle. I just made the announcement. When we ask those who agree...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0093par0385	Yeah, everybody raised their hands.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0095par0386	I've seen five or six people raise their hands at the fund-raiser. I asked those who refused, and the majority refused. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals or other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with its 1st ranked First Amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Law Bill on Public Special Co-operation Mode-li by the Ministry of Health, and with Tokat MP Şükrü Ayalan and Çanırı MP İdris Şahin and 4 MPs; with the Proposal of the Plan and Budget Commission Rapo-ru. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 417 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0097par0406	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, we are here today to discuss a bill of law that has significantly altered our healthcare system and has a significant interest in our future, including a number of risks, threats. First, I'm going to bring up our objections to the procedure in a few sentences, and then I'm going to bring up our objections to the content of the law. Dear friends, first of all, we are faced with something that the Justice and Development Party government has always done. Our friends rushed an offer to the law on the last day. Now, these are the things that are intended to go around behind the back of the Civil Code. We said it wasn't true. A subcommittee has been established by the opposition's insistence, but we told Mr. Minister, or rather the former minister, Mr. Akdağ. We told the Commissioner that it concerns health workers, that it brings significant changes to the healthcare system, that it can cause significant problems in the service and the cost of service, and that the relevant parts, especially some of the items that have been proposed, should be discussed in the Health Commission. As a result of our insistence, our friends said, "Okay, let's send it." We've been caught up in the joke with our esteemed Commissioner. You said we should call him, but will you call him back quickly? (x) 417 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Now, in less than a day's notice, our Vice President of the Health Commission wrote an article -- we have friends here from the Health Commission, correct me if I'm wrong. There's a photocopy of the writing here, but I'm not saying not to take time -- we can't get together because of the intensity of our mission's agenda. We asked friends, the Health Commission hasn't held a meeting since June last year. I mean, that's why I was in such a hurry, I was curious about its content, and when I was in a hurry, we thought something had to catch up. Look, I repeat, from June to last year's closing session, the Health Commission hasn't held any meetings on this side, and we can't see each other because of the intensity of our day. What can't he see? It concerns all employees in the health sector, a bill that could leave them out of work tomorrow, a bill that could leave them on the initiative of the private sector. Now, this is point one. These aren't the right things. In other words, we said it concerns the entire staff and the sector. As subcommittee of the National Movement Party, I also told our subcommittee at the time that all health workers' unions and civil servants, representatives of public employees, representatives of all confederations should be called here; come on, he didn't show up at the second meeting, we came to the top commission again. But as a result of our insistence, our friends were gracious to the next meeting -- we called -- and they had a short chance to explain in one of the second, third day's meetings. So, unfortunately, these bills and proposals that we have brought in such a hurry are full of flaws. There's a lot of other things here, of course, but this is coming up, dear friends, what is this law that you're looking at, and so you're looking at something very profound, so the Commission doesn't discuss it, and we said it's about its cost and it's about its presentation. On the one hand, we're looking at hospitals going almost entirely into the private sector, there's some problems with job security, so when we look at it from the opposite, it's legalized that other classes and services related to medical services can also be taken from the private sector. Now, we're looking at it, so you're doing an indirect privatisation, but the scope of this is hiding from the public, hiding from the employees, and it's trying to be spent in the middle of a proposal and a merger of the bill. In fact, when we look at it, dear friends, there's a Law 3996 that's already been implemented here, called a model of public-private partnership, our friends, beautiful, but this has applications in many countries, it has legislation in Turkey, and there's studies that have been done before. Well, we're saying that you're doing something that's so important... in Law 3359, and in Law 3996, there's a logic to it, my dear friends: it says that all of the investments in this area are being taken into account by the public investment stocks and annual programmes, and we understand that no assessment of investment costs, budget loads, and the expansion of debt obligations has been made. Beyond that, we pass, there are dear friends in Law 5018. The 14th article of Law No. 5018, and then the 24th article -- you know, we have regulations again -- there are regulations on this, there are analysis of people who are passing over 10 million TL. The 31st article also says that you do the same thing. It also says that all calculations -- the impact analysis. In addition, the views of the State Planning Agency, the Ministry of Development, the current Ministry of Development, and the Treasury Undersecretary -- are added to these drafts. Is there, Minister? No. We asked at the commission. So you've added these legal arrangements, an analysis of the impact, the views taken from these institutions? We don't have what we've been given, and even though we've asked, nothing's come up. Thus, in such an important law, such a study is being conducted in an illegal way. Dear friends, another thing: it's not just the public -- the private partnership model and the do-and-run model -- you know, health investments are being made, as well as the general budget, as well as the central management budget. There are about eighty-eight hospitals here that have found $5.1 billion. Thus, the cost comparisons between them need to be done which is more effective. It was brought in against the law. There's something more serious than that, dear friends, this law, in exchange for just closing a portion of the existing beds, aims to replace the ones that will be closed without creating a new bed capacity, without creating a new additional bed, because we have the Supreme Planning Board's decision on this issue. Dear friends, when we look here, it's very clear that only the hospital will be allowed to build them in exchange for closing them. I'm reading the same sentence to you, and it says: See, this allows us to reduce the capacity of hospitals predicted to be shut down in preliminary feasibility reports on projects in Eskişehir, Bursa, Isparta, Manisa and Yozgat provinces. So when we look here, dear friends, these are the facilities that are supposed to be built from 7 facilities allowed in the YPK Decision on August 27, 2010, without increasing a new bed capacity. On the other hand, what's the big deal here? Dear friends... Mr. President, even I can't hear myself through the hum.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0098par0424	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0097par0425	Friends, I have a very important matter for you. Look, according to the figures Mr. Secretary and Mr. Undersecretary gave us, we now have a bed available around 122,400. I've asked three times, and I said, "Is it true?" They said, "All my friends of the Commissioner and our friends from the Health Commission are witnesses." We asked our Deputy Undersecretary of Development, and we said, "What is your goal in health?" We said, "The current situation is 26 beds for 10,000 people, average, medium and long term, so if we catch 30 percent by 2023, we will be close to our goal." About 25 grand. So 122,000 plus 25,000, when we reach about 147 thousand beds, Turkey will have reached a normal bed capacity in terms of the number of people. Well, I'm back, I've asked Mr. Secretary again... when you look at the investment programme of 2013, the investment program that was published in the Official Gazette in January -- I can make copies of all of them, if anyone wants them; I have books and documents and court decisions, not to mention, friends who want to be able to look at them -- 88 hospitals and facilities, except the Ministry of Health, universities. The total investments in the health sector in 2013 will be 88 facilities, and the total money will be 5.1, or 5 billion, 167 million. Now, dear friends, do you know how many beds we get out of here? 27.065 bed capacity. These new bed capacity from the Ministry of Health... how much do we need? Twenty-five thousand to be completed in the middle and long term. Well, I see, all of these hospitals are being completed in 2013, 2014, 2015, tops, dear friends. So, now, why are we building these hospitals; who are we doing the central hospital complexes for? The question arises. They say, "Sir, we're going to renovate the hospital." Good. So, are we making a new bed capacity? No, no, no, no, no, We only improve the quality of the hospital building, we can already get the service from the outside. They say it's good. So, what do we get out of this as a state of the Republic of Turkey? As a member of parliament who has an obligation to oversee the effective use of our allocations to the health sector in the Plan and Budget Commission, I ask this question: What are the alternative costs? No. And what do we get in return for that? There is no new bed, and there will be more than 2,000 in three years. Of course, when you see them, then why are you in such a hurry, who have you promised, why are you making these tenders in such a hurry? We're looking at, on the other hand, no confirmation of certain costs. The government has a process, dear friends. I asked our predecessor, Mr. Recep Akdağ, and he gave an example as he spoke, and an investment with 80 million in the preliminary feasibility report went up to 150. Well, I say: "Have you been re-approved by the YPK for this?" He says there is no need. Friends, there's a cost increase, not 10 percent, not 20 percent, but 80 to 90 percent. So, what kind of funding am I going to allocate as the Department of Development, as the former DPT? If there is an increase in all projects that exceeds 50 per cent, what about the money I've assigned to the healthcare sector? On the other side, we have no schools, no classrooms. Why should we pay so much money, billions of dollars for twenty-five years, just to renovate the building when they have an emergency? Okay, if there's an urgent part, let's renovate it, and we have no objection to it. It's already being done, look, there are 88 facilities here, the unit costs are set up. In many countries around the world, unfortunately, when we look at the unit costs -- about 24 per cent -- they did research in England -- it was a lot more, and the debt cost was 83 per cent higher than the usual debt cost of the treasure. Now, well, what do we get out of it then? So in doing so, what is the advantage when we praise this model? It does not exist. Therefore, it must be approved by the YPK again. There are three, four systems in many countries; the cabinet, the concerned minister, the YPK, even the presidents approve of these projects in the process of resolving them, my dear friends, Mr. Secretary; please consider these. So now the Health Department is making a special law for itself, dear friends, a special contract law. Now, did we give this to the Ministry of National Education? We did. Is it in the Ministry of Transport? I do. We gave it to the DSI. Now, are we going to make them a separate law, and they're going to have a public-private partnership agency? I don't understand this. In your government, in your power, at your time, the Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency at the time of your presence has drafted a draft law on the model of a work-work-development model, the public-private partnership model, all the institutions that have submitted to your view. For some reason, he leaves at once, and before anyone else, there's a Public-Special Partnership Agency inside this institution, and we have experts here who know all the sectors. Let us gather at a center. A single law shall be passed, and you shall proceed with the approval of the Council of Ministers or the YPK. Well, now we're gonna have to make law again. So you have to do this one-handedly. Well, here's an interesting thing: this is our friends who have established the office. All I have to say is documented. Again, I have what you want. So don't ask me where I'm from. I know because I collected them all. They set it up, good. Our friend, the deputy director of the agency, has been sanctioned as the agent of the exchange. I asked, if it's an independent apartment, okay. By the power vested in us, Mr. Prime Minister, at the beginning of November, before the KHK authority was over, the Ministry of Health removed the KHK, and what comes out there is the General Directorate of Health Investments, so it should be the unit assigned to it. These friends of ours came, and they got them again in January 2012 -- actually, they needed to be fixed before they left the Plan and Budget Commission, and while they were in the General Assembly -- but we're looking at the amount they recalibrated. In January 2013, he became a re-expensessor. Guys, the S.E.R.C. we pulled out is a unit that's connected to the General Manager. Our expense officer is the General Manager, but our dear friend is still signing off on the tenders. Now, then we think of other things, and we say, "Why are you doing this?" So what do you want to gain from them? What's the rush? Please, Mr. Secretary needs to stop these illegal expenditures and cancel this spending authority's approval as soon as possible. And the Undersecretary doesn't even know about it, the Director General of Health Investments. Because he doesn't see it, Mr. President sent it, the Assistant Secretary or Undersecretary says it's appropriate, it's over. Dear friends, we must obey the laws and decrees we have passed. The other thing is, at the moment, one of the important controversial issues is guaranteed. We know an unlimited guarantee. Look, my dear friends, we've talked about a lot of examples here, all over the world, and we're getting the TEFE, the TIFE average, the inflation guarantee, one. Two: we take the risk of courting as a state. Three: And now our friends have brought in the commission with a motion, which is derivative products, the interest we're going to pay, other variables, fixed interest products, and if we do this by applying the techniques of risk protection, the state will take over all the risks. You said this public-private partnership was based on the transfer of risks to the private sector. Tell us what risk you're taking, Mr. Secretary. There's risk of inflation, risk of exchange, risk of interest. And why are we taking so many risks? We took it all on ourselves. Why are we taking it? To renovate hospital buildings. So we can't afford a new bed capacity, and we don't need a new bed capacity. In many countries, precious friends, such assurances would eventually lead to a guaranteed culture, a culture of garantite in quotes. What's that? If we guarantee it all the time, the firms will force us to take these guarantees to the top. So as long as the treasure is stuck in debt, like the actors in the market cornering it, you can see that there's already a monopoly and it's already going to happen, no one but the 4-5 consortium can get in, and the space is clear. So, my dear friends, there's an example here that's disruptive. Aren't the companies that just invested 5.1 billion dollars in 88 hospitals the children of this country? Why don't you give them that guarantee, why don't you give them those exemptions? Plus, there are private hospitals, and our citizens who make private hospitals invest in the healthcare industry. Why do they not benefit from these guarantees or the recognised tuition, tax exemptions? We're dealing with a bill that disrupts competition, monopolies, even through the public, the monopoly of the private sector, that opens the way for that and paves the way for foreign direct capital. Dear friends, there's a lot of bad judgment in here. If you look at the contract details, we're all sore. I mean, it's so guaranteed, it's so extensive that... the real reason it's broken is because the State cancelled it on the basis of a relevant condition. You know what that is? For a complex that we're going to do in Bilkent, we're going to turn over the properties of the Numune Hospital, the High Medicine Hospital, and the Rehab Center, to the company that owns the buildings. So what? They're going to build beautiful malls, beautiful buildings -- our friends -- in the center of town. That's why it broke down. Please, dear friends, here... And then there's the negotiation, finally. Let's renegotiate after the dissolution. He says, "Let me give this to the company I want." He says, "Mr. Secretary. Yeah, you've already done it, it's out, and renegotiating after it's done, that means tampering with the tender in a normal tender. And the number that you're opening up after this whole thing is just a regular auction, that's just a mix-up to the tender. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're doing this legally by negotiating. When it comes to matter, I'll give you his information and documents again. Given our criticisms, he says you'd be doing a useful job if you could get them to correct them with the motions in the matter.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit03spe0099par0443	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0099par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 417. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on top of the whole bill, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak for him.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0100par0006	Mr. President, I'm going to try to explain the views of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the Law Bill on Building, Renovating, and Service with Public Special Co-operation Model 417 rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this law we're discussing is extremely important. A bill that has brought radical changes in the field of health, of which 120,000 physicians and 650,000 health workers are deeply interested, and of course, with their efforts, 75 million of our people are deeply concerned. We have expressed our views on this in opposition. We'd like to present a few of the issues we consider very important to the public. Because in the 21st century, when governments are not a social state, when they don't offer health and education services to all their citizens and when they try to privatize this area, money, meta, rant, tender and tax evasion, tax evasion, all sorts of tricks are involved. It's a smart job. Since it's fulcrumber, it is of course necessary to discuss intellectual matters in the Plan Budget Commission. We're members of that Commission. However, when it comes to health, if you don't discuss it at the Health Commission, if you don't discuss it at the residency commission, if there's not enough discussion at the Plan Budget Commission, and there's a serious problem. In fact, with the coup d'état of September 12, privatisation has been accelerated, and since 2003, the biggest privatisation has been made during the AK PARTY administrations. In this regard, it is not a quality, effective, efficient and open health policy of health care for all citizens, it is nothing more than a private sector of public hospitals, private facilities, in the form of public private partnerships, given to allies, companies, without tenders, and, in particular, the do-and-work model, the rental model, plus the public private partnership. If you do this with that logic -- our philosophical perspective, we're in favor of a public health policy -- one in favor of capital, the boss, the employer, the companies, the holdings, even the foreign conglomerates, the corporations. It's the first choice the government has today, in favor of capital, corporations, holdings. We want to draw attention to a very clear issue in this framework. In fact, the Prime Minister talks about his 2023 vision, but by this period, you know, if he privatizes all the spaces for forty-nine years up to 2015, if he gives it to the do-and-work model and gives it to him for forty-nine years, I calculate: you get 2071 when it's rented for 2013, 2014, 2015, for forty-nine years. So use the 2015 plus forty-nine-year lease to catch 2071. I mean, that number wasn't thrown out of his head. So, 1071 Malazgirt, 2071, Turkey takes over. It's not the number of the forty-nine-year-old state's treasure, it's the loss of its rents, it's the loss of its citizens. Now, from here on out, the Peace and Democracy Party wants to ask you, and they want to ask you, you want to build these city hospitals. In many counties, their tenders were made in the region, and the Medical Association went to administrative court, and in many places, they made measures. Etimesgut is one of them. Now, can the Ministry give us a picture of this? How many city hospitals do you build, how many acres of land you're going to give, how much public treasure you're going to give this city hospital, with all the feasibility work you're going to do, and what's the cost of it? So we'll vote in Congress, we'd like to know. We wanted this in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we weren't given any numbers, nothing. And since it's not given, unfortunately -- and I'm very clear here -- there's no photo of the financial burden that this bill has already brought to the public, but it's a pretty big number, given how many city hospitals and tenders it's going to transfer from both the general budget and from here to the private sector. So we're talking about a large 100 billion spending that's going to force our budget after energy, this is no joke, this is no joke, guys. Now, there's a Department of Health who can't see the financial burden he's brought to the public, but there's no doubt that they've created at least a resource that's affordable to their own subsidiary companies -- look, pay no attention -- for themselves, for their children and their grandchildren. Why is it so when the tax of the nation enters the treasure, when it has the right to free health, and the state is considered to be the attributes of the republic, when the case of the social state is written? All our citizens are looking for the answer to that question. The burden of the bill is not just the cost of rent and service. Guaranteed loans and... without contract. As a lawyer, there are no deterrents in the law to sign contracts. I mean, what's going to happen to these companies if they don't comply with this contract? He quit his job, he didn't make it work in two years, it's a mystery. Look, there's no transparency about the cost. The Minister's entire bureaucracy is here, and I count 13 of them so far: Kayseri, Ankara Etlik, Ankara Bilkent, Elaziğ, Yozgat, Manisa, Konya Karatay, İstanbul İztelli, Mersin, Bursa, Adana, Gaziantep, İzmir Baylı city hospital has been tendered. Can the Minister put us on this stand and put us in a position of how much money has been put into this place, how much spent, how much data is spent, how much time is spent? I'm betting you can't. Because we asked for it in the Budget Commission, and it wasn't given to us, and since it wasn't given to us, they don't have it. So, what are these health campuses? Friends, we've turned the courts into large courts, we've turned them into malls, go to the Falls Courthouse. The Falls Courthouse looks like a big mall, doesn't look like a courthouse, no one's sorry. It's made of concrete, glass and iron. Yesterday, I noticed that there was an attack on lawyers on the 7th floor, riot forces, security attacks, and attempts to throw people down from the 7th floor into the concrete. Six lawyers getting hurt, no shelters, one big seven-story building, no pots, no greens, guys. Look, the Falls Courthouse is referred to as the largest courthouse in Europe. Now, we're setting up the same kind of shopping malls under the name of health campuses. Now, what's that like? As a lawyer, I'll tell you, listen. See article 1, please, if you have the law - open it. I'll try to explain to you why these malls are shopping malls. 1) (e.g.) joke: (e.g. commercial services.) We're talking about health, aren't we, hospitals? Has the concept of service passed? I'm going again. (k) Look at the bell: the necessary commercial services. Moving on, guys. (r) joke:...... is a facility on the health campus. I'm going again, guys. Why it's a health mall... it's being transformed. In the (s) joke, it's the commercial service area. Again. Did he? It's in a substance that I'm counting on. Again (t) in the joke (t) is a computation project. In the (u) joke, it's also a non-profit agreement. To the "v" joke, "replacement. " Friends, the compound... we're talking about it at the hospital, the campus incident, the settlement... Now, do you understand all this? You'll vote as a congressman. Can there be so many servants on a medical campus, friends, for God's sake? Could this be called the health campus? So, who's gonna take it? You'll be surprised when we explain it to you. Look, have you ever heard of a concept called joint enterprise as lawyers? The joint venture... we just released the Turkish Trade Law. I have friends from law enforcement, joint ventures, business partnerships between more than one real and private law enforcement people. Now, one company came from Qatar, one company from Saudi Arabia, one company from Libya, one company from Kazakhstan, and four from Turkey; they merged and received the tender. Legally, each one of them has a separate law. How can the government legally, with this corporate group, make these contracts with anyone without a hostile driver's license? There's no such thing as a joint venture, friends of the law. There's an anonymous company in the Turkish Trade Law, limited company, collective, commando, et cetera. Have you heard of a special purpose company? No, but it's in the (O) joke, guys. What's a private-purpose company like in hospitals? Well, campus... tens of thousands of people will work. I need a sauna, I need a cafe, I need a bath, I need a hotel, I need a park, I need a gas station, I need an ambulance, I need a car, I need a car. You're moving a whole city somewhere. What happens after that? It's a private-purpose company; all five-star services are in health. Now, that's logic. That's how logic works, guys, when you think about it. These are very dangerous, unlimited, irresponsible, uncertain concepts. I want to say that these concepts will be a problem tomorrow, in the field of law, in these investment areas, in conflict. Why are you avoiding the tender? Why are you avoiding transparency, and why aren't there audit companies and international audit agencies involved? Look, you're gonna have to be very careful when you're making the decisions of billions. Again, look, can you tell me which administration is in charge of the contracts... not to go past thirty years? The Ministry of Health administration? If the Ministry is on his side, if he's bidding it, how's that? Now, after explaining these setbacks, all the relevant institutions explain to you that this bill is crooked, crooked, absolutely privatisation of honey, that it will drive employees into slavery, that it will destroy their union rights, and that it will be commercialized by a full employer's logic. Look, the chairman of the Central Council of the Union of Turkish Medicine says it is clear that the establishment of these city hospitals is part of the privatisation. The concepts of the health ministry hospital, the state hospital, are being eliminated. It's getting up, guys, the government doesn't have a hospital. Now, from Abdulmuttalip, sheikhül Zakir could be the hospital of everyone, but the state, the people, will not have the hospital, because they will soon get the names of the company. Again, let's say that this project, which began with Project Family Medicine, is the second, third, last leg, and the original black hole, black money, tax evasion will be in these city hospitals. From medical instruments, from injections to needles, from all kinds of medications to medications, all sorts of things will be unlimited, irresponsible, unregistered, abandoned to the mercy of corporations without any boards, and again, the position of the Health and Social Services Syndicate is a clear sign of its intentions, of making public-private partnerships, of Turkey, of Turkey leaving as Canada as it left its crisis, and Turkey's understanding of how to partner and do things with it in these city hospitals and in this crisis period is a sign of its means of opportunity.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0101par0034	Mr. Kaplan, do they have mental hospitals, mental hospitals?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0102par0035	Do you need it or do you need it?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0100par0036	City hospitals have all kinds of services, five stars...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0101par0037	The asylums?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0102par0038	Do you need it or do you need it?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0101par0039	I need it, I need it. I need a mental hospital.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0103par0040	We'll maintain that view with our motions. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0104par0043	Thank you. On top of the bill, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0105par0046	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Health, whose number is 417, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Building, Renewal and Service Model. I salute all of you, our esteemed observers. Dear friends, while Turkey deals with this Imran process, Ergenekon, Balyoz, Silivri, etc., all of this, life goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and We're constantly making laws without doing too much of our audit duty as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. One of them is this bill. With this, you know, city hospitals will be built. In this regard, the Ministry of Health began tenders a while ago, making tenders for some hospitals. We don't know why. We've been working on this for about two months on the Plan and Budget Commission, but we didn't really understand why, but we found out later on in the media that the Prime Minister had a dream about city hospitals, that he had to make these city hospitals work somehow. We think that's probably the real reason, we think that's the real reason why this is coming up, but it's a very important reason that Mr. Prime Minister has linked it to democracy. You know, the one who criticised the principle of the famous division of forces of democracy, where he said that the judgment was too strong, that it needed to be strengthened to take over the administration and so on, and so on. It's such a big deal, so we've almost reached a point where we're willing to sacrifice democracy on this issue. My dear friends, we're not in a very good health condition, there's usually a problem with health. In health care, we had a very luxurious, very bright period, especially in the 2006s, raising our health care costs sixfold in the 2007s, but everything seemed to be very good, but our health expenses increased six times. And then we saw it cost a lot of money. When the IMF criticised us, we decided to save money on this issue. Today, in health, when you go to an insured hospital, when you take medication, when you're examined, for various reasons, you get 11 different kinds of differences from yourself, 11 different kinds of health care. It's come to this, so we've ended our glorious days in health, our bright days, and now we've entered a period of noticeable, troubled times. And now we've established the Public Hospitals Association. Many Directors of the Ministry of Health also manage the Public Hospitals, and there they are CEOs with huge numbers, such as 10-12 million liras or a thousand liras now, so they entered the ceo era. There are high-level executives now in health, that's the kind of time we're in. Dear friends, let's get down to brass tacks. Now, what we're working on today's bill is that you have a hospital, you make a deal with strangers, they destroy your hospital, they build a new hospital instead, they make a beautiful, luxurious hospital. For this hospital, you, as the hospital owner, are paying him rent for 25 years for your hospital collapse. You pay rent for twenty-five years, which is what the bill says, twenty-four years, but our contracts, so far, are twenty-five years. In these twenty-five years, you also run profitable parts of your hospital from the parking lot to the imaging centers, back to your lab; you don't use it, you run it. For him, you also pay for such services, such as cleaning, security, and so forth. Imagine, for 25 years you've had your hospital torn down and paid rent, and you've paid rent for these services, and you've also paid rent for these services. We don't know what's going to happen in 25 years, unless it's normally handed over to you, but it's extended in 25 years. Twenty-five years from now, if you can keep this up, if you have the ability to do it, that's a question mark. That's the point. You tear down your hospital, you pay rent for twenty-five years, and you give away the rant facilities, and the parts that cost money, especially the private sector, and you let others operate them.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0106par0052	Malls, malls...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0105par0053	In a sense, these are malls, these are campuses, very large businesses. I'm going to mention that in the future. Currently, for example, the Etlik Hospital in Ankara is envisioned as 3.566 beds; 3,566 beds, but Ankara Etlik Hospital has been removed. The Ethics Hospital rents a building from somewhere and can't serve properly. And that's what happens until these hospitals are built. The Union of Turkish Medical Medicine has brought the matter to justice, as I have just said... in fact, before this bill, the Ministry of Health entered this practice, began to make its tenders, but when the Union of Turkish Medicines brought it to the judiciary, the judiciary said it was contrary to the Constitution's 2 and 7th Amendment clauses, and that if you cannot do it yourself, you must establish a law, according to a law. I mean, on the one hand, it's started, and on the other hand, we're in the middle of organizing the legislation. With all this, the Ministry of Health is planning to build 37 hospitals so far, and he's planning to tear them down, but he's planning to do it just like he did at Kayseri Hospital. This won't increase our bed capacity, our number of hospitals, there's not much profit for us. It's just, maybe, we'll have a chance to renovate a hospital that's now completed a few lifetimes, and, of course, we'll have a pile of new, fancy equipment, but not much change in our number of beds. Dear friends, we discussed the matter at the Plan and Budget Commission. Of course, there's the financial side, there's the financial side, but it's also a topic that needs to be discussed in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, because it's about the size of the Health Commission. However, the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission responded: "Our work is very busy on this matter. We cannot see each other. " We later learned that the Commission for Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs has not met for seven months. Unfortunately, we've had a comedy like this, and I'd like to share it with you. My dear friends, we, the Republican People's Party, have a lot of objections to our opposition. We've covered the issue, we've had reviews of matter and matter, but we've discussed it in different ways. For example: We look at the economic issue, we approach it, we have this kind of criticism: if you look at the economy, we're in a very important period of crisis in terms of the international economy, we're in a very important crisis, and you know that we're deeply affected by this crisis. You know, last year we had a budget deficit that was way over our projections, and our budget was way over our projections. Our cari deficit, you know, is, in the same way, very high. In 2011, we grew up 8.5 years old, and in 2012, we were affected by this crisis, and our growth fell below 3 ▪, so suddenly we had a very rapid decline. We have problems. Public debt is $532 billion by the end of 2012, and we now owe 532 billion to the public. Under the circumstances, we're building 37 hospitals, based on the initial accounts that we're going to pay close to $20 billion for. All of a sudden, in these economic conditions, we're going to tear down 37 hospitals, and we're going to throw away such an important amount. What's the hurry, fellas? Is there anyone who can explain this financially? What is it? Why are we saving this kind of money? So when you look at it from an economic perspective, it doesn't really make sense. On the other hand, you're looking at it in terms of GDP, for example, from previous years, there's been a decline in public investments in 2002. So if we're going to do this, we have to do some hospitals, there's a reduction in public investments, we can do it directly as public investments, with budget opportunities. Why don't we do that? There's no way to figure that out. On the other hand, foreign capital will come. It is called. In fact, this is the kind of export-oriented sectors that countries such as Turkey, whose capital is scarce, should encourage. You have a shortage of resources, you have capital, you encourage export-turning sectors, you make foreign currency for your country. You've given so much space, so much trouble, you've got job problems, you're trying to increase exports. On the contrary, you're only using this in the service industry -- that in a field with no new bed capacity. I mean, from an economic standpoint, it's really not possible to understand them. On the other hand, our former Minister of Health said that foreign capital would come during a talk at the Commission, and from there it would be good. But the foreign capital is limited only to devices. We're going to do hospitals -- you know -- with TL. We're not going to have any foreign resources from abroad to build hospitals here. Foreign resources will only come in connection with imported equipment. I mean, in this respect, not economically, but economically. And you have a fixed investment for 25 years to build a hospital. You pay rent every year. In comparison to the total rent costs, there are very abnormal numbers. Look, we have a sample of Kayseri Hospital, the tender for Kayseri Hospital is $650 million. The annual rent for Kayseri Hospital will be $54 million, but in addition to the payments we call the "P1" and the "P2" in addition -- I'll tell you about it later -- the sum total is 83 million. So $137 million a year, we'll pay for Kayseri Hospital. You're looking at this, and when you evaluate these for twenty-five years, it's about $3 billion, $425 million. It's said by the Ministry of Health officials: all of this, not all of the $137 million is rent. That's $54 million rent, not rent. Others are also spending on other departments -- because we are expanding the business -- we are also multiplying this kind of spending. • There may also be companies that will only be involved in this kind of spending, where they will make a huge profit. I mean, it's a very lucrative, very economic investment in terms of economics, and it's never really an investment. Other than that, is there any other account besides the one I just did, the one I told you about? Believe me, we worked for the Commission for nearly two months, and the Ministry of Health didn't give us an account like that. You know, according to Law 5018 -- this came out of our Parliament a few years ago -- an analysis of the impact needs to be presented as an alternative, and they can't give us that kind of analysis, no, but the account of this is in the case of Kayseri Hospital. They couldn't say, "If this account is wrong, it's the right thing to do, dear friends." Well, it's also fiscally wrong, so normally public investments are done with budgets. Why do we make budgets every year, why do we make medium-term programs, start three-year budgets? In doing so, of course, public resources, resources have been looked after, so they need to be done from public resources, that's what's normal, but we're keeping it out of the budget, we're trying to do it outside the budget, so we're doing it against budget principles, and we're doing a very wrong job in terms of budget principles, in terms of financial discipline. Now, in terms of health plans, we as the Republican People's Party Group have come to the point. I'm looking at health plans, and there's a program that the Council of Ministers approved in 2013. The main problem in health care is not the lack of hospitals and beds, but the unstable distribution across the country. It says there is no shortage of hospitals. It says there is no shortage of beds. It says there is an anomaly in the distribution across the country. The doctor says there is a problem in the distribution of nurses, and there is a problem in its distribution. This needs to be resolved. So that's what the Ministry of Health needs to prioritize, to fix it, to spend money on it, to put it in the front row first, to solve this problem. In 2011, we had an OECD average of 76, and we had 65.6. Look, we're only 65.6; the OECD average is 76, so we're a lot lower in beds. Why would there be so many -- 43,000 and so many beds destroyed under these circumstances? It's hard to understand why we're trying to increase this. And there was also a law called 'Tamm Day', you know, a few years ago. - I use full day under my fingernails, not exactly a full day, because not exactly a full day, he has ruined our doctors, our hospitals, our universities. The health industry is a scandal with this Full-Day Law. We can't raise doctors anymore. I'm afraid the medical training is very bad. Now, in a situation like this, why are we putting this first? It's impossible to understand, it's really not possible. I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart. Another issue is the approach to hospital management. There are doctors among you and doctors from our listeners. A hospital operates at random between 200 and 400 beds. Hospitals between 200 and 400 beds are random, efficient, but now we're building hospitals capable of 3,500 beds. That's the way it is in literature. We've talked about this with the Ministry of Health authorities, but it's never been about that. They didn't say it, they didn't say it, so that's what it's about in literature. The other thing about health is that now, for 25 years, hospitals will be dependent on contractors, so for 25 years, they will only use the brands of certain companies, certain countries, and they will use their devices, and therefore they will use the spending materials that depend on them, so we will not be able to bring up a norm and standard on the equipment related to the health ministry. We have this problem, whichever firms have received the tender directly, whichever countries have taken. There should be incentives for domestic production, domestic medical equipment, but, unfortunately, you're looking at it, so we're only going to get foreign equipment, and we're encouraging them. That's how we kill our own companies in the medical field, in the biomedical field. That's not gonna happen. So for example, this is a very, very important issue. And that's how we're gonna kill our very few firms that are already trying to get a little pointy. There are some very important issues, both legally and administratively. There were very different alternatives to the issue, and this model could be solved within the framework of a real estate investment partnership. The issue is fundamentally contrary to the Constitution. He's talking about one contract, and there are at least six contracts in the entire bill. However, the State's Office has already announced that the contract must be well defined, that it should be in accordance with this contract. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He lacks that. We're drafting the bill in a way that can go back to trial. In regards to many of his articles... My dear friends, my other friends, will be critical of the matter as it comes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0107par0077	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ahmet Arlen, Kars MP, has been asked to speak on behalf of the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on Bill 417. I'll try to enlighten you as much as I can as I can as the subcommittee and then as the Commissioner. My respects to all of you. Before we go into details about the bill, Mr. Engin Altay of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Engin Altay, has made a statement here, and since Mr. Mehmet Ersoy, our Sinop MP, has no chance to respond at that moment, I would like to share a piece of information on his behalf. A statement has been made saying that the head of the youth branch of Boyabat, the largest district of Sinop. However, our friend was in charge of the county that day, and in any case, he was not involved. The other person he's talking about is associated with the AK PARTY, which is the president of the former youth arm, but he's not doing any work at the moment. I'd like to present this to your information, in particular. So I want to make it clear that in some way, it's not right to be associated with the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0109par0083	It was a good confession.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0110par0084	Right now, the only culprit is four BDP MPs, who went to Sinop.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0085	We're interested in the health department's investments in the public private cooperation model or the do-or-rev model...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0111par0086	The AKP, which appointed the BDP, left because it said "Go."
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0112par0087	Mr. President, why do you allow him to tease Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0088	I'd like to make it clear to you that the first, the Plan Budget Commission, you know, has already served as the primary commission on the budget-related laws, and we've served in that sense. However, many friends from the Health Commission came to the Plan Budget Commission to contribute very seriously to this law study, to the bill. Let's just say that we have three fellow members who are doctors, including our current Health Commission President, who have contributed especially to their professions, more or less when the bill was being discussed in the Commission. We have a lot of friends in the past who know the do-and-do models and, again, who are interested in banking or financial sectors, we have financial advisor friends. In this sense, at about a month and a half a month, they contributed to the ministry by combing through every item, asking the Ministry, making corrections, if necessary. I especially want to stress that the public-private collaboration name means that the public sector's investments can also be used to stimulate the dynamics of the private sector, by bringing the energy, the performance, the speed of the private sector into it. Our country has been able to set an example in the world, especially in transport, energy, and many areas, of the do-and-do model model model. Over 10 billion dollars so far, he's been bidding on this model; over $7 billion, after his tender process with this model is finished, he's earned a right of privilege. You can't rule that out. The reason is that, especially since 1980, European countries have modeled this model, but Turkey has been implementing this model for nearly 19 years since 1994. But we all know that the Turkish person's mind is different and more practical than that of the person in Europe or the person in the Far East. I want to stress this sentence specifically: it's more practical. And yet, you can imitate their models, but you have to do the Turkish model by mixing your own practical intelligence. Here's a model of the Turkish model in the make-and-run model and the do-skirala-revret model in the world. Why? The reason is that people from many countries around the world come and listen, see examples in Turkey; they organise conferences, seminars, panels.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0091	Mr. Ahmet, don't the Turks have any brains? The Europeans have a mind. You say!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0092	Mr. Aslanoglu, you don't listen to me very well!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0093	I listened well.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0094	I said, "The Turkish mind, the Turkish intelligence, works better than anyone else, because we take the projects they do, and then we add our own practice, and then we create the Turkish model. I'll stress that again: we're building a Turkish model. Know it well, Aslanoglu, you know it well, and others know it well.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0095	The old-fashioned projects they abandoned, they're out-of-date!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0096	Again, dora-kirala-Environment projects are widely implemented in Europe, Latin America, Far East.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0097	He's nowhere to be found!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0098	...units are opening up on this issue, units are opening up in universities; in Turkey, the public sector, the private sector, and the financial sector alone are being formed, and these are the new models, they are developing contributions to the model. So, the do-and-work model has been implemented in Turkey by a law that's been in Turkey for 19 years, with 3396, but we've seen today in health care, especially because we think that a new law that has more specific details in dol-rerala-devels is much more necessary, so we've come up with a bill about the healthcare area, and we've contributed to that in the Commission. So, today, unlike the do-and-do, that's probably why this law comes in terms of health care, and I want to stress it specifically to friends.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0100	Didn't CHP physicians support you, Ahmet Bey?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0101	Of course, there are many things being done in the field of health in Turkey; of course, hospitals in Turkey are being made in healthcare; hospitals are being made more modern. However, the AK PARTY did this: within ten years, the AK PARTY made people who couldn't find ambulances, helicopter ambulances, aircraft ambulances, people in health care. Since our people's expectations are so high -- the modern hospitals that have fallen from an average of 50 square metres per patient to 150 square metres -- have set a target in front of the AK PARTI governments in order to build modern-day-service hospitals. To achieve this goal, it can be done by investing in the public budget, as you say, but you can achieve it in 20 years. Here's the difference between the AK PARTY: AK PARTY implements private sector dynamics, bringing these services to our people's feet in five years, and in the remaining 20 years, it predicts that our people will continue to take advantage of it, and that payment will be done after that. Of course, if you're implementing private sector dynamics, you're providing them with funding, especially at the point where the world is coming, you have to bring risk sharing at a point where there's a crisis in the world, when loans are shrinking, when there's a chokehold. What happens when you bring risk sharing? You get the same job, but the more you reduce the risk, the more loans the financial sector lends here, the less they can borrow, the less they can borrow, and when they do, the more comfortable you find a contractor, and you do your job, and you can do your job. I wanted to stress that in particular again. Again, another thing I'd like to emphasize, of course, is that we bring exceptions to the Public Contraction Act, but why do we bring exceptions? The model we want to bring in is an exception to public tender laws in many parts of the world, and there are regulations for it. Getting out of the Public Contraction Act means...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0103	What about commercial spaces, Mr. Ahmet, commercial spaces?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0104	... It's not like you can just take the contract and give it to someone. Why not? If you read the 10th article of the bill, the rules and regulations concerning this law must be adopted, and they will be arranged after that.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0105	Who's going to buy commercial spaces, commercial spaces?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0106	They will be tendered under them, tendered in competition.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0107	Who's he gonna bid on?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0108	Whoever comes in and joins the competition and provides the conditions wins. Well, about the commercial areas... let me not offend you, Mr. Aslanoglu, but let me get to the point of business.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0110	Well, don't break it... good for you! What about commercial spaces?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0112	Now, I'm going to get to the subject of commercial spaces...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0113par0113	Who's bidding, where's the money going?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0114	Please, if you'll excuse me, I'll get to that.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0114par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0116	Once, I specifically stated that it wasn't available without bidding, one.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0115par0117	No contract...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0118	One more thing our friends are confusing: this law, this bill, once it's legal, there'll be rules, there'll be regulations, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll be rules, there'll
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0115par0119	Put it here, here...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0120	...and, depending on these, the tender documents, the terms...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0115par0121	Put it in the law, Ahmet Bey.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0122	...contacts, contract drafts. Some details will be there. On what? The contract and the terms will be within the framework of your procedures and fundamentals and the law.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0115par0123	What's not in the law doesn't happen in the regulations.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0124	The procedure and the fundamentals will be within the powers vested in you by the law, so if you bring in what should be the details of a document and say, well, excuse me, Mr. Aslanoglu, this is not in accordance with the laws and conditions. I'll tell you something else, and I'll tell you something else...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0115par0126	For God's sake! Mr. Ahmet, this is the first time we've ever made a law! You bring everything in and put it in here for the first time...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0116par0127	Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0128	Mr. Aslanoglu, relax about this.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0117par0129	Don't answer, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0116par0130	Please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0131	There's a crisis in the world.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0118par0132	What about commercial spaces?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0116par0133	Mr. Arslan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0134	So you said, AK PARTY says that we don't have a crisis with our governments, but the crisis has passed. What does that mean? Your growth of 8 percent falls to 3 percent, and as the world's crisis eases, your crisis is already past, and it rises again. So you're so used to the numbers that when the successes of the AK PARTY come down a little bit in itself, you're saying it's a failure. Therefore, please do not consider bringing this in, especially in private sector dynamics, as a reason for the increase in budget deficits, as a reason for other things. We care very, very much about domestic production. That was expressed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and it was expressed here. In particular, medical equipment and the dissolution are 15 percent of all investments. It's been said that 85 percent of the money is... no, 15 percent of the money, and the Ministry has been given a mandate as follows: minimum 20%. Why? Today, 20 per cent is valid, and two years later, as domestic production in Turkey develops, the rate increases. I'd like to bring this to your attention in particular. There are payments for extracurricular work. Here's where I come in on your question. The contractor will build the hospital, finish the hospital in three years, and keep the hospital ready to run. How much? Twenty-five years. What's the difference? The difference is we're making public investments. Public investment starts, there's a lot of problems. Re-invest in survival, re-supply, do this, do that, and we say three years, sometimes seven years, sometimes eight years. The value we expect from that job and the things we need to do in terms of social responsibility are automatically worth three to five years. But that's not our goal. Our goal is to allow the system to be completed within three years and to be restored to the administration, which has been maintained, frugal, fixed, and modernized in accordance with the technology of the day for 25 years, because the system is in the name of management. Again, a lot of service at the same time after you've been hired to run... what? Could be a cafeteria, could be commercial space, could be a hotel. But what's the point there? The goal there is that you don't build a hospital with 200 or 400 beds, you build many hospitals within the hospital complex or campus. Hospitals integrated with each other, each majored in their own field. Your patient's going to switch places if he's moving into the campus area. If not, he will rise up from Ethlik, and not rise up from there to Oncology, and all will be in a complete complex. And yet, if you're building a complex and a campus this big, there's nothing as natural as building a hotel where the families, the relatives, can stay here, there's nothing as natural as making a restaurant, there's nothing more natural than building a cafeteria or creating a commercial space where their needs can be repaired. Because it's been expressed in the law, there are mandatory commercial areas that are essential in this framework, and there are commercial areas called old people. That's how you separate them, but you say that all of these things are taken, so you have to define them. Honourable MPs...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0119par0138	What do you need it for?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0139	Mr. Ahmet, tell me about the commercial rent.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0140	Let me tell you about the rents.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0141	Oh, tell me about him.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0108par0142	When the investor invests in the hospital, he says he's going to build commercial space on campus...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0143	Who's gonna get the rent?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0121par0144	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0145	Who gets the rent, Mr. President? Who's gonna get the rent?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0121par0146	Please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0122par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0148	Who's gonna get the rent?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0121par0149	Let's not interrupt your honor.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0123par0150	We're not interrupting, we're asking a rhetorical question.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0151	We want an explanation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0124par0152	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0125par0153	Mr. Arslan, please address the General Assembly. Let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0154	Who's gonna get the rent? Who's gonna bid on those commercial rents?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0124par0155	Mr. President, if the friends of the Plan and Budget Commission didn't understand this during a month and a half of discussion, let me answer their questions to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0156	Mr. President, he teased me.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0124par0157	The question is, what about the rents? What about the commercial area? The commercial area will be as follows: The contractor will build the next hospital.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0158	Mr. President, he picked on me, accused me of being insensitive.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0124par0159	When he runs this hospital, he'll know how much money he's going to get from the government, and he'll know what kind of commercial spaces are in this campus, and he'll know what kind of revenue he's going to get in these commercial areas. So, while you're bidding, the Ministry of Health is going to say, "Hey, I'm doing you a 1 job, I'm getting 2 units of rent, I'm getting 1 unit from commercial space, and I'm paying you a 1 unit of rent. You're getting all the offers, you're looking at all the offers, if it's low on commercial space, you don't have to pay the rent, because that's the kind of right we have, you don't have to pay it in this law. After all, you will form a commission, your commission will be an expert committee of one person, not two people, many people, and they will do their work, and if there is a situation in the health ministry's interest, they will conclude the tender, or they will not conclude it, or they will separate the commercial space.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0120par0160	Write, write, write to the law.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0124par0161	In a nutshell, Mr. Aslanoglu, we have found that in the process of a one-and-a-half-month commission debate, everyone has made serious contributions, the ruling MP, the opposition MP, it doesn't matter. Again, in the eyes of lawmakers, the Ministry would be better off if it was jumped or changed. There were many things he said, and with many proposals, the bill came to an end. I'd like to say that if you, the Ministry of Health, were able to do what you've done in 25 years in five years, you'd serve our people twenty more years. If you use this method in half the country, you can save your budget for the other half. With this budget, you can build another 200 beds of Kars County Hospital at the centre of Kars. Again, you build a 200-bed university hospital at Kafkas University, you plan an oncology hospital. You'll build another 50 beds of state hospital in Sarıkamis district, and you'll plan to build another 50 beds of state hospital in Kezman district. You don't act like they're from us in Selim, Digor, Arpachay, Akyaka, in the remote part of the country, they're not from us. So we're AK PARTY, so for ten years, votes have been increasing, and we're trying to give better services, better services. In this bill, I hope we'll be law enforcement and better services. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0126par0165	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0127par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0126par0167	Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0127par0168	In his speech, he accused Plan Budget members of being unreasonable.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0128par0169	He didn't do that.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0126par0170	I don't know what he said, but I don't understand...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0129par0171	We're witnesses.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0130par0172	He said: 'If you don't understand there, I'll tell you here. He accused us of being unreasonable. I want to answer.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0129par0173	We want the same thing. And I, as Commissioner, as subcommittee...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0131par0174	As commissioner, so do I.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0132par0175	That didn't happen. Mr. Farid, don't do this if you love your God.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0133par0176	He did, Mr. Arslan, and I listened, so it's true. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0134par0181	Mr. President, very valuable members, we know that whatever's being done in this country for the public, whoever's doing it, should be grateful. I'm not a physician, but you thanked my fellow physicians from the Republican People's Party Group who gave me thousands of thanks, and they gave me great support, and you didn't tell me how random a campus with 4,000 beds and 5,000 beds was.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0135par0183	I said them first, and you jumped.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0134par0184	I'd like to thank the fellow physicians from the MHP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0135par0185	I said them first.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0134par0186	Friends, I want the answers to these questions -- I understand very well, Mr. Ahmet, I understand very well, and I know very well that I read -- I haven't been able to answer three questions in a month and a half, and we still haven't. 1) Friends, in Turkey, the area that will give the service to the company in particular once is over, okay, 25 years, in a trust, in service, they will have to be there. Turkey is destroying competition. Maybe in five years, I'll want to serve you cheaper in the service.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0136par0188	That's what we're doing.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0137par0189	Five years tops. We changed it.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0134par0190	No, we did that later with my... For one thing, that was the first thing. Here, after our persistent objection... they used to give it 25 years. 2) Friends, convince me, what about commercial revenues? Who's bidding? How are they going to tender it? How will these revenues be shared? They built a very large, 100,000 square meters, 200,000 square feet of mall, they built markets, they built shops. You're saying there's a whole city with 5,000 beds? Well, who's going to pay these rents? Who's gonna get this rent money, how's it gonna go? Bring it, and I'll sign it. Once every five years, tender these malls, commercial spaces, plus non-essential commercial spaces, with the Contraction Act, and I'll sign it. You can't answer that, so I'm having a hard time understanding what you're saying. Why are you doing this? I've had a hard time.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0138par0193	Thank you. Mr. Günal, you're asking for the same reason, because of the bullying. Here, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0139par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, our Subcommittee should really understand, according to the members of the Commission, Mr. Arslan has been on the subcommittee for a long time. Now, the questions we're asking are clear. There's a folder I just brought in, there's four or five books in it, five or six articles on samples abroad, reports. I told him about the World Bank reports, and I said, "They're all there, Mr. Ahmet, so if there's any part of it that's not understood, let's say it from there." Plus, they all need to get together in the Ministry of Development. I said there's something there. Along with the Treasury and the finances, there's an expert thesis on them that our friends are doing. We've read them all from cover to cover for two months, almost with our dear friends, but I still don't understand the logic of it. I don't understand. There's a point to where I call it. What don't I get? Tell me about it. Why, although no new bed capacity has been created, I asked Mr. Minister, and I asked him, "Why do we only take up what will come from here, what will come from the business business, and why do we take up all of it, if we complete all of it, if these preliminary feasibility reports come from the previous one, if it comes from twice as different as it was before? Why do we only give the money to rebuild the building? Doesn't Turkey need it?" I asked him, and with the income coming from here, what will come from here, what's the commercial business business business, and why do we only assume it's essential, why does the treasure take up all of it? Well, if it isn't the other God's men, aren't they Turkish citizens? Look, you're building 88 hospitals, 5,1 billion, 5.2 billion. I said, why don't you give them the same advantages? There are many private hospitals in Turkey, many private clinics, whether you try to shut them down or try to centralize them. Why don't you give tax exceptions to the people who do these things, why don't you give them the same kind of funding that they do to the healthcare industry when they find... so we say, "Why create a public health monopoly, why do you need a few consortiums?" These are the ones we don't understand, so I'd appreciate it if you'd tell me.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0140par0201	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm a member of the Plan Budget Commission... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Two minutes for bullying... [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] One thing I'm surprised at is that we didn't understand, but you understand... we asked for 13 of these, the auctioned health campus things. What's its yield, its feasibility, brother, how much did you give it, how long will it last, how long will it go? You couldn't get that out of us on the Plan Budget Commission. We asked about the new bids, we asked about them, you couldn't give them. If you can't, brother, there's a court order, there's a restraining order, and you're bypassing them, and that's good. Well, there were 2 million green cards. What are you going to do? Now, what would a company think in a place you privatized? Profits, profits. He doesn't think about the health of this country, of the citizens; he thinks about money, money, money, money. A thinks of nothing else, let me show you. You see that? He thinks about it, doesn't think about your health. How much does this earn when you hand over the hospitals to a company from Saudi, Kuwait? My people don't think it's healthy to have children grow up healthy in this country. He wants supplementary insurance, he wants a contribution, he wants an increase in his contribution, he lets him go where he wants to go, he gets out what he doesn't want. There are 2 million green cards in this country, 20 million people under the poverty line. Tell me how you're going to treat them in these hospitals. If you're so concerned, why don't you co-optify the Medical Association, the health workers, and make them partners in management? Why don't you make health workers partners? Do it, let's see you. Why don't you take over? Why don't you take over? Why are you looking at me like an enemy? We've said all this in the Commission, none of which have been answered. You know too much, we know little. Don't film us, it's a shame. There's more stuff, lots of motions. Let me be clear, we'll have each other in the morning. Good luck with that. Thank you. [[Continue]] Recai Berber, MP of Manisa, who asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0141par0217	Oh, Mr. Barber!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0142par0218	Mr. Barber!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0219	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, it turns out we're being bullied while we're still saying hello.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0142par0220	Mr. Berber, do you think it's a tease? We just said Mr. Berber.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0221	I salute you all. Yes, I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Health, 417, on the general part of the Bill of Law on Building, Renovating, and Service with the Public Special Co-operation Model. I salute your high council. Dear friends, this matter has been discussed in our Commission for nearly a month and a half -- both in the subcommittee and in the Commission -- and has already been discussed in public. Because, as friends said earlier, some of the issues of regulations had been cancelled by a court order, and there was a question of stopping the execution. Therefore, both in the lower commission and in the Commission, including in this whole judicial process, and all of which have been considered important contributions, including the proposals of fellow ruling-Muslims, and according to the law text -- the way it came out of the commission -- are important, indeed -- I am underlining -- very important changes in the Commission. Dear friends, in general abroad, we know the public-private partnership projects, known as the public-private partnership, are not in fact new in Turkey, but in 20 years as the BOT, or as the construction-business-development. The Yak-kirala-Devret model has been implemented recently. So we're not just developing public-private cooperation for these projects of the Ministry of Health. Now, here I am asking the friends who are talking about the size of these Health Ministry projects, the magnitude of these projects: about a year before that, again, in our Commission, again, this time, about a project of the Transport Ministry, we bring in provisions that guarantee the project to be left unfinished or taken over, we all argue and argue.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0144par0226	We may have had an argument together. Did we say yes, Mr. Barber? Did we just say yes?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0227	Notice, that project was not only Turkey's biggest project, but the European project's. It was a $7.5 billion 11-12 quadrillion project, Istanbul-Izmir highway, a public-special collaboration project, my friends.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0144par0228	The two had nothing to do with it, not the same projects.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0229	No, there's 22 years and eight months, including production, running...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0144par0230	No, not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0145par0231	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0232	Twenty-five years here, so to speak.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0144par0233	One highway, one commercial.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0146par0234	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0235	Now, dear friends, the main focus here is that, especially when the opposition MP says that our questions are very concrete, even though we answer very concretely, these questions remain unanswered. For example, the trade zones outside the campus area were in the law, didn't we all pull this out together? We got it. Right now, it's just a matter of renting trade spaces on the campus. Here, the lease can only be submitted directly to the right, as it can be submitted to be deducted from the rent, which is entirely under the Ministry of Health's control and initiative, but can be kept by the Ministry of Health for later hire, if not given at the time. Then, something was said here that the trading sites, the company that's going to build this campus, will do whatever they want, the mall, the hotel, the motel, whatever they want.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0147par0237	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0143par0238	There's no such thing. Under the terms of the tender...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0148par0239	I do.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0147par0240	What do you mean, no? That's right. Just like that.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0149par0241	You won't get involved.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0242	Wait a minute... I'll tell you. The tender stipulates older trade areas and mandatory trade areas.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0149par0243	They didn't give it to us...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0244	Hey, guys, we need a hotel here later, and we don't need a hotel here. So these trade zones are both mandatory trade areas, the cafeteria, and then, after that, as some of the social utensil fields have been refurbished, then, after the conditions for the construction of these trade fields, there's no change after the tender. No one gets up and...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0149par0245	What do you mean, no? Doesn't he say he can hand it over to whomever he wants?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0246	Dear friends, no. Here, the rents of the trade zones can be deducted from the start, as well as the rent costs.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0151par0247	Who's gonna find the rent? Who will identify the rent, Mr. Barber?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0152par0248	Department of Health.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0249	As a matter of fact, for example, trades have not been given at Elazig City Hospital. There's a sample, there's a concrete sample. So...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0151par0250	You're gonna give it to me for free, you're gonna say, "I got it. I got it."
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0153par0251	Mr. Aslanoglu, please... we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0252	Dear friends, again, in the same way, it's said that if there's no additional bed capacity, why are we renovating these hospitals, why are we doing it?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0154par0253	Why are you losing so much?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0254	Dear friends, we've been doing it for ten years. Have we made 40,000 beds in ten years? We did it on the budget. Now we say: Dear friends, in Turkey, all over the world, today in England, more than 250 billion pounds of these projects were done in Italy, and even in Hungary, prisons were built in this way, with this model.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0154par0255	They're sorry now, expensive...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0256	Yes, yes, if you look at the samples.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0154par0257	I've looked, I've got samples.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0258	The other thing, frankly, is that what I'm saying is that the friends say that we're in a conflict: since the public debt stock is so low, the public is in debt under very proper conditions, they've always offered us a model in the Commission. Dear friends, Turkey has suffered a great deal in the past because of the height of public debt. Especially since 2008, you don't know when the financial crisis in the world is going to have an impact on the real-estate crisis. So if we do concrete, measurable projects in this way with public-private cooperation, with the do-and-work model, with the do-retrial-development model, we'll reduce the need for public debt. Tomorrow, when we need it, the public will continue to owe it very freely and very well. If you don't borrow on these terms, if you don't start the private sector, raise public debt again, the result will increase real interest in both the public sector and the private sector, as it was ten years ago. It's not just going to hurt the public. When real interest goes up in Turkey, we don't just pay interest from the state budget, friends, the private sector pays the same interest. Today, the amount that we have set aside from our budget to interest was reduced only because of these policies, if it fell from 85 per cent to 16 to 17 per cent. Has our share of the budget gone down and the private sector gone up? Dear friends, today, in general, interest rates are reduced in total, in terms of GDP. I mean, you know how they say, if there was a rate, they'd get 20 to 25 percent of the GDP, like they used to. But it's not, right now, the real interest in both our private sector and the public sector is seriously down, and that's how it can be borrowed. So we don't have to shoot ourselves in the foot; we have to use this model more effectively, more broadly. Dear friends, our friends are obsessed with the treasure guarantee. There's no guarantee of any treasure against the debtor here. Friends from the Treasury came and explained it in detail on our commission. I'm telling you again, the treasure is in question of liquidating the project, taking over, taking over by the public.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0155par0262	I mean, the guy can't do the job.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0263	Dear friends, now, if you, a firm, even a private sector, are hiring someone, taking over the business, taking credit for the financing of that business, no, I'm not taking over this debt. What do you have to do when you say? Then you'll have to pay whatever it is that's been paid for that project by then. So there are two ways, either you're going to pay from pocket, treasure, or renegotiate the terms of the transfer agreement... Look, I'm stressing this, didn't the friends from the Treasury make it clear, fellas? The transfer agreement is made between the treasury and the financial institutions, not with the Ministry of Health. The Treasury has already stated in the contract the terms of which the debt will be taken over, and is negotiating while taking over those terms again. We're not taking over the debt, we're not guaranteeing the debt, we're not taking over the debt, we're taking over the loan, we're just taking over the loan when we're taking over the facility that was built, that's all, that's all. Friends here, it's like a treasure for nothing... Today, the treasure paid $1.2 billion to Izmit City's dam, perhaps $200 million. That's the treasure guarantee.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0156par0266	How much did he pay for the subway?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0267	So the city sells the water there, gets the money, you pay the debt here.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0156par0268	Tell me, how much was the subway paid for?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0150par0269	You'll pay your debt here. That's the treasure guarantee, he can't pay, you pay. Dear friends, this law, above all, is the most efficient way in Turkey that public health services can be done faster by the public than by the public. I wish this to be implemented at once, and to be good for our country, for the health workers, and for all our citizens, and I salute your grand delegation again and again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0157par0274	Thank you. And now Minister of Health Mehmet Muezzinoglu who wants to speak on behalf of the government over the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0158par0277	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, for the first time, as Minister of Health, I salute you from this bench, wishing you success. I hope this process will bring better services to both our country and the health community together. Of course, we share a new dimension in health care in the coming process with the community-private cooperation. We shared important discussions and talks in the plan budget dimension. Hopefully, tonight, tomorrow, until the law comes up, we'll be sharing a lot of things together. But before I enter into this process of law, I thank the Minister of Health, Professor Recep Akdağ, for his efforts and efforts in the past ten years, to improve the level of service that our country and our nation have achieved in health care, in which we have achieved this quality of service and access to service. Of course, in my opinion, the Transmutation Project in Health has been the greatest owner and supporter of all, our Prime Minister and Government. In the meantime, our Prime Minister and Government and Turkey's public opinion, 75 million countries, will increase our standard of success at the rate we can solve by sharing our people's satisfaction or problems in this sense. In this sense, we are now discussing the questions of our fellow speakers in the opposition, and when I look at some of my notes, we are talking about a law that involves risklers. It's tried, it's going to put workers out of work. It's tried, it's called going to the private sector. It's called, it's called opening to the private sector. It's called the private sector. ▪ How many city hospitals are we setting up? How much land do we give? What's the cost, what's the gain? What happens when companies leave when they can take advantage of free health? Logic, commercial thinking. You're going to enslave the workers. The Turkish Medical Association is being privatized. ▪ Instead of destroying our hospitals and replacing them with city hospitals, foreign medical equipment will be taken. (I believe that all such claims or criticisms in this sense are being made sincerely, and we have been in the process of being genuinely evaluated, and we will continue to be. But, dear friends, if we look out this window of health now alone, if we don't think about the standard of health and quality of health that our human needs to take, if we don't see the risks on that side, if we don't ignore the risks on that side, I'm sure that tomorrow you're going to talk to us about those risks again and again and again. See now, in this decade, we've shown a one-third of our patient bed capacity, despite all of our dynamics, a four-and-a-half-fold regeneration capacity compared to the previous ten-year period, but the distance we've come to renovate is only one-third. So, what's the status of the other two-thirds? At the moment, two-thirds of the time, the earthquake-threatening buildings, the 8-10-person wards, the medical technology, the hospitals that are inadequate in infrastructure, and the processes where our people see and accept the other one-third of the time. So, can we be at a point where we don't consider our people worthy or worthy of those standards? I don't think it's possible for you or for us to accept that. Now, I say to the entire hall of health, friends who are interested in health care, let's say, let's take a tour of two places, once and for all, after we leave here, or tomorrow morning because I went to Ankara Numune Hospital -- because I went to Gaziantep last week -- let's go see if we can find ways out to the late Doctor Ersin Arslan Hospital in Gaziantep, and let's say, if we honor those hospital conditions for this nation, let's say, if we continue with the conditions we have come to this day, but we really don't have to find these conditions for this nation and health workers. One of them is public-private cooperation. Our goal here is not to privatize, but to bring private understanding, health care to a point where the government and state are based. We're not privatizing health care, we're trying to create different formulas where we can find financing support to improve the standard and quality of health, and that's one of them. They have different apps in the world, costs can be calculated differently, and it could be... the cost of human care, the standard of health care... when we had an earthquake tomorrow, I experienced that earthquake the way everyone else lived in this room, a private hospital we opened eight months ago in 99 faced an earthquake. At that moment, I said one thing: I didn't have a hospital yesterday, as long as there was no death in it. Now, I'm not saying that we're going to assume that by keeping the cost, by keeping the money very ahead of us, we're going to assume that in the next five years we're going to be able to carry about 44,000, 45,000 beds, our standard of beds, some economic risks and financing responsibilities for my wife, for my daughter, but we're going to do our choice here, for saving money, or for a long time, whatever health care quality of our people. We're going to say, or we're going to take our people to the center, what I want to do, for my wife, for my daughter, for 75 million, for my child, for my desire to do it, for my daughter, and we're going to put it into the center. If we put our point of view at the center correctly, then, of course, if there are other parts after that, we'll share the negative, if there are any flaws. But let's not renew the 40,000 or 44,000 beds. If we say that this 44,000 beds can take the risk of paying the price for this nation in ten years, perhaps you or some friends can take the point where it stands, but as a government or ministry that's taken responsibility for the nation in this sense, I'd like to point out that I don't find it very right, both as a member of this nation and as a human being, to take such a risk on behalf of the nation. Now, here, health workers are being enslaved. Again, friends, we all lived in this country. I've seen a lot of one-on-one examples. Today we're short of nurses. We're short of physicians today, and today, we're almost short of our own physicians, looking for outside physicians. Today, when the Ministry of Health takes a nurse on the test, I get a little more. If she says, all the sisters will come to the Ministry. So, is slavery a privatisation of the healthcare area, or is there an understanding that brings the Ministry of Health to the center, allowing the balance or control of other areas? Today, should our people look at the comfort of private hospitals or should they volunteer to come to their hospital with the resources of their own government? So, the reviews of the Medical Room... look, we're paying a different review of the Medical Room, more and more years, and now we're paying the price. There are more physicians in this country, more physicians in this country. That's how we saw the practice in the CEC, and that's what we saw in the Medical Office and in the public opinion. Well, today, we need at least 20,000 attendings. Now, in the cards that just came in here, everyone wants a doctor. Well, where is it? Let the Medical Room bring us 20,000 specialists tomorrow, bring them 10,000 practitioners tomorrow. But, in essence, our problem will be that in the future of physical spaces, perhaps the most critical of us will be the physician, physician, physician, or nurse, nurse, nurse, nurse. But in these integrated areas, we aim to take the standard of service and efficiency of both our physician and our nurse and our health worker and our patients to the highest level. With that look, I want you to look at this law and to look at it with this look of criticism or contribution, and I thank you all, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0159par0287	Thank you. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0160par0290	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have been sworn in by the Ministry of Health on my behalf by the Bill of Law on Building, Renovating, and Service with the Public Special Co-operation Model. I salute you all. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to point out that a sentence has just come to my attention in the speech our Minister has just made. He said, "Mr. Minister, do our people want to look at the comfort of private hospitals or the comfort of their own hospitals?" Of course, first of all, public health services that are public service and the comfort of their own hospitals, which we know as a state hospital. From this word that came to my mind, Turkey, especially through public economic initiatives until the 1980s, before the AKP came to power, was a major contributor to economic development. Later, the privatisation model arrived in Turkey; public institutions started with profitable ones. Later, many profitable and large institutions were taken into the Privatisation Administration, put into harm's position, and marketed for very cheap prices. Ten years ago, I had an operation at Ibn Sina Hospital, witnessing the comfort of that hospital during those years. Now, when I go to public hospitals, when I'm gone, it's really public hospitals... where the model is accepted, the citizen, the state hospitals will be accepted, and we're being shown a view where the public hospital buildings are not being cared for or repaired, and the hospitals are starting to spill. I don't think it's right to use this as a tool. Dear friends, the essence of this bill began in the '94s, in the 2000s. First of all, it began with the addition of the seventh amendment to the Basic Law on Health Services No. 3396 in a meeting of the Republican People's Party Group, which did not participate in the 3rd of July 2005. At that time, the AKP members themselves stole, played; they gave the proposal, changed it, and added a clause. With that proposal, the AKP developed the method of building hospitals by making a lot of tenders, starting today, from the way we know it is a public-private partnership model, to the one-sided offer, to the amount of rent and rental time. The public-private partnership model is a privatisation model, a model of a concession contract, a model that resembles the recent capitalizations of the Ottomans, and I'd like to underline that very clearly. See, there are countries where this is applied. Mr. Arlen, who just spoke, even said prison is being held in Maca-Ristan. For some reason, they come up with a prison like the Prime Minister, because they need to be searched for a place to fill the citizens who will rebel against them. Dear friends, this model's first appliance is England. The Court of England says: "There is no public use in this model. " England is leaving this model. Canada never started, and other European countries didn't. Now, those countries are starting to make a U (U) turn from privatisation practices, Turkey is being activated as it flees from this model. Mr. Secretary just started this job. The architect of this business is the Minister before him, the hot advocate. Let me be very clear here, there's no public interest, no public benefit, and no good for employees. The rights of the workers will be maintained. He says, Mr. Secretary, but let him look at the definition of the price of service in Article 1 (e). Let him walk from there, let him know who is involved in State Officers Act 657, health care services and health care services, how it covers all the way from the professor doctor to the doctors, to nurses, to the assistant health staff, and... here I read the sentence when everyone who knows how to read and read the sentence is paid to the contractor by the administration and is updated by the term-market assessment, so that it will be rented from the contractor. Dear friends, since our time is short, I don't want to talk about a lot of negatives about this law. But in this model, the government will pay rent on the land of treasure in exchange for the buildings it has built for the contractor. That's twenty-five years, thirty years -- the government's bill was not to exceed nine years, we changed it in the commission -- the contractor is almost -- I don't say too much -- by raising it a little bit -- and he's going to be able to get all his expenses back for three or five years' rent. In this case -- my friends have just told me -- all kinds of subsidiaries, all kinds of services will belong to the contractor, and you'll be renting it. So no public property. We will cleanse ourselves of repairs, care, repair services. If you pull the government out of the healthcare area -- you'll apply it in the field of education tomorrow -- if you pull the government out of the field of education, you start in transport, and if you start in security tomorrow, why do you need to become a state? What are the government's duties, what are its responsibilities, shouldn't you look at them? See, what you're saying is that within your bill: the loader must have self-inflicted capital to cover 20 per cent of the cost. He's going to owe me on the outside. There's no guarantee of treasure, you say. Mr. Barber said something wrong back there. It's guaranteed treasure, and then... so even if you put 20 percent of it in capital, it would have to be worth at least 100-150 million. Now, when you, as AKP, go to court as a minimum wage worker or a poor citizen, you will receive $700 lira in tuition when you go to any government office; you will exempt those of at least 80-100 million, you will exempt them from the stamp tax, you will exempt them from VAT. Dear friends, this is called a privatisation model, a transfer of resources from public to private to secondary.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0161par0301	The government pays the VAT.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0160par0302	It should be seen so clearly and clearly. See, dear friends, President of the Central Council of Turkish Medicines, Mr. Aktan says that based on the results of the countries in which it is observed, everyone whose heart and conscience favours man and society says: Public-private partnership is harmful to healthcare, and it is harmful to the health worker and the health care provider. I mean, it's so obvious. Now, against the Union of Turkish Medicines, against all opposition parties, against healthcare workers, against their organisations, against trade unions, against the countries that enforce this work; one AKP, the model country -- let me say very sorry -- is trying to ruthlessly implement this model in health care to make Turkey use it as a guinea pig. Dear friends, it's a profit wherever it comes from. The public private partnership model is a model of domestic, foreign side transfer of state's resources, state's, public's assets to private areas, when there is nothing left to sell in Turkey. It will not do any good to the country or to the citizen or to the patient or to those who serve it. The bill must be blocked. I invite all patriotic, healthy lawmakers to say no. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0162par0305	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0163par0308	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a specialist who has come to the last year of his service is paid $2,300, and $1,580 is paid for return capital, which can increase a sum of capital due to working scores. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, the lack of medical school professors who have a practice can't intervene in medical school hospitals removes the patient's right to choose a doctor and reduces the quality of medical education. This sometimes leads to disparaging practices, such as interfering with some patients with special leave. You know, for example, I don't give names. Do you intend to do a study to get him out of this situation where the health sector is being reduced? You've just thanked the former Minister, and can you make any references to this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0164par0311	Thank you. Mr. Köse... no. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0165par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is a request for a full-fledged hospital for the people of Beautybahçe, in the area of 16,000 square meters, which is reserved as a hospital in the municipality's zoning plan in Yüzlbahçe district of İzmir. However, we have learned from the press that a major hospital, such as breast, oncology or rehabilitation hospital, has been decided instead of a full-fledged hospital, to be built in this area. The people of the district of Bellabahçe want to build a full hospital in this area. How do you feel about that as a health department? Where are the developments?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0164par0316	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0166par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it is said that İstanbul University's Çapa Medical Faculty Hospital and the Surgerypaşa Medical Faculty Hospital, which you have graduated from, will be removed from the city. Do you have a project like this? As far as I know, there is now a renovation project under way. If it is to be moved, how do you intend to assess these places with the most valuable plots in the city? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0167par0321	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0168par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. We'd like to know from the Minister that their contribution to health is a very heavy burden on the low-income. Can you at least consider removing the health contributions to pensioners? My second question is, is it within the law to build another hospital when there's a need for these hospitals to be built tomorrow in three or five years? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0169par0327	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0170par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with the Metropolitan Law, 16,082 villages have been transformed into neighborhoods. Will the health homes in these villages continue to serve or be shut down? Again, with the Metropolitan Law, the municipality of 1.591 is closed. Will the health clinics in these cities be closed or will they continue to serve? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0171par0333	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0172par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, congratulations on your ministry. I'd like to ask a question as a government. Using the Turkish word in practice was almost a crime. Yet, Ataturk, my only honorary in life, my wealth is nothing more than Turkishness. This country was Turkish, probably Turkish, and will live forever as a Turk. We are so nationalists, we respect every nation that cooperates with us. If we want the world to pay tribute to us, let us first show this respect for our own self and nationality, with all our actions and actions, with all our feelings, ideas, and actual actions. Let us know that nations who do not find their national self are the prey of other nations. The Prime Minister's failure to mention the name of this nation while speaking of a single nation, immediately referring to it as a subdivision of Turkishism, we have put all sorts of nationalism under the table. The statement of Ataturk, Turkic, Turkish nation and nationalism opposes the rhetoric. Moreover, what does it mean for our Constitution to make such a statement when the 2nd Amendment and the MP's oath are in the middle? What are you turning the government into? You want to destroy it?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0173par0339	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0174par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, first of all, good luck with your new assignment. Now, Mr. Secretary, the Iğdır State Hospital is in a mess. Their machine is very old, and when a machine breaks down, its repair takes at least a month and two months. Of course, this piece of shit at Iğdır State Hospital, it's not just about cleaning up, it's about the bidding shit. The AKP Mayor of the Province is there to draw up documents from tenders, knowingly disintegrating the Iğdır businessmen and allowing other citizens from the southeast to take the lead in other people's tenders. Please help the Iğdır people, please don't let the ethnic balance of Iğdır. Don't let it be done through hospitals. The Iğdır people didn't give you permission in the elections, never again in the elections... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... you will not even enter Iğdır.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0175par0347	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0176par0349	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to learn something: a hospital is being built in Kayseri, and it's being built in a remote area, where transportation is difficult, but I'm curious about the price of the tender. How much was the bid? Can you explain that?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0175par0351	Thank you. Mr. Agha... Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0177par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the hospital, which served as a 110-bed SEC Regional Hospital in the District of Borakka in Artvin Province in 1989, serves at Borakka with 130 beds starting in 2005. In this hospital, although our Borakka district has a large population, as of now -- I've just arrived from my constituency, and I've tried to reach you, but I haven't been able to reach you -- general surgeon, obstetrician, obstetrician and pediatrician. Due to the absence of these physicians in the district, our citizens in the district of Borkunka, in particular -- our citizens in Murgul, are also taking advantage of the same place -- are deeply victimized. Do you intend to take any precautions to compensate for the lack of attendings in our hospital? Do you have any government work on this? If you have such a work, do you intend to announce it to our fellow citizens from the Assembly of the Great Nation, in debt, in Murgul, in Artvin?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0178par0357	Thank you. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0179par0359	Mr. Secretary, you said the biggest problem with your speech is that he needs a doctor. And in your recent statements to the press, you said that you would make an intense effort to win our professors back with the Full Day Law. Do you want us to understand this as a self-referencing of the Full - Day Law? Do you have no responsibility for this medical deficit in a ten-year period because of the policies imposed by the AKP's government so far? Will you make sure that the doctors return to their duties to serve their patients as soon as possible? Do you have any legal work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0178par0361	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0180par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, during your speech, you gave an example of two hospitals: one Ankara Numune Hospital and one Gaziantep Ersin Arslan Hospital. Is the meat hospital in the same condition? The same is true of the Ethics Hospital. Can we say that it is old and needs to be renovated? Or can we say that about 37 other hospitals? 43.193 beds to be renovated. So, how many hospitals and beds are we renovating? Can you give me a number on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0181par0366	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0182par0368	Mr. Secretary, the reason for the bill that we're talking about is that hospitals should be built with a make-up-arrest financial model, one of the public and private co-operation models for the presentation of quality, efficient and effective healthcare services. However, Mr. Secretary, you've just arrived at the post, but do you know that some of our state-owned hospitals are not working and are closed? For example, the hospital, doctor, facility and technology in Haymana district of Ankara is not fully operational due to its extremely beautiful and modern lack of technology. The status of the Bala State Hospital has been reduced and has been placed on top of the health clinic. It's much worse in the town of the Universe. I'm afraid the hospital that was built in the District of the Universe has been shut down. So in a state-made environment where hospitals are closed, isn't that a freak and a contradiction?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0181par0369	Thank you. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0183par0371	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is there any other country outside Turkey that guarantees treasure? If they say there is, let friends respond by looking at the 2011 report of the European Centre for Special Partnership for Public Partnership. And second of all, was this just asked, has the Court of the Ethlik Hospital been closed before it was expected? It is said that a new building has been rented for 380,000 liras. Is that correct? Another question is, in this report, I said that the DPT (DPT) has a previous proposal for you, in the expert thesis. Are you looking at these or considering them? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0184par0376	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0185par0378	I must have missed the last part of the question. I didn't get the last part of your question, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0186par0379	If you can answer their heads, we'll agree. I said, are you looking at them?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0185par0380	Doesn't it bother you, Mr. Serindağ, that a physician who has reached the end of his work and received a salary of $2,300 and a return of about 1,500 dollars? Obviously, I believe it would be right to study formulas that can regulate the return capital-paying balance by considering this with the finances in the coming period, but if you say the process is tomorrow, it's not very possible, I can say that we're going to do a study on the process.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0187par0382	Neither is retirement, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0185par0383	Yeah, I'm already saying that it's important for the retirement part, or when you look at salary plus return capital, I don't really think there's an extraordinary problem in terms of the month-end salary that our physicians are averaged for today, but when you say it's a reflection of the retirement process, I agree with you in that sense, and I think there should be an adjustment study. Mr. Türeli, instead of a full-fledged hospital... Now, if you'd like me to take a look at that, Izmir Güzelbahçe, and then I'll get back to you as information. According to friends, since it's very close to the city, there's been an idea that we might consider a specific hospital for another purpose, but we'll let you know his final situation later. In that sense, of course, these are the hospitals of universities, but that's not on our agenda. Right now, I think the Faculty of Surgery is already preparing renovations in its place. So there is no saving us for this, neither in Chapa, nor in Surgery. There, we try to give it to Istanbul University's own assessments if there is any support for us. True: Can you consider the removal of contributions in health care? Why, now, is the main part of the contribution to health care, to contribute to health payments from here. Rather than here, it is considered a mechanism for self-control. Because there's no contribution to going to our family physicians, but in the process after that, there are measures in this sense to control the system and to ensure the efficiency of the system. So while we're re-analyzing this system, some new regulations may be considered, but in this sense... so I'd like to say that we don't have a different opinion on these shares at the moment. If a new hospital is needed next to the city hospitals, will it be subject to the law? We think that if the ministry decides which model of financing will be the need for the new one, if it decides to be done with a public-private cooperation model, it will be able to make a tender model again. Mr. Erdogan, there is no such thing as closure, but the planning of their dynamic services will be assessed, of course, but there is no closure. Mr. Oğan, of course we'll review the Iğdır State Hospital. I'd like you to take your claims to the law, as you've carried them to us. We do our part in both political and administrative terms, but as we enter every project in the country, we enter Iğdur with our heads held high, our foreheads open, and we continue to enter. Do not hesitate to do so. Yes, Mr. Halaçoglu, you have something to do with hospital transport in Kayseri, but your main question is, what is the bid for the city hospital? Mr. Flagtutan, Artvin - Debtka, here it comes again. General surgery, eyes, obstetrics... so, we're currently suffering from general surgery, anesthesia, internalization. New, as of yesterday, we gave birth to Artvin. In all, we are sending seven experts, one practitioner and seven experts to Artvin, as of today or yesterday. Moroglu said, "Don't you lack anything about the need for a doctor?" Yeah, well, the additional staff didn't, despite all the government's demands, due to the fact that the SEC medical faculty had fixed their staff four or five years ago, but in the last four years, 2,500, now, we're getting an average of 4,500 students from medical school today, and we're getting about 9,500 students from medical school today. You'll appreciate the return of a medical school student to the service of this Turkish nation, as an expert, ten years from now. So, to close our deficit in this sense, the 30,000 digits that we've pronounced, there'll probably be a relief in the next 15 years, but when that fifteen years later' needs are added that day, we'll probably talk about Turkey's most medical deficit and the problem of attendings in the coming period. From time to time, we will experience the balance between cities or the balance between us and demand. I think we're going to have to deal with this as a problem, which is much more important than hospital, bed service. He's doing technical commission evaluations on hospitals that will be destroyed or evacuated, so a decision is being made. Yes, we serve with one family physician... since Mr. Gökykün has a population of 2,200 on the scale of the hospital. Yeah, I mean, we probably started these problems today, and we're going to be sharing them all the time in the future. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, well, we're out of time.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0188par0400	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'd like it to be passed on to...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0189par0403	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit04spe0188par0404	...I'll submit to your votes, I'll look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the decision is accepted. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0188par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 417. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 14th article. "Cemalett Simsek, Samsun MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on chapter one."
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0190par0008	Mr. President, I'm here to present you with the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the first chapter of the Law Bill on Building, Renovating, and Service by the Ministry of Health. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, this law, which is being discussed, organises the construction, renovation and service of a public-private health facility. The general reason for this law is that the health care service can't be paused, cannot be abandoned, and can't be placed in place; it is intended to modernise and modernise the quality, efficient and effective health care presentation of facilities with the building-private financial model, one of the public private co-operation models. When the provisions of this law are assessed, it opens the way for the hospital campus to be built into the private sector and to be rented to the state for twenty-five to thirty years, as well as to the lease of commercial areas within the hospital and even all hospital services to the contractor. In addition, these hospitals are now being closed down while they are being built on the treasures of our cities. So there won't be any increase in patient beds, perhaps even reduced, the presentation of health care will be given by the same physician, the same nurse, the same assistant medical staff, only the physical area will be more modernized. A public-private partnership with public hospital troops, which began with the Change Programme in Health, will lead to the summit of the commercialisation of health. You want samples? Public hospital units are pressuring public hospital secretaries to operate in hospital-related hospitals, to increase your business transactions and revenues. Mr. Ali Babacan, who is in charge of the treasure, is being discussed with him on the subject of mouth and dental care. Let me explain how much money will come out of the treasure. Tell me that. I leave it to you to appreciate the importance of revealing how health care is maintained during the AKP period. Dear lawmakers, when you have reviewed health care within the Health Change Programme for the past ten years, patient satisfaction has increased in health, from these 40 percent to 70 percent, even to 80 percent, and the patient application has increased from 2 to 8 percent in quantity. As this number of applications rose, qualified health care was not provided. Due to the increasing number of applications for patients, SGO costs and deficits have increased day by day. The number of service buyers has only increased numerically, the ease of access to a physician has deceived him as a health care service. Basically, those who don't know the subject, who don't need to know, who don't know about the presentation of health care have been misled by the presentation of health care. During this period, the peace of working in hospitals has been broken, especially with health care servers, especially physicians, victims, stubbornly misperforming systems. There used to be money between physicians and patients, and now there's a point. Compared to countries developed in terms of patient application in Turkey, we have fewer doctors, nurses, and patients per capita, and we have three times the number of doctors compared to Sweden. Two of the three patients in Sweden do not go to the doctor or 2/3 of us are not sick. I think in these two groups, hospital satisfaction is 100 percent. If so, there is a 28 percent satisfaction rate for real patients who have already gone to the doctor. In general, public spending in university hospitals from 2002 to 2009 increased by 3 floors, 5 floors in public hospitals, 12 times in private hospitals. Under the Health Transformation Programme, research hospitals have returned to service hospitals. In particular, education and scientific studies should not be the goal of financial profiting and commercial business in practice and research centres. However, the most basic output of this Health Transformation Project and performance system is to increase the consumption of health care and health technology, whether it is in the form of creating real or artificial demand. Today, issues such as waiting in line, failing to reach the drug, paying a doctor at the practice, receiving the difference of professors at university hospitals are off the agenda, instead of growing up like an avalanche of social security institution financial deficits, high medical contributions from pharmacies, university hospitals who can't pay their debts. At this point, health services in our country are no longer satisfied with health care servers as well as service buyers. As a result, due to the programme that has been implemented since 2003, quantitative health care and social security expenditures have increased, rather than protective health care has come to the attention of treatment services, and the return of university hospitals has become unsustainable. Dear lawmakers, the increase in health-development initiatives, artificial patient satisfaction and health expenditures are unfortunately not reflected in quality of health care today, and the government's scarce resources have been wasted. This desired public-private partnership does not change the logic of the presentation of health services. However, the fact that health services go up from the bottom of a system, along with patient information and findings, will provide more efficient health care and more affordable health care. The system is deceiving patients, alienating health care servers, and, unfortunately, blocking a self-safe health care presentation. Indeed, when we look at the operating logic of these public-private hospitals, there is no difference in public hospitals that have been maintained and run by general secretaries so far. Unfortunately, it does not contribute to health care, both locally and in terms of the closure of today's hospitals. These services are carried out under the same conditions as today, with the same patient bed capacity and the same staff. It's kind of hard to understand the logic of why new hospitals are being made again, again, again, by bidding, by bidding. You know, new hospitals increase the number of new patients or patient capacity, and then we understand the logic of that, but it's not very likely to understand the logic of taking services by shutting down a hospital and opening another hospital. I salute you all with this occasion.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0191par0023	Thank you. Rahmi Türeli of Love, İzmir MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0192par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment by Health Ministry 417 to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Law Bill on Building, Renewal and Service Model. I salute your high council. Dear friends, now we're talking about this public-special cooperation model. It's a model that's already been in place with the do-and-do forms, and first of all, it's concentrated in the areas of transport and energy. Now, this is a model called dol-kirala-Devret, which is now being brought in with this bill, and we see that it is also intended to be brought up in health and education. Here's the thing: public infrastructure investments are done by the government, by the public, almost everywhere in the world. So, there are certain infrastructure investments, which are separated as physical infrastructure, social infrastructure. In particular, education and health care, which we call social infrastructure investments, health investments are carried out by the public, by the state in almost all countries around the world. It's also a responsibility to be a social government. The private sector, of course, is in the model, and the private sector is going to invest, not just in public investments, public investments, services. However, the logic here is that the public is expected to specialize in infrastructure investments, and the private sector is expected to focus on sectors that are what we call foreign trade, which are facing increasing production and exporting. So, in other words, there is a complementary relationship between public investments and private investments, and it is also known that increasing public investments has increased the rate of growth in the economy, potential production, potential output, and increased the economy to higher growth speeds. Now, of course, when it came to the agenda, and especially in health care, when the public wanted to hand over the responsibility of investing infrastructure to the private sector with this model, I thought I'd take a look at the numbers. Here's the thing, dear friends: between 2002 and 2011 during the AKP period -- the figures of 2012 have not been finalised -- the percentage of public fixed capital investments has dropped in national revenue. When the AKP came to power in 2002, 4.9 per cent of public investments fell to 4.1 per cent in 2011. So -- public investments are monitored in the 10th sector division -- by the Ministry of Development -- if we look at the percentage of health in 2002, it was 5.1 per cent, reduced to 5 per cent in 2011. Another view is that public health investments, public health investments, are part of the gross domestic product within the national income. When we look at it that way, in 2002, it was three in a thousand, and in 2011 it was reduced to two in a thousand. Dear friends, we're talking about a two-point figure in a thousand, so it's possible that the withdrawal of the public from these areas is true in these numbers, so let's not increase public budget deficits, there'll be a budget deficit. The public's abandonment of infrastructure investments is also bringing the private sector into this area rapidly and reducing the potential growth rate of the economy. Another thing: Mr. Secretary knows this very well, and we said in the past Minister and the present Minister, we said, "What would it cost if he had made this investment public, or taken it into the public investment program?" How much will it cost with the public-special cooperation model? Unfortunately, we haven't seen that comparison, dear friends, but we need to see that comparison. Law number 5018 has regulatory impact analysis. There is a need for this regulatory effect analysis to know what laws are, what laws are, what they are, and what they are taking, not only in the short term, but in the middle and long term, what they bring in and what they bring in. However, despite our insistence, we understand that this does not bring this to our attention, that such a regulatory impact analysis has not been done in this bill. It's a huge flaw, and the laws are ineffective. Another issue is the comparison of the fixed amount of investment and the total rent price. Look, we insisted on the commission again, so let's look at it as mutual, and see what it costs. The last time they gave us numbers on a Kayseri City Hospital, we had a little discussion about it. And that's what we see, dear friends: right now there's a fixed investment price, so it's no longer public with the bid, you open a tender to the private sector, you give it to a contractor, he does it, you don't get any money out of your pocket. But then what happens? You're paying him rent with up to 30 years. Is there a model like that, guys? I mean, there's money coming out of your pockets here, but it's not coming out right now. So you have to do this comparison: What comparison does that fixed capital investment show when you add up the rent costs today for 30 years? And what we see here, unfortunately, is that rent prices increase the price of fixed investments four to five times. Here, in economics, there's a rule called the value rule of today. In fact, when you make an investment, you connect it there, you can't connect it to other places; otherwise if you go with it, you invest it in the bank, you get money from it. In that sense, with a certain interest rate, with a certain discount rate, you'll bring that money to today. Is that what we call it? And it's not because if the rents were fixed, it would have been increased, but unfortunately it's said that it's the end of the cycle every three months -- that's three months -- that's what we've been told -- it's going to increase the price of the TFE average. At the same time, when the exchange rate increases pass, the exchange rate increases are added to the rent price. Now, dear friends, look, we all know the economic history of Turkey. Turkey is a country that has been in crisis at intervals for four or five years or six years. The economy has structural problems, the economy grows four or five years in a row, then suddenly it's the year of serious recession, the year of crisis, and that shows itself in foreign currency. The exchange rate is suddenly doubled. If you'd like, dear friends, in 2000, it was $624,000 for $1.24,000, and in 2001, it went up to $1.225, so it went up 100 percent. I mean, if a model like this had been applied during that period, the rent price would have increased by 100 percent, as much as the TFE, the TFE, the average of the two, as much as the average of the two. Is it possible to accept such a thing? Dear friends, what kind of model is this, what kind of pricey thing? And anyway, you're raising the rent, and then when you add up the rent prices, you look at it fixedly from today, and you assume that it doesn't change at all, and then there's some serious difference. Of course, it's a big, serious problem. Another inconvenience, treasure guarantees, dear friends. This model creates a conditional obligation through treasury guarantees. The conditional obligation means that you have no obligation at the moment, but when certain conditions occur, that obligation will be revealed, and the treasure will guarantee it. I mean, there's no increase in budget deficits today, but in the future -- which, in any way, there's a lot of talk, friends, two years, three years, not five years -- the treasure will guarantee that when there's a problem. Finance literature has an intergenerational budgeting approach. So, you're putting future generations, our children, our grandchildren in debt like this, and you're putting them in a debt that we don't know what's going to happen because every time it happens, there's going to be a situation of crisis that's going to rise in debt like this. Let me make one last point, and then... we're running out of time. Dear friends, there are a lot of things to be said about this, but the point is that when it comes to the Treasury guarantee -- you know, I was a subcommittee, and then we discussed it in detail in the Supreme Commission -- now, look, there's a contractor, let's say he gets the contract. What's the contractor gonna do with it? He's going to go, he's going to borrow some of it from the outside, because we're talking big numbers. He's going to borrow money from a foreign bank. Would the foreign bank lend him money if it weren't for this treasure guarantee? Maybe he won't, maybe he won't like the project, maybe he won't, but when you give him a treasure guarantee, he'll give it to you, because there's nothing that the foreign bank, the loanor there, will lose; when he can't pay it, the treasure will come in, and he'll pay it back to the end, dear friends. Such a bill is unacceptable. It's expanding its vast scope, handing over the basic areas that the public needs to do, the infrastructure fields, to the private sector with a model like this. For these reasons, I repeat that we are against this bill. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0193par0043	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on chapter one, İdris Baluken, Bingol MP.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0194par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the proposed law. I salute your committee. In fact, we've been trying to bring up a general philosophy about health, a general paradigm, as much as possible from this platform, but unfortunately, we haven't been able to do that until today. We're dealing with AKP practices that quickly bring health into the market, that go to privatisation in health and make health a meta, and this bill is actually a bill, a proposal that can be called the final of this current process. Of course, we're discussing an important proposal here, but if we look at what phases this proposal went through before the General Assembly came, we can see that this was not discussed in the Health Commission. It's a huge inadequacy. It's not acceptable. Our orator friends, who were just speaking here, have also expressed that as of June, the Health Commission is not actively functioning. There are a number of different reasons. I mean, we had a valued Commissioner, but the Commission's work has long been seriously failing because our Commissioner is more interested in the Prime Minister's private health problems than in the Commission's work. Of course, leaving that reason aside, it was not discussed in the Health Commission because of its busy work. I want to stress that there's nothing acceptable about this. Now, basically, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we think that health should be a necessary public service that should be given by the state, because that is the need to be a social state. In the Constitution, the state of the Republic of Turkey is defined as a social state. So as public service, we think that giving health care to everyone is the most important part of the state's original tasks, to be available, qualified, free, equal, and native. Of course, when we look at health care or look at a health plan, there are two basic things. One: What does the current arrangement predict for public good? Second: What does the provision predict in terms of public health? Regarding these two issues, processes related to public-private partnerships that have so far been assessed in this proposal of the law have been brought to trial by TTB, and the court has decided many times to stop running on the grounds of public harm that it has done here. Although Mr. Prime Minister tried to justify this as an obstacle to the principle of separation of forces, it is not true, because when we look at the reactions of relevant unions, related trade organisations, health workers, health workers' experience in the practical field, we can very clearly say that the proposal for this law, as we say, does not bring much in terms of public interest. We're not against building a new hospital. New hospitals must be made in accordance with needs, but hospitals should be based on scientific purpose and purpose to deliver services to the patient rather than commercial purpose. After the technical equipment, the medical equipment, the equipment needed for personnel, the construction of hospitals that are suitable for the city and the environment, and giving medical services to these hospitals are some of the country's most important requirements. Especially since our Minister of Health has just begun, we'd like to give him a few warnings from this bench again. It increases problems day after day by day, with the incumbent Health Transformation Programme, with all its privatizing and privatizing practices that bring the pain prescription to the public. Look, we've set up a violent commission for the physician, and we've tried to listen to almost all of the social aspects as much as possible during these commissions. There's only one thing that stands out here: the Change in Health Program is shown as the source of all health problems, in its current state, to the physician, for violence. So, today, during the work of this commission, what social parties, trade unions or employees, violent physicians, health workers, most of all they're suffering from is their share of the study, their turnout, their part of the drug-related financial relationship, the zone applications in emergency services. All of this, this is the painful prescription phase of the Change in Health Programme, and especially for our people and for the health worker at this time, unfortunately, it brings with it very serious problems. Of course, the friends who worked for the Plan Budget Commission did more economic evaluations. We're not going to get into that much, but a few things have come to my attention. Now, when we look at the data from TTB, we see a public debt of $50 billion in 25 years for 13 tenders. I mean, it's a terrible number. Again, according to TTB (TTB) data, the number of fixed investments in 8 tenders is set at about 3 billion 850 million. However, the company, which received the tender in 25 years, was expected to receive 26 billion and 500 million rents. So the amount of rent to be paid is 8 times the amount of fixed investment, not acceptable. On the other hand, it's not just limited to the rent price, it's a financial relationship. After this proposal of the law, which will be passed on to the private sector as the service price, from imaging to the laboratory, from information processing to cleaning, from the mess hall. We are strongly opposed to all health care being given to the private sector in this way. We've experienced some very serious consequences in the practical field as well. For example, Mr. Minister, perhaps not, but the former Minister of Health knows very well -- we have repeatedly expressed the status of Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital. Diyarbakır was first closed in Diyarbakır, then Diyarbakır Göts Hospital, then Diyarbakır State Hospital one by one, and Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital opened on Ergani road. All our concerns about these processes at that time -- I, as a physician working there -- were reported to the Ministry of Health, but none of them were taken into consideration, and it was done: The opening process of a new hospital was activated with the closing of three hospitals, so technical equipment, medical equipment, staff employment, was transferred to Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital via the resources of three closed public hospitals. Here's the situation: there are four hospitals that are 20 kilometers apart, connected to a single Chief of Medicine. 1 Chief Medical Officer, Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital is trying to run the Chief of Medicine to four hospitals. Of course, the health scandals, the victims that have arisen, have put the people of Diyarbakir to shame. You have closed down a single breast hospital that provides health care for 5 million people in the region while closing only Diyarbakır Chest Hospital. Lung cancer, tuberculosis, KOAH, asthma, mesothelioma are common in the region. We also met with the Minister of Health at the time, and we told him about the victims the region would suffer if this breast hospital was closed; he told us that there would be a 100-bed breast hospital within Education and Research Hospital as soon as possible, and I want to point out that there is still no evidence of that breast hospital. Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital -- correct -- was built at a five-star hotel comfort, but as it opened, it came in as a hospital without a canteen, without an admissible wall, without a defibrillator in its service, and patients had to travel for miles and miles to get water, and they had to come back because there were no canteens. Patients died because there were no defibrillators. Even though we delivered all this, nothing was done. And today, the state of the Diyarbakir Education and Research Hospital, which opened in a hurry, is pathetic. There's 20 elevators, there's not a single elevator that works properly from 20 elevators, and since these elevators don't work, the patient who has to go to the ICU is waiting for two or three hours. All of these are life-threatening neglects that could cost human life. Again, at Education and Research Hospital, when it rains, everything from laundry, mess hall to morgue, nuclear medicine is flooded. There's decomposition in the colons, and we have a serious concern that this hospital will collapse in the first earthquake. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not five stars, it's seven stars, and if you open hospitals like this, it's useless. So far, Mr. Secretary, we've been wondering if you've conducted any investigation into the firm that built this hospital, if you've sent the Department of Health officials to that hospital right now. That's what we brought up in the question motion. In particular, I think the most important living creature for this five-star hotel story in front of us is, for example, Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0195par0062	Thank you. Reşat Right, the Slap MP who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0196par0065	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have taken a personal pledge from the Ministry of Health, 417 rows, to build a Public Special Co-operation Model, to renovate, and to receive services. I salute the High Council. Sure, we're negotiating a new law. ▪ Is this law fully discussed? We agree that it is not exactly discussed. No debate on the Health Commission, but after the Plan was discussed in the Budget Commission, it was brought in fast and legal. This bill aims to build new health facilities in city centers, private companies, of course, 1,000 - 2,000 -- 3,000 -- whatever -- with beds. Once the bill is passed, various buildings around hospital buildings, various plugins, and all services, particularly public-special partnerships, will be taken into the hands of foreign, foreign investors, and trusts from outside. The privatisations of public-private partnerships will provide health care while companies will earn money from various side areas, such as the parking lot with them, the hotel. So when it's looked at, of course, there's a saying that there's going to be new hospitals with the law, there's going to be new possibilities, but when you think about it, it's kind of hard to understand how ethical it is to give these hospitals to private sector institutions for 30 years, to put them under their control, to make them earn money. So it's hard to understand, of course, whether other models could have been created, or other techniques, or other methods, that we couldn't have built hospitals like this. Members of parliament, it is a fact that, of course, new hospitals are being built in large cities, especially in large cities such as Kayseri and Ankara, Istanbul, to replace the existing hospitals. Of course, one of the goals is that there's earthquakes or new hospitals, and there's better wards, or new possibilities. But here, of course, you'd think, what would be the place of the old hospitals? What will be replaced by these hospitals, or who will be given these places? After that, when these hospitals are built again, these hospitals will be rented by the government and given a certain amount of money. Of course, what will happen in the services he has given or received? In this one, as far as we can see right now, the labs will be privatized or the X-ray service will be privatized, maybe the mess halls will be privatized. After that, it will privatise all of the other services, and the government, in this way, will have paid for all of the private sector, all of these institutions. Only the staff may belong to him, but he will transfer funds to the private sector as a result of all services being taken out of personnel. Of course, you can't help but think that, of course, here, taxes are being collected from poor people and poor people, and from these tax collections, resources are being transferred here. I mean, I'm wondering if this is the kind of law that's being brought in here to make money for some of these places, and I'm wondering if that's the kind of thing we're thinking about. Of course, valuable lawmakers, we also have to think about what comes to the staff or what kind of services come to the people, given that law. Right now, all the people who work in the Ministry of Health or in health are in very big trouble. Our Minister has just been appointed. Of course, Mr. Secretary has faced many problems with his appointment. In particular, we face a situation of violence against health workers and physicians in the community. How will violence be resolved to the physician? There are some ideas that need to be produced, but in addition to that, especially our physicians, our health workers, from nurse to nurse, and from assistant service, everyone is in a great deal of trouble at the point of living. The wages they receive are not enough, especially the lack of pensions for people who have worked for years and pensions. We see that some of the friends we know very well are almost retired, and they're back in business, and they're back in business. That's why we specifically ask Mr. Secretary to work on some historical issues. One of them is the regulation of the rights of our physicians or health workers. Edit the rights of the essence. Let's bring in a system where they're all evaluated and paid in real terms, from retirement to other studies, from duty services. See, now, here, with the city hospitals, can we give these citizens, these brothers, our colleagues, a full share of the return capital?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0197par0075	Yes, thank you. Mustafa Baloglu has been asked to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0198par0078	Mr. President, I have made a pledge from the Ministry of Health on the first chapter of the Bill of Law on Building, Renovating, and Service with the Public Special Co-operation Model. I salute your committee. The public-private cooperation model, which aims to increase the efficiency of public services by exploiting the skills of the private sector in business and management, also brings many advantages. We can sort out these benefits from the public-special cooperation: the ability to provide new additional funding resources, to provide advanced technology transfer according to the nature of the project, to lighten the burden on the public investment budget, to reduce the infrastructure deficit as projects are planned more quickly compared to public projects. The public-private cooperation model, as you can see from these articles, is the establishment of an investment or service that falls into the public's field of duty by means of the company, which will be loaded with investment and business costs and in return for investment. Health investments are one of the areas in which public-special cooperation model and private entrepreneurs can be funded. The bill that we're talking about aims to modernise and modernise the construction-private financial model of the facilities needed for the quality, efficient and effective health care presentation, one of the public-private cooperation models. In this model, facilities built by the contractor are supposed to be rented for up to 30 years and transferred to the Ministry of Health at the end of the time. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, the total number of beds available in our country is 193,477. With this model, our Ministry of Health aims to increase this figure to 230,048. Thus, the number of beds for 10,000 will rise from 26 to 31. When we look around the world, these numbers are around here. In England, there are 30 beds for 10,000, and 35 in Italy. Targeted by the model of public-special partnership, it is to make all our hospitals modern and qualified for the vision of our government in 2023. The total number of beds belonging to the Ministry of Health is 107,307, as of 2002. In 2012, the figure increased to 122,000. In 2002, a qualified patient bed was 9 per cent, while in 2012, it increased to 39 per cent. We still need 74,000 beds to be renovated and qualified. With budget opportunities, these beds will take about 25 years to regenerate. However, 30,000 beds were planned in classical ways to reach their goal of a 74,000-qualified patient bed. The remaining 44,000 beds are required to provide new funding. The public private partnership model is a method for the public to acquire an investment or investment service group through financing from the private sector. To be more specific, our Ministry of Health is to build modern city hospitals that are compatible with human-focused service, providing large-scale integrated service opportunities in the districts of the region that it has set up as a priority based on health care zone planning. With this model, the goal is to get investments into the service earlier. Because in classical methods, the public and private cooperation model has the same fixed investment cost, while in classical methods, investments are long extended and delayed. With this model, the employment regime of staff working within the Ministry does not change. In addition, the working environments will improve and the working security will be strengthened. City hospitals with a public-special cooperation model will provide many new developments, convenience and benefits. We can list them as follows: Health care will be increased. The health care needs of society will be easily met with adequate bed capacity using new technologies to diagnose and treat new technologies. They're going to have less time to rest on the care of patients, all the services that are needed in an integrated way within the same campus, the number of patients will drop, the inter-patient transport will decrease, the patient's safety will increase, and so, the patient's satisfaction will increase. Again, healthy living centres, social areas will be created for employees to meet their needs, creating ergonomic and comfortable working spaces, thus increasing employee security, job ease and satisfaction. This will improve your health care performance. This model, which will be built by modern city hospitals with a sense of human-oriented service, is a very useful way to provide public facilities in the short term using private sector resources. I wish this law to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0199par0087	Thank you. The question-answer process will take 15 minutes. Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0200par0090	Mr. Secretary, I've just spoken, Turkish banking currently has $17 to 20 billion in foreign currency money -- except for the free exchange of foreign currency, the reciprocal at the Central Bank and its accounts at the Central Bank -- except abroad. If it is necessary for the Turkish bankers to provide us... on Article 8/A, which is added to Article 13/A, there is a condition such as being provided from outside a home. Let's make this a little bit more clear: let's not throw contractors into the laps of foreign banks. Come, if necessary, a Turkish bank will also take over the consortium, so long as you bring in foreign currency... if you'll be so kind... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Talk to the treasure, the Turkish bankers are uncomfortable here. You need to be clear on that.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0199par0093	Thank you. Mr. Günal... Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0201par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the 500-bed state hospital, which started ten years ago in the Kütahya province centre and was placed at a certain point until two years ago, has been interrupted, unfortunately, last year, when a change of venue was brought up to the final stage. And right now, there's a lot of work going on with the residential supply. Is there any chance that this investment, which has not been brought to Kütahya during your administration for ten years, will be recently acquired? Is it possible that after this amendment, after this law is in effect, the hospital in question will be able to do so again with a public-special cooperation partnership, and what is your opinion on that? Second: After the Simav earthquake on May 19, 2011... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...some blocks of Simav State Hospital have been evacuated. What are the chances of this hospital being built?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0202par0101	Thank you. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0203par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this bill we're discussing, we're talking about this do-retrial-development model that we're setting up. This includes the construction of 37 hospitals and the renovation of about 43,000 beds. I'd like to ask you right now: what is the total cost size of 37 hospitals that are being done now, which can also be increased by renovations, and what is the total cost of these? How big is it going to be for a public-private partnership model? Do you think there's any study involved? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0204par0106	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0205par0108	Mr. Secretary, as I said in my non-responsibility speech today, this is a city that pays $20,000 tax per person, but its return as public investments is 79 percent. I mean, we don't get a lot of public investment, which is pretty obvious when you look at the hospitals in Marseilles. In the newly established districts of Kopeeli, there have been no hospitals for five years -- I mean, they've just been established. In these hospitals, people have to go to hospitals 30 or 40 kilometers away to get shots. What do you plan to do to a city that lacks so much public investment?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0204par0109	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0206par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the reason for the closure of Fatma Temujin Heart Hospital, which has served in our province for ten years and has performed important tasks? He's not functioning right now. My second question is: A beautiful hospital has been built in the district of Cepener, the Numune Hospital, but unfortunately the emergency room has not been planned and there are very serious problems. I mean, when you're planning this, what do you make a huge hospital like this that doesn't have an emergency plan? My third question is: For five or six years, Adana has been told of a large health campus. Is there a health campus in your program for Adana, at what stage, and when are you planning to do it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0207par0116	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0208par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. What I want to ask you is that I didn't mention it in my speech because there wasn't enough time. In our country right now, there's stale bread, long-lived milk, a variety of long-lived foods. There are also fruit juices used in artificial sugar, or there are various biscuits, sweeteners used. Does the Ministry of Health have any work done on the changes they've made in the human body? So as the Ministry of Health, in the short term, in the middle period, or in the long term, do you intend to do a study of these as our new Minister of Health, in an environment where there are serious developments at the point of allergic disease and at the point of cancer, and in which numbers have increased? That's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0209par0121	Thank you. Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0210par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as I recall, the Health Department budget was $16 billion this year, except for return capital revenues. When these 37 hospitals you are planning are completed, how much will your budget be, along with the rent and other costs that will be paid for them, have you run such a simulation of the years to come? From what I've seen, there's going to be about half of this 16 billion additional budget, and the budget's going to be in a lot of trouble. Do you have any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0211par0126	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0212par0128	Minister, after the 1999 earthquake, the World Bank, the European Development Bank and the Bank of Islam have a $1.5 billion loan under the ISMEP project for reducing earthquake risks in Istanbul. A significant part of this loan is about public buildings, thousands of public buildings preparing for earthquakes. But as far as we can see, even though there's a current budget for preparing for the earthquake, especially hospitals, it's still moving at a rapid rate. What's wrong? How long will it wait? The number of hospitals and clinics that have been strengthened or rebuilt in the last six years has been very few.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0211par0130	Thank you. Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0213par0132	Thank you. Minister, there are two major hospitals in Mersin. These hospitals are constantly being built around new constructions, where they're trying to expand the area of the hospital. In the process of building city hospitals, a hospital complex with 1,232 beds is scheduled to be built in Mersin. In the last ten years of your power, why hasn't a hospital been built in this big city with this big, instead of waiting for the hospital complex so far? What are you waiting for? The new hospital complex that's going to be built, and since these hospitals are going to be closed, aren't these expenses in vain? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0214par0136	Thank you. Mr. Akar, last question.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0215par0138	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to talk to you about Bigeli again. Turkey's population growth increased by 13 in 1,000 -- 12 per thousand according to this year's data -- has increased by 20.4 in 1,000, so our population has increased by 30,000 and so on this year. However, the number of hospital beds did not increase in the family. Again, what are these investment plans if this population growth is being planned and a hospital plan is being made? I want you to explain these. My second question is that although the cancer rate is 12 per cent in Turkey and 12 per cent in the headquarters of Kopeeli, Dilova is 33 per cent in the region, that's how the statistics work. Do you plan to conduct a health study for Dilovasi, in a way that prevents professional illness or cancer? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0216par0141	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0143	Mr. Aslanoglu, you have expressed figures on Turkish banking's free exchange rates abroad, 18-20 billion dollars. If we bring foreign currency from the outside, we can discuss it through a Turkish bank or something in Turkey, but I think there should be no problem in that sense, and if there is, we can negotiate to correct it.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0218par0144	That's the Bank Association's opinion, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0145	Yeah. Mr. Light, due to the change in placement of the 500 or 700-bed state hospital in Kütahya district of Kütahyaahya province, the deployment of the military, the Ministry of National Defence was completed in December. A public-special cooperation model and a 600-bed hospital in 2013...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0219par0147	Mr. Secretary, I can't understand.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0148	The booking of seats from the Ministry of National Defence in Kütahya was completed in December. In 2013, hospital construction is planned for 2013 with 600 beds of public-private cooperation. Currently, the land has been transferred from the Ministry of National Defense at the end of 2012. Mr. Türeli, 37 hospitals, about 43 to 44,000 beds, total cost... the total cost for today is about $18 billion or $18.5 billion. We'll be able to give the numbers more clearly once the tender process is complete in the future. Is the number of hospitals planned to increase the number of beds? We're building a city hospital downtown with 1,180 beds. Education Research Hospital Deeply...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0220par0151	Do you plan to do it, Mr. Secretary? Don't say we're doing it, it's not a hospital like this.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0152	Let's just say we're planning it, okay.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0220par0153	When you say we're doing it... there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0154	Okay, fine, we'll plan it. We're planning a 200-bed maternity hospital next to the Deep Education Research Hospital. We're renovating the Alexei State Hospital. We're also starting renovations at SECA State Hospital.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0220par0156	You're starting?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0157	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0220par0158	So that's what you've done in your nine years of power. You're new, though. I'm not telling you anything.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0159	By God, don't worry, we can account for the nine years as comfortable and as powerful as you, in good health.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0220par0160	Come on, let's give it to him. There's no nail in the health, nails, but you always plan!
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0161	We're giving it to you, and we're also giving it to you in Ableeli, and we're also completing the lack of the health dynamics of Bigeli, but at the moment, the dynamics of the Education and Research Hospital are extremely good, despite their lack of it. The services at the Fatma Kemal Temuçin Heart Center have been transferred to Seyhan Application Center and the newly opened Numune Hospital. This building is also used as ASM by renovations. This place isn't closed, services are redesigned.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0221par0163	There's no renovations, it's empty. Yeah, why'd we shut this place down? Is there a reason you shut it down?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0164	There is now a plan in the form of a oral dental centre, where the emergency services are reorganised and used.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0221par0165	They've got the curtain up, it's closed.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0166	The heart hospital is planned at Yenişehir Hospital. Yes, we'll take another look at Adana.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0221par0167	What happened to the health complex, Mr. Minister?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0168	Our current situation regarding Adana's health complex: the tender for ADSM is scheduled for next week. Thus, the tender process of oral and dental care there has been concluded, and the negotiating phase is almost complete. Once the negotiation process is complete, the contractor will be invited to the contract. Mr. Kusoğlu: Your budget was 16 billion. What's your budget in the future, with a public-private way of operating? The ministry's central management budget is 36 billion 611m euros in 2013, with a rotating capital budget of $19 billion, 717m. In the event of investments with the public-special cooperation model, we project or predict that the additional charge to our Ministry will be $9.5-10 billion in the next decade. I mean, we don't think of this amount as a huge burden on public investments. A billion and a half dollars from the World Bank after the 1999 earthquake of Mr. Eyidoğan, in which sense the obstetrician hospital (300-bed) in İstanbul is in its basic phase, Eagle Lütfi Kırdar (900-bed) is in the tender phase of the Okmeydanı Hospital (900-bed) tender phase. Of course, that's why there are so many schools in Istanbul and...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0222par0172	It's been eight years, Mr. Secretary, it's been eight years in the county's private administration. Why can't it be spent, Minister, why can't it be spent?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0173	Some of this money is serious about schools and other public buildings...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0222par0174	You're still saying that, Mr. Minister.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0223par0175	What if he gives an answer to Dilovasi, Mr. Secretary? How do we prevent this cancer?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0217par0176	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0224par0177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the first article, which I will have read and process according to the order of arrival. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st draft of the current bill. Article 2. We propose that the (c) bendi (f) bendi be changed in the following way, (g) be removed from the text of matter, and the other dams be identified accordingly. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı C) Price: A sum of the charges to be paid to the contractor in exchange for the use of the contractor's facilities under contract, and certain services other than medical services at the facility. f) Management: Ministry Central Agency's relevant unit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposed 417 rows of law in question is 1. Adding the provision of equipment and equipment to be provided after the declaration of the article shall be made to be established in accordance with the establishment of its higher rights, B). Subsequently subtracting the expression from the draft text, C) 2. In the joke, e, g, k and s were removed from the draft text, d) 2. In accordance with the terms of the renovation of the joke, we would like to submit the term "proposal" in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Izzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli of Love Free Special Mehmet Sugar Aylin Nazlıaka Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0225par0198	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0224par0199	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0226par0200	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0224par0201	Mr. Aslanoglu, who wants a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0227par0202	Mr. Hülya Trust...
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0224par0203	Hülya Güven, İzmir MP. Mr. Trust, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0228par0206	Mr. President, the MPs have made a commitment to discuss the proposal we made as the Republican People's Party on the 1st Article of the Law on Building, Renewal and Service by Public Co-operation Model of Health Ministry 417 ranked in session, with respect to the High Council. Members of parliament, this bill is the final step towards the full privatisation of the health of the AKP government. Another bill of law involving thousands of health workers, millions of citizens, has been brought to Parliament for immediate approval. The reason is shown: so far there have been insufficient hospital services, insufficient hospital facilities, inadequate sick rooms, even Ankara Numune Hospital as an example. So, in 11 years, the AKP government couldn't fix hospitals? If he couldn't fix it, what's the reason? Should there be hospital structures with 2,000 to 3,000 beds, with a mall, with commercial spaces to fix it? Is privatizing hospitals the solution? Moreover, the Ministry of Health has so far boasted of hospital capacity and bed quality. Nobody says don't fix hospitals, don't fix beds. We, the Republican People's Party, also want better arrangements to be made. Moreover, this bill is presented without transparency, with hidden purposes placed between the laws. For example, with this bill, the government is trying to escape from the Public Contraction Law. Today, when Republican People's Party municipalities are charged with grounds for public tender law, the tenders will be exempted from the Public Contraction Act, which means transparency has been eliminated in the hospital's construction tender. The government will also pay the hospital's company for repairs and maintenance services needed to keep the facilities and equipment used at the hospital ready for use. So you're getting an O.R. service for the hospital, of course, including a doctor, nurse, anesthesiologist, anesthesiologist, but you're going to pay maintenance and repair costs for keeping the equipment operational. How will the inspection be done? Who's gonna do the O.R. service, another company or the company that built the hospital? The bill is not clear. Even under today's conditions, nursing services, laboratory services, operating services, physical treatment services are already provided by the subcontractor, and the administration oversees these services today. I wonder who's going to oversee it when the hospital gets to the companies. Of course, the company will profit from every pen. If our compatriots are leaving half their monthlys for treatment today, it won't be enough if they deposit their entire monthly in the future. In short, if he doesn't have the money, he won't get the treatment. We all know you don't need privatisation to provide quality health care. Is the government aware that she is the cause, the physician, the nurse, who complains today that she is not enough? The number of private hospitals has increased, and in turn, the problems of doctors working in public are the primary reason. Violence against the former non-medical worker has increased during this period. Our physicians are being killed, driven to suicide. The citizen cannot receive sufficient health care, nor can he go to private hospitals, which used to be called before the election, called the "free" (but now have money). Health is a service that must be given for free, and the AKP government must make an effort. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0229par0213	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st draft of the current bill. Article 2. We propose that the (c) bendi (f) bendi be changed in the following way, (g) be removed from the text of matter, and the other dams be identified accordingly. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends C) Price: A sum of the charges to be paid to the contractor in exchange for the use of the contractor's facilities under contract, and certain services other than medical services at the facility. f) Management: Ministry Central Agency's relevant unit Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0230par0222	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0229par0223	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0231par0224	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0229par0225	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0232par0227	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 1st Article of the Law Bill 417, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council, and wish the Minister the best of his new mission. This is a motion to change some of the definitions found in Article 1. We predict that the definition of "bedel" will define the amount to be paid to certain services, especially other than medical services, and in a similar way, the administration will remove rural units. This was given by the assumption that rural units in particular would experience difficulties in the new model, directly from the assumption that it should be connected to the Ministry's central unit, and other substances are designed to be identified accordingly. I hope the High Council finds this motion in place and we'll make this right. On this occasion, I also want to thank Mr. Secretary for his response to the question I just asked him because for the past ten years, during the AKP administrations, the construction of the state hospital in Kütahya was a pre-election propaganda material. So it turns out that the fact that the hospital was moved to a certain point two years ago and extended to this day is underlying the expectation of this bill. I hope this hospital is at least built with this model, and I hope the Kütahians get this service they've been waiting for for for ten years. Minister, another issue -- perhaps it didn't reach you -- after the Simav earthquake in Simav, on May 19, 2011, some blocks of the state hospital in Simav have been evacuated due to damage and health care has been trapped in a building, despite the fact that there is a serious population in a district like Simav, with its villages. Many of the doctors had to leave. The rest of them didn't like the local executives of the government, they've been dealing with them, and a few changes have come up in the past two years, but somehow the Ministry didn't like the place. The recent allocation from the city council as the hospital location of the area of Simav County's autogar complex has come on the agenda, but as a result of our investigation, the current area -- city control -- is about 15 per centimeters -- and the construction site is about 9,000 square meters. However, the existing area of the hospital's Ministry of Health is about 26 acres, and the construction site is 16,000 square meters. Now, because we can't fit in 16,000 square meters, we've been wondering how the ruling party, which has blocked this service to Simav for a year and a half, will fit this construction into 30,000 square feet. I believe your Ministry has been briefed on this matter. Hopefully, in your time, the correct information will be received by a new team, where a very good facility is now being restored on the existing property of the hospital. It was my duty to explain and inform you, especially on this occasion. After that, the people of Simav could no longer bear to hear the words of the patient, for the two years this fight has not ended. For this, we would like to ask you, privately, to make a decision as soon as possible about the construction of this hospital and to restore it to the hospital of Simav. Dear lawmakers, there is much to be said about this bill. The experts made many statements about it, but I couldn't help but say that what happened in the example of Kütahya also showed us how much this bill smelled like rant. I hope this country doesn't fail to access these health care services again. I wish the bill well, and I salute you all again, waiting for your support in our motion.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit05spe0233par0234	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-19sit06spe0233par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 417. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (February 20, 2013) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (February 20, 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
