tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The tenth tour includes food, agriculture and animalism ministry, tobacco and alcohol market regulatory institution, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, Turkey's Ministry of Health, the General Directorate for Health of Borders and Coasts, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Agency, Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution and Turkey's Public Health Institution's budget and final accounts. 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account (x) 506 and 507 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 27th Constabulary of the Union, dated 10/12/2013. 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the tenth round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP; Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar MP; Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir MP; Ali Öz, Mersin MP; Cemalettin Simsek, Samsun MP. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP; Ayla Akat Ata, Batman MP; Demir Çelik, Mud MP. On behalf of the group of AK PARTI: Mehmet Erdoğan, Adıyaman MP; Tülay Bakır, Samsun MP; Önder Matlı, Bursa MP; İbrahim Yiğit, İstanbul MP; Nurcan Dalbudak, Denizli MP; Azize Sibel Gönul, Yupeleli MP; Halide İncekara, İstanbul MP; Mehmet Süleyman Hamzaoğlu, Diyarbakır MP; Sevim Savarer, İstanbul MP; Tülay Babushcu, Balıkesir MP; Ulir Can, Eskişehir MP; İsmail Tamer, Kayseri MP; Salih Fırat MP; Adiyaman MP. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Vakap Seçer, Mersin MP; Ramazan Kerim Özkan, Burdur MP; İlhan Demiröz, Burdur MP; Ayşe Nedret Akova, Balıkesir MP; Candan Yüker, Tekirdağ MP; Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP; Özgür Special, Manisa MP; Hülya Güven, İzmir MP. Asked on behalf of his subjects: Leinder, Bedrettin Yıldırım, Bursa MP; and against Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, Kopeeli MP. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0002par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I hereby salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, agriculture and food are vital to the survival of our people. It's a fact that agriculture, food production, is a strategic sector for the continuation of generations, accepted by the entire world. With the wrong practices of AKP rulings, the agricultural sector has been neglected, our farmer, our producer has been condemned to poverty. As he always did, Mr. Secretary weighed the budget in the Plan and Budget by rolling the numbers around, saying, "Where have we come from?" by giving the numbers to his advantage and ignoring the numbers that didn't suit him. Now, let's continue our discussion with some questions, numbers that the Minister has ignored, which he has not mentioned. Mr. Secretary, when you took power, how much was the diesel, how much was the fertilizer, how much did our farmer receive, how much was the wheat price? Dear lawmakers, when the AKP came to work, the diesel was about 1 lira, the wheat averaged 35 cents, so with 3 kilograms of wheat, our farmer could easily buy a gallon of diesel. Today, diesel costs $4.58p, wheat averages 65 cents; 7 kilograms of wheat only buys 1 litre of diesel. In 2002, when the AKP came to work, the DAP fertilizer cost 35 cents and had the power to buy 1 kilogram of DAP fertilizer with 1 kilogram of wheat. Today, DAP fertilizer is 1,450 cents; our farmer cannot buy 1 kilogram of DAP fertilizer with 2 kilograms of wheat. The fact that our farmer, using the world's most expensive diesel, is forced to compete with the farmers of other countries, is nothing more than a reflection of AKP's economic policy, where we can express it as a summary of its economic policy, importing supporters, turning the corner. During the 11-year period of AKP rulings, there is no need to be a genius to understand what the farmer's condition is when the price of input has increased by about 300 to 400 per cent, while the price of input has increased by at least 70 per cent to 80 per cent. Eleven years ago, Mr. Prime Minister had promised to walk around the squares and remove taxes on the farmer's masoth and cheapen the diesel. For 11 years, the Turkish farmer has been waiting for the Prime Minister to keep his promise. By the way, Mr. Prime Minister broke his promise to the farmer, but he made another diesel cheaper, cheaper the ship's gas. He removed the tax loads from the shuttle's diesel, providing them with cheaper diesel. I'd like to mention something else that the Minister ignored and didn't express. Mr. Secretary, in 2006 you passed the Agricultural Law, and you ruled the 21st article that support for agriculture cannot be less than 1 percent of the non-national estate. I mean, it's a law clause, but since 2007, you've taken about 35 quadrillion liras out of our farmer's pocket by not complying with it yourself. And I'm just saying this for wheat, and just for wheat, when you add about 15 quadrillion liras in wheat that the farmer's product lacks the value it deserves, the farmer's loss is only at two pens, about 50 quadrillion liras in wheat. Now, let's get to this number of loans. Mr. Secretary says he's always comfortable paying off the farmer's debt, sir, here's how high his collection rate is, in 97 percent, in 98. Let's see if it really is. When you took over the Ministry in 2002, the farmer's total debt is $530 million, 40 billion today, about 40 billion. Now, let me ask you, Mr. Secretary, why does the farmer pay 97 percent, 98% of the debt, and this total debt never go away? How did 40 billion dollars pile up so far? GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ That loan, credit. So, you're going to apply for some accounting games to show higher collection rates, sir, and you're going to postpone debt, which is less than one-in-a-half, with a decision, which will appear to have been collected under a delay, and you're going to come out here and say 97, 98 percent. What else are you doing? What you're doing is, unlike the practices of the past, you're using these numbers to trick people into finding new loans, as much as capital plus interest, by constantly renewing loans, by never collecting them, as if they were ever collected. These are not the numbers of the farmer, these are the numbers of deception, deception. Today, our farmer is in prison and in foreclosure, moaning. Since he has no money for tea in his pocket, he can't go to coffee, he can't provide his winter needs. Villages are empty, young people living in villages cannot get married.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0003par0057	Yet they vote for the AKP!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0002par0058	In fact, nearly 3 million hectares have been removed from agriculture since you arrived at work. The farmer can't go to his field because he can't put diesel in his tractor. Today, our farmer doesn't own his field, his garden, his greenhouse, his precious deputies; they all belong to banks, these lands are mortgaged to banks. Mr. Secretary can't stop praising the farmer for how much they support agriculture, but the numbers are there. I'm asking Mr. Secretary, did the agricultural loans that the Agriculture Bank used in 2012 drop or not, Mr. Secretary? Has the Agricultural Bank's assistant vice president of agricultural loan been revoked or not? Is the agricultural loan agency presidency removed or not? Has the agricultural credit departments in the district managers been removed or not? Why was the agricultural branch practice that you opened in Antalya with a grand ceremony and said would only serve farmers, put an end to it, if it was useful? Members of lawmakers, now the Bank of Agriculture is asking for the same information and documents, in the same category as commercial loan clients, for farmers who want to get loans. The Agricultural Bank, as it used to be, does not lend to our farmer in its name and in accordance with its institutional purpose, but turns the loan it withholds from our farmer to commercial loan customers. Remember here, a valued MP brought up the loan that other banks didn't offer, which gave 650 trillion liras to a commercial company as a commercial loan, before they could even get the first installment, without collecting it, into administrative follow-up loans.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0003par0060	He bought it from a bank to save the private bank.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0002par0061	Yeah. So the AKP mentality, which put the farmer in prison for three cents' worth of debt, has put 650 trillion liras behind bars for a commercial firm he can't even take his first installment. And then what happened? Then the director general of this bank was appointed to the board of directors, who was then appointed to oversee the banks, to oversee the responsibility of the Banking Editor-in-Chief and Control. Some friends might say, "What's wrong with that?" They're telling the truth. So in the Lighthouse case, didn't he leave the defendants and judge the prosecutors? Same thing, nothing's changed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0003par0063	Bravo, that's right.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0002par0065	Mr. Secretary, the message box on my phone has been full of messages from unemployed college graduates who have been waiting for you to make an appointment for about three months, who have graduated from biologists, veterinarians and other majors who have been waiting for you to keep your promise. In fact, some of them -- God forbid -- even say they're thinking of committing suicide; on my phone, I can show you. Mr. Secretary, why can't you take these positions while other ministers take them? Aren't you in the same cabinet? If these young people are on the verge of depression due to lack of staff, the whole plague is on you, Mr. Secretary. The other day, Mr. Minister says: "Thankfully, Lord Lord has shown us these days, we are now able to export animals. " Now, the esteemed MPs, the Minister, mock our minds, the mind of the nation, as he has always done. What's he saying? So, since you started importing live animals in 2010 after 16 years, you've imported 171,501 heifers so far, you've paid $3 billion. Now, the number of animals you say you're going to export, 250, if that's true. We didn't say it in vain because Mr. Secretary was good at flipping numbers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0004par0068	He doesn't know math.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0002par0069	171,501 heifers and 3 billion dollars, and I export 250 heifers in return. You say, "Thank God, we're going to be exporters." And I'm telling you, I can't tell you anything else. You are the one who removed the Law on Animal Corrections, which was issued in 2001. You will remove the Animal Strategy Document, which was put into effect in your predecessor's cabinet, your minister's time, and you will open the door to imports that have sunk the farmer, destroyed the local manufacturer, and destroyed it, and then you will make a success story out of it. Only you can do that, Mr. Secretary. I mean, there's no way anyone else can. Mr. Secretary, I've got an article that's been reflected in various media organs in the summer months, and I've got a story. There are statements here of a businessman and a businessman at an event of the Department of Agriculture. There are words he said when you were there. He says that the businessman who took the stand at the meeting begins by expressing his admiration for Mr. Minister Mehdi Eker. I fell in love with this Minister. This is not flattery or flattery. In the later part of the talk -- excuse me -- my name is known as a businessman in love with cows. This is my sign. There is no revolution if we don't take it away from the peasant. Agriculture should not be left to the farmer or the peasant. Minister, is this true? Have you been to a meeting like this?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0005par0073	Who's he gonna leave it to?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0006par0074	That's what he does. What's he doing different?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0007par0075	He'll leave it to the Jordanian.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0008par0076	Is that a conversation? If that's the case, Mr. Secretary, it would be disrespectful for you to sit here today and to this nation and to this Parliament and to this will. If you haven't given that the answer, what right do you have to be sitting here today, if that's true?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0009par0077	Is there a farmer left in the country? They sold their fields, all farmers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0010par0078	He's not sitting, he's not sitting, he's lying down, he should sit down again.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0008par0079	There are other things. I'm really feeling nothing. There are allegations that the Mera Law has been changed since the intervention of this fellow businessman. After the intervention of this fellow businessman, we have enough food for you. There are comments that two months after the date you call it, the import doors were opened wide, thanks to this respected businessman again. I'd like you to answer with full clarity here today on behalf of the Turkish farmer. If you've witnessed this conversation and you haven't responded to it, it's a shame to stand here for one minute, it's a sin. I expect you to resign immediately. I'm asking you on behalf of the Turkish farmer. Mr. Secretary, I've told you before, you're the most unsuccessful minister of all time, sitting here from the Diyarbakır convention. Now, you've done Barzani's hospitality, you've secured your place, but even you won't be able to carry them one day. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council. I wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0012par0086	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budget and final account talks of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Board. I salute you all. Agriculture has a wide range of influence, so agricultural policies are of great political, social and economic importance. On the other hand, because of the fact that he provides raw materials to other sectors, that he has a serious employment area, because of his share in national income and exports, agriculture is a sector that every republic's government cares about, needs to care about. The agricultural sector, a highly strategic sector in terms of meeting people's food needs, is the leading sector in Turkey's economy and social structure, as is the case in the world. The country's agricultural policies are crucial for healthy and balanced diet, food credibility, producer's well-being, consumer protection and protection. Agriculture, like other fundamental and strategic sectors, did not have the value it deserved, unfortunately, in the 11 years of AKP's rule. Our farmer, our producer, was forced to leave the land where they were born, driven to poverty, regretting its production, as if the agricultural sector was tried to be destroyed. The result, of course, is that today most of our country's population is not able to feed healthy and balanced. They can't buy agriculture and food products at the right price to feed, and unfortunately, our people don't have that economic power. I mean, in our country, the manufacturer is neither satisfied nor consumer. During the 11 years the AKP has been in power, practices that have been especially unvisioned, unpredictable, and for saving the day over the past six years have increased beyond the resolution of the country's agriculture problems. The speaker before me said it, and I'll repeat it, maybe it wasn't understood by the morning hangover. This period has been a period of punishment for production and production. The amount of agricultural support payments during the AKP period was estimated to be at least 1 per cent, but so far the average amount has been around 5-6 per thousand in 2006, according to Agriculture Law No. 5488, which you took out in 2006. In 2014, the amount devoted to agricultural support was $9.7 billion, which, unfortunately, amounted to 5.7 per thousand. Of course, it doesn't change the fact that you're trying to make these endorsements look high by flipping the numbers, precious lawmakers. Our deceived, deceived, presumed farmer is sentenced to hunger, absence, bank interest, foreclosure, mortgage clamps. In their village, health has been deprived of education, so leave the area. We must remember that agricultural support has a very serious social dimension as well as its economic size. In support, the rural area will provide the right income for the manufacturer, while on the other hand, it will prevent migration to cities in rural areas. Where they're born, our farmers, who don't have money to eat, who don't live humanly, are evacuating villages, becoming consumers from manufacturing. We have repeatedly expressed our proposals for solutions, as well as the problems of agriculture, producers, farmers, feeders. You ignored it, ignored it, and even ignored what you heard, and you did not consider the farmer and the manufacturer as men. Dear MPs, the villages are coming. Even in my constituency, Afyon (Afyon), there are 114 villages whose population has fallen below 100. In the meantime, with political debates alone, we've had 10 villages turned into neighborhoods. Once again, valuable lawmakers, in our country, the knife is based on bone in agriculture, almost dying, giving SOS. Farm engineers, veterinary physicians, food engineers, water products engineers, landscape architects, agricultural technicians, veterinary health technicians, veterinary health technicians and technicians, both waiting for appointment, who have been trained to promote new technologies and take them to farmers, producers, feeders, feeders. The Minister and the senior bureaucrats around him, unfortunately, are playing Polyanna, in their pink world. They seek to receive knight medals from France for finishing agriculture in Turkey. However, TARSIM is more interested in insuranceing than in the manufacturer, while its agricultural loan co-opters are trying to sell food, fertilizer, medicine with half a kilo of olives for the feeder, five kilos of sunflower oil promotions. God says, "Where are you going?" In order to buy more products from the unit area, our universities and ministry employees have had a very serious contribution in developing new growth techniques, new rehabilitation methods and promoting them to producers. Today, more than 20,000 agricultural engineers are traveling idlely or working in areas that have nothing to do with their education. The right, reliable, healthy food supply has been left at the mercy of businesses due to the removal of the obligation to employ professional staff in the food business. Our ministry has around 5,000 food inspectors. The number of companies that produce food registered is around 40,000, while the number of companies that sell and distribute food products is around 500,000. Even that means there's a shortage of food engineers in the industry. Reports to the "Hello 174 Food Line" are increasing and waiting for solutions. By making necessary arrangements, opening the way for the employment of food engineers can be prevented from unfair competition by the more effective use of public control in the food industry, and consumer protection is also provided. While our urban municipalities spend millions of dollars on plants and plants from abroad, our landscape architects are sadly idle. Congressmans, on the other hand, the definition of water products engineers in Water Products Law 1380 has not been defined, and they are not authorized in water products protection and control areas, preventing water products engineers from working in public and private sectors. More than 15,000 water products and fishing technology engineers are seriously victimised in our country. In our country surrounded by the sea on three sides, this matter is of great importance. Millions of acres can be farmed, and treasured land, unfortunately, is idle. A law or a law that you often apply for can be assigned to agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, landscape architects who want to operate these lands under the decree of the law. There are examples of technical agricultural practices that can be done here by supporting business loans and guaranteed production practices. Our country's economy will have an important job and added value. We can be paid billions of dollars by contracting, procurement guaranteed production to cover our shortage of food and oil plants from the outside. We're not just trying to talk about problems, we're trying to talk about solutions. The choice is yours. These victims also have a negative effect on the country's agriculture and animalism, and unfortunately our farmer, our producer, is miserable. Imported GMO products terrorize the market, while quarantine practices and markets are closed because of the slap, while TBs, brusella animals are running around. While uncontrollably, sub-stairs food production threatens our present and our future generations, our vets, our agricultural and food engineers, are waiting for an appointment. Our farmer who uses the world's most expensive diesel, fertilizer and medicine is miserable, his tractor is foreclosed, his field is mortgaged. Entrance costs have bent the farmer's back. It's not worth the product. The only solution to the fire in the field, in the greenhouse, in the barn is the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in these empty rows. Come, let's all find a cure, and quickly remove the most important inputs in agriculture: diesel, medicine, fertilizer, seed, feed and agricultural irrigation, the EVV and VAT. You'll appreciate that the four-way SUV is not allowed to sell the diesel and tractor at the same price as the masoth on the patata. In our country, which is the basis of the national economy, it is not appropriate to import living animals, import sacrifice, import carcas meat, import bait or oil raw materials, and most sadly import straw. Beet makers are miserable. In 2002, Milat agreed, our farmer had to deliver 10 kilograms of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel, while today, he would have to deliver 40 kilograms of beets. The quota applications are also a factor. Last year, you gave the beet maker a penny a pound, and this year, unfortunately, you've seen a lot of money. Dear lawmakers, our wheat producer is miserable. Again and again, despite our warnings, you insist on explaining base prices after the wheat comes out of the farmer's hand. The victim is a farmer. I'm really curious about how much bread and pasta wheat the Earth crop office bought in 2013. In 2002, our farmer, able to buy 1 litre of diesel by selling 2.5 to 3 kilograms of wheat, must sell 7-8 kilograms of wheat in 2013. The speaker just said, in case you didn't understand, again, in 2002, the milk manufacturer had to sell 6 liters of raw milk to buy 1 litre of diesel by selling 2 liters of raw milk, while today he had to sell 6 liters of raw milk to buy 1 litre of diesel. And that two-year-old non-payment-free loan that you've been doing in livestock, that's a whole series of tragic events. The people who use the loan regret that they're involved in this, hear a touch of it. According to available data, the average agricultural business size in our country is 6 hectares. This is 27 hectares in the European Union, 52 in France, 54 in England, 181 hectares in the United States. On the other hand, given the fact that businesses in our country are very fragmented, the situation is heartbreaking. This multi-party business structure and business size pose a serious problem. A reasonable, reasonable legal solution must be found by changing the law of inheritance immediately. How many people and families have been given the deed to land deeds in some areas -- they claim it, you say it a lot -- and how many people and family? I'm curious about that myself. I'd appreciate it if the Minister would answer. Dear lawmakers, after withdrawing from TEKEL acquisitions, the conditions of production, detection and the setting of tobacco price have been acquired by multinational tobacco companies, but farmers who can make contracts with these companies can produce tobacco. Farmers are being exploited by corporations. Tobacco prices are difficult to afford even increased entry costs every year. Ladies and gentlemen of law, let's take care of our farmers, our manufacturer, and let's not pretend they don't exist. One of the ministers shall feed his eyes on the black earth." Even if the Prime Minister scolds them, let's take care of them as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Otherwise, we'll be condemned to imported meat, imported milk, imported food, imported oil, imported fruit, vegetables, even imported bread and water, and we'll be forced to do so. It is a debt to vote for a budget in this situation as a nationalist Movement Party, which is not for the benefit of our farmers, producers, farmers, peasants, workers of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is not for the benefit of Turkey. No. It is a sin to vote. I salute your high council, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0013par0114	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the third speaker is Ruzar Demirel, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0014par0117	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I also want to thank the 12 members of Justice and Development Party members who have been in the hall, who have been watching us on television for a good week, as well as the courtesy of listening to the opposition. I'm here to express my party group's views on the central management budget in 2014 and the final budget bill in 2012, regarding the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Of course, these budget talks are financial and economic, but they have more social and political reflections, and as you know, the consequences are legal and political. When we look at the figure size of the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, I'd like to say a few sentences about budget rights and accountability, after saying that 30 per cent of 2012 was a loss, 50 per cent of the budget was damaged by the end of August 2013, and that the fiveth of the budget for 2014 was already represented as damage. The efficient use of budget rights is possible with accountability, and already, accountability in countries that internalise democracies, believe in the rule of law is a very important parameter, and this job is essential. So, this accountability is reflected in budget negotiations, of course, how much. But beyond that, during the year of life, we, especially opposition lawmakers, have the opportunity to test accountability with certain instruments. And as far as the relevant ministry is concerned, I would like to share with you what accountability has been made, or not, about women, family, children, or what effort has been made. Question motions, sir. Question motions show the opposition's control mechanism over execution. I'd like to share with you three questions in a nutshell. One is that the Prime Minister's Office, which is published under the signature of the Prime Minister, has expressed its duty to its ministers regarding the equality of men and women. I asked him, "What did the concerned ministers do with this sentence? I'd like to share a minister's answer with you, Mr. Customs and Trade Minister Hayati Printer Bey replied, "There are already laws. In our Ministry, everything is run on the principle of equality. According to this order, we don't have to set up a unit, we don't have to assign someone. I offer this to your appreciation. The answer to a second question about the woman is from Mr. Secretary of State. Whether or not we take this as an answer, I will present it to the discretion of our nation who listens to us. The question we ask the Minister is that the symbol name of the Uygur Turks is a heroic Turkish woman, Mr. Rabia Kadir Hanım, who can go anywhere in the world. Why can't you come to Turkey, and why can't you give visas? Mr. Foreign Minister finally answered my repeated questions: "The planes are taking off between Umumici and Istanbul. We're developing trade with East Turkistan. We're putting our businessmen on planes and we're taking them to the area. That's how we do business. If I asked the minister in charge of foreign trade, he probably wouldn't have been able to explain it so well, but in his answer, there was no visa or the injustice of Rabia Kadir or any Turkish woman. I also asked Mr. Fatma Şahin. It's not three, I've asked the same question a few times. Because, as it turned out, in early 2012, there was a newspaper report, and again great news to our country. I sent a question motion to the Minister on a newspaper report called "We are going to have two and a half-and-a-half families with intubation babies." Of course, when I said to the Minister, we sent questions to the Ministry in person, there was no answer. I changed the shape of the problem and sent it back, and there was no answer. I've sent both motions again, and there's no response. Now, in your presence, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary again to answer these questions. Mr. Secretary, I've made an account of how the distribution of 2,505 tube babies could have been made across Turkey through my own science Eskişehir. According to your account, 14 down, Eskişehir, it has to be lower than my account. If you look at the population criteria, it's going to go down even more, even if you look at the principle of social equality. In particular, because such health problems are seen in the general population, you should have distributed them on the basis of a certain percentage of the population, but it's similar to Eskişehir, and I've seen different distributions being made to cities in almost the same population, and Eskişehir was an orphan again, with the Ministry and the Government. But here's the thing: why this private group of hospitals? Why did you allow such a commercial by repeating your brain name over and over again in front of the press, the owner of this private group of hospitals? How did the Competition Agency function here? Was this particular institution's success rate on IVV babies higher than any other private institution, or did it have a higher intubation baby success rate than public institutions? Have you ever considered the possibility that, with this particular institution so prioritized, through the press, through these ads that you've given to this private institution, using 81, that the public-sourceed IVF centers, this nation's tax-based intubation centers, will be thrown into the country? An additional report was published later on the project for social responsibility, concerning these proposals. Assuming it's a social responsibility project, imagine that in your time in power, the public accepted that there was a nationalist movement party. If this nationalist movement party you're plugging had told you that he wanted to do a social responsibility project like this, would you have written the name of our party friend in front of the press and published the names of the governorship, the governorship of 81 provinces, and your ministry's rural agencies in public? If you will answer these questions when your time comes, we will be pleased on behalf of the Turkish nation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is not the end of the matter that led to this question motion. There's a phrase in the following phrase -- because the mirror of language intent, reflection of our language unconsciouss -- says: "You do not need to be a physician to know about it, Mr. Secretary, when you've been found to be needy by the Foundation and decided to be treated as part of the project. See, Mr. Prime Minister isn't a physician, but abortion, C-section, he knows these things very well. If you'd given it some thought, you'd be able to make a very good point. Not having children isn't just a woman's thing. The IVF isn't just a treatment for women's dysfunctions, but this idea, this head, this voice, this sound. This is the voice that recognizes a woman as a cripple, sees her as missing, and calls her violence. In this country, in all the countries of the world, and in all the countries of the world, men may have this kind of function disorder, and I would like to express it in public as a representative of the nation, a physician, a woman. If you already had happy families having children, we, the National Movement Party last March 8th, proposed a speech at the General Assembly because of World Women's Day. We said: "There is a restrictive clause in your regulation of the adoption law, which means education, which is one of the most disadvantaged issues in Turkey." Ease up on that. While there are hundreds, thousands of families in Turkey waiting to have children and children waiting to have a family, arrange for this provision to be adopted by the Law on Adoption, and let families have children. You are not interested. Why? Because it's good to have children, not families. You have a problem with women, and you call it equality. Congressmans, look, Mr. Emine Erdogan, there's been an international verbal abuse against Ma'am. We've all condemned it, including me. This is not what is in diplomatic language, we don't know what it is, but it's a matter of conscience to listen to a gentleman when a lady is speaking; if you have something to say, then you'll say it. But there's a tongue that condemns here that should be condemned elsewhere. Do you know where he is? I'm telling you: Turkey-Russia meets with Putin. There's a press conference behind it at Konstantinovski Palace in Russia to attend the 4th High Level Co-operation Council Meeting. At the press conference, a journalist asks Mr. Prime Minister, saying: "Have you discussed the matter with Mr. President?" They say there's a curfew out of Russia. If that's not the case, will you take Mystery Akhan (Akhan) with you to Turkey? On the cameras we see Mr. Prime Minister's smiling face along with Putin. Because Putin says: "Mr. Prime Minister has come here with his wife. What kind of question is that? He says, "We see our Prime Minister's smiling face. " Ladies and gentlemen of the Justice and Development Party who have been here have been kind, and I'm telling you in particular: would you put your own daughter's name instead of the name of Mystery Akhan, or would you say, Mr. Putin, (...) (x)? I'm guessing you'd say the other one. If we really have a conscience, if we really want equality for women, like all children in Turkey, like all women, all our daughters are ours. If we accept what's being done to a Turkish girl internationally as a joke, we need to reach democratic maturity in our own country to accept what's being done to our own girls as a joke. This lack of access is such a sharp line... we're the MPs here. As a representative of the nation, we have been given the right to dress freely as an extension of our faith. As our public defender, what we have a right to is not to women who are the surrogates of your client. The women who are your client's proxy are unable to perform their duties properly. Why? Do you think it's called equality? If you call it the special area, someone will call it the special area, and you won't see it as an exception. Equality means something to everyone, to all women, to all people. Just don't feel sorry for the one of me, the only one who thinks like me, the only one who's on my side. Let your consciences grieve for the whole nation. Don't let him whine, let our consciences be filled, let us all be together, let us be equal. Here is true nationalism in the mind that accepts us all as equals. And I want to say, members of lawmakers, that I made a statement in my budget speech two years ago -- the year when the Prime Minister was most popular, the new government was established -- I said: "The minister in charge of the woman can never master in this country, the new minister always comes." I think that sometimes history will be repetitive. Mr. Secretary, you know, he's running for mayor. I believe that despite the High Election Board's unfair decision, Mr. Prime Minister and his ministers will resign after the budget talks on political ethics, and a new revision will be made at a proper date, and I want to believe that in the Turkish nation's name. And that's when, hopefully, we'll have a female minister again, because we've had two women in the previous government, one female minister in this government, and hopefully we'll have a minister in the next one. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0015par0131	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the fourth speaker is Ali Öz, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0016par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget talks of the Ministry of Health and its organisations in 2014. With all due respect to our beloved nation, all the health workers and the High Council watching us on their screens. My esteemed lawmakers, one of the main reasons why Turkey is ranked 90 percent in the United Nations Human Development Index ranking in 187 countries as of 2013 is the picture in health. Because when you look at income per person, in the 59th place, when we add education and health indicators, we fall to the 90th place, and according to the OECD Health 2013 Report, in Turkey, the GDP average is 6.1 per cent, while the OECD average is 9.3 per cent. Unfortunately, we are the last country in the OECD. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. In addition to the gap in the number of physicians in Turkey, injustice in the doctor's distribution is a separate problem. Today, in Anatolia, even basic majors are difficult to find physicians. This requires a new plan. In addition, health care personnel are no different. According to data from Turkey's Statistical Agency, total health expenditure was caused in 2012 at 76 billion dollars, and according to this data, health spending per capita was $1,020 per person in 2012. We see that each person's health expenditure has increased from 2009 to 2012. The total health expenditure rate of public health spending dropped from 81 per cent in 2009 to 76.8 per cent in 2012. This decline in public spending has been satisfied by the expense of our citizens. The total rate of health spending in the household was 14 per cent in 2009, while 15.4 per cent in 2012. The rate of health spending for national income continues to decline. We all know that in the last 11 years there have been new loads in very different pens, while power has expressed a decrease in pocket health expenditures. This burden has become a new gateway to suffering for people who have barely made a living. We will remove the doctor's hand from the citizen's pocket. On the one hand, there is no limit to health care. You say, "You can choose the physician." You say, "On the other hand, you take money from every step of the citizen, and if you have money, you go to the hospital." In health, the transformation deception is evident by receiving 11 types of participation. These charges include drug turnout, medical participation, prescription fee, prescription price difference, additional $1.00 per box, special hospital difference fee, examination rate, early examination difference fee, primary examination fee, exceptional health care, phone dating allowance. Campus hospitals, with a public-special partnership, impose on the state to be a tenant in its own home, to hire and cheapen the work of health-care owners. This should be the final of your Change in Health Programme. The burden and inconvenience have been passed on to the state and the nation, and the blessing to the global capital. Our nation now understands that health is a step-by-step special. In 2003, one person applied to a physician 1.8 times a year, while the number rose to 8.9 in 2012. This points to serious questions about health. This increase can give you quantitative happiness, but it requires questioning at the point of quality. You told our citizens that private hospitals were free, you couldn't even get past private hospitals before, and now you can be treated without making any difference. This tale is now completely over. According to us, this story ended in 2008. In 2008, 30 per cent of the difference was reached; in 2009, 70 per cent was agreed to be paid 90 per cent, and in 2012, up to 200 per cent of the difference, and the majority of the insurance holders, pensioners, widows, and orphans were unable to benefit from private hospital services. The number of private hospitals will be increased from 463 to 515 in 2014; this is thought - inspiring. In the last five years, the difference paid by our citizens to private hospitals has been 700 per cent. As a government, you've also begun the term of a professor for hire by drilling the Full-Day Law into private hospitals. If you look at the Health Ministry's 2014 budget, the budget shows substantially staff costs and does not cut in. It means that health care is abandoned to market conditions. The increase in health care has not really been the result of a parallel health care increase. Health Ministry officials have stated that the queues are removed in health, that they are not expected, that they can be examined freely, but this is a hoax. There is no illness, there is no illness that constitutes the foundation of the practice of medicine. The implementation of the principle has been destroyed by performance systems, and many unnecessary examinations have been opened, and this has led to an improper increase of health expenditures. It is also a sign that the Ministry of Health allows unscheduled construction to increase the number of polyclinics and beds, while sources are not being used correctly. Patients were forced to deal with physicians who had met modern buildings yesterday but could not face them with a smile. It is not possible to offer productive health care in an environment where love is forgotten, a smiley face. An understanding that treats a patient like a customer won't do anyone any good. In fact, a service presentation based on health workers' satisfaction could not be combined with modernised structure, and so many investments did not return as quality. The Change in Health Programme has created a serious area for global capital, which has pave the way for increasing commercialisation of health. The most money spoken in health policies means that the state has neglected its constitutional duty. When it comes to healing the rights of physicians, there's a strange defense that the government's budget can't handle this burden. However, we all know how difficult retired physicians are to maintain their living standards with their salaries. Health workers' expectations of the state, especially physicians, have always failed. Unfortunately, the steps needed to improve the rights of the health army, which grew under difficult circumstances, but unfortunately did not get the response they deserved, and in recent years, its reputation has become increasingly low. The biggest fear and anxiety of all health workers is to retire. There is no acceptable excuse for the failure of this situation to be corrected by 11 years of Justice and Development Party rule. Returning capital revenues must be fully reflected in retirement. It is not in any country in the world to force doctors to serve in public. It is neither conscientious nor legal to become a mandatory duty of service three times after finishing medical school in difficult conditions. With the latest bill, it is not fair and conscientious to remove mandatory service for those coming from abroad. A multi-headed understanding of management established in the health care system has created a disturbance of authority. This newly established structure has led to a privileged and supportive staffing. Politics has been assembled to the core of health, and integrity has been eliminated. A happy group has been created. Peace has been broken among the health workers, the race to be close to the chiefs has begun, the effort to become a member of the supporting union has been made. Efficiency has been reduced, internal mobbing has been triggered, anxiety and anxiety of the future have deepened. Control and inspection by the Ministry of Health have been eliminated in the budget as the Court report has not been brought to Parliament; 5 presidents, 5 buildings, 5 structures have been established, the number of staff has been increased, the state's money has been squandered, and, after all, a successful control mechanism has not been dried yesterday. Appointments to new structures have always been a source of suspicion in public. The Full Day Law is an application supported by the National Movement Party, but you have made it a model of discrimination between your arrangements and those who are equal. In the academic world, with this app, you've started new problems. This arrangement has eliminated equal health care and established an understanding of health care as well as money. The practice of family medicine has been passed as a new model in Turkey's healthcare system, but the family physician's commitments have not been made, the workloads have been increased day after day, and finally, the watch system, which is not in any of the European countries, has been placed among the duties of family physicians. In a public health centre, the employment security of a paralegal medical staff working under contract with family physicians must be ensured. It is positive that seizures are increased in intensive care, emergency services, and 112 emergency health care, but it must be expanded to include all health workers. The application of the actual service increase that health workers deserve must be carried out. An increase in the number of subcontractors must be resolved immediately. The number of subcontractors in 2002 reached 11,000 in 2013, in health, in 160,000. The fact that health care is run by subcontractors is at great risk to public health above all else. The subcontractors are working as slaves for 12 hours a day without a job guarantee, without permission and overtime. These workers, who are constantly afraid of being fired, whose wages are not paid on time, who run an important part of the service, must quickly get rid of their problems and not only be deceived by election promises that are not believable. There are many people who will work for you one day and will be promised a staff and the other day. They should not be harmed by their honor and personality rights. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a brief mention of your policy of health-care austerity measures. At the same time, drug prices are under pressure, while the increase in health expenditures by means of private hospitals is overlooked. In our country, the private sector's share of health care has increased from 6 per cent to 30 per cent. Today, in our country, there is a crisis in the field of medicine as a result of wrong policies. Price suppression methods mean there are no drugs available in the market, and there are not many drugs available in our country today. Because drug companies can't produce drugs or stop imports, our citizens are now supplying drugs on the black market. The VAT rate in medicine must be reduced to 1 per cent and reduced. The local pharmaceutical industry must be supported. Free pharmacists continue to serve the public under difficult circumstances as the day goes by. Pharmaceutical damage due to price change must be paid immediately. The cause of this damage should never be considered to be the pharmacists who offer the general psychological counsel of the people. On the other hand, the problem of violence in health remains unresolved. Violence has now changed its form. Yesterday's attacks were added only verbally, verbally, with knives and armed attacks, and the research commission established by the Turkish Parliament on violence in health has not been met, nor has the need for violence been shown. 66 solution proposals in the report prepared by the anti-violence commission have to be carried out, which I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0017par0157	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the final speaker is Cemalettin Simsek, Samsun MP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0018par0160	Mr. President, I'm here to present to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the budget law bill of 2014 and the final account sheets of 2013, health ministry, its institutions, public hospital units and public health department. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been watching a continuous commercial movie for 11 years. We're more interested in advertising than the work done. The wrong jobs seem to be right, the wrong jobs seem to be done, and those who have seen politics as a perception management, and those who look at things like that, unfortunately, have dragged our country into an impasse in every way today; our country has now hit the wall at the point where we come from social, political, and economically. Advertisement is all there is. You can always see these banners with a big picture of Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the side. Different ads like this hang sheets all over the country. Do the ministers who see the Prime Minister stay down? May they be blessed with your status. Or may your youth centre be blessed. They drown the country with adverts, such as adverts. Dear MPs, who is this Recep Tayyip Erdogan? Prime Minister and public official of the Republic of Turkey. So, how did they do the public ad? He did what he did as a public servant, on behalf of the public, and using his public source. I have your attention, Recep Tayyip Erdogan or any minister; these are not philanthropists, these are public servants. Since when do public servants advertise their work using public resources? And they're also using the source of the public for that, as we all know. So they're throwing the public's money away. What right do they have? Dear lawmakers, this is power, advertising, and it's also an inherited power, but now, public resources are out, places to sell are down, the sea is out. The country is now in an internal and external debt. He can't save the household, his household debt has increased, his credit card and consumer credits have peaked, his growth goal has become unreachable in recent years. One of the things about this power is that it's a power that escapes control. Almost all the speakers before me mentioned that there were no Court reports, so this budget was not a very valid budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this government has been able to conduct all of the state's affairs by smuggling them out of control. It's been done, it's been done, it's been done, it's been done, it's been done, it's been done, it's been done. In the papers you see in my hand -- I brought it here -- I don't have it with me right now -- there were reports of the Ministry of Health, the Chairman of the Public Hospitals of Turkey, and the Public Health Foundation of Turkey -- I forgot about them, I don't have them with me right now, I can't show you. There are 2012 audit reports on the Ministry of Health and the Public Hospitals of Turkey and the Public Health Institution of Turkey; the Court says in these reports: They have stated to all three institutions that since they cannot provide information and documents required by the Court based on Article 8 of the Law on which they are requested by the Court, these three institutions cannot be conducted, and that there are many shortcomings in the examinations provided within the scope of the documents provided, and that the information given is incompatible to all kinds of corruption, and is open to speculation. It's important to show how desperate the situation is. These institutions participate in the findings of the Court, such as these incomplete reports, and inform the Court that they will be required by 2013. Dear MPs, the Public Hospitals Institution of Turkey, the Ministry of Health 663, and the Court of Law on the Offices of the Union and its Associations. Public corporate personality is tasked with building, operating, health care services, combining, separating, transferring and closing hospitals, oral and dental care centres, and so on. Dear friends, as you know, there has been a transformation fair in health in Turkey since 2003. You know, when you say change in name, or change in name, our people first change in health, so how beautiful is the moon, and how beautiful it is that we're changing and developing in health. They've supported it by saying that the name of something is change, or transformation, which may not be good in health as well as in change and transformation. Well, the change in our health and transformation was not good either. As long as I'm a congressman, I've expressed from this bench that the system of change and transformation in this health is not sustainable. And for that reason, for the past ten years, the system of transformation has been inconsistencies, and the system is now dizzy. Dear MPs, I'm afraid I don't know who set up this system, but the logic of the system called transformation in this health is wrong, and these changes have been made over the past decade in this logic and with a certain approach. Basically, the logic is that this approach is wrong, and the changes that have been made with this logic have not been in place for ten years, and it's not going to sit down. Dear lawmakers, this logic is that since 2008, the SGK will never increase the prices it has paid for SUT prices to hospitals, and you will be the first in your contract to establish public hospital units, and your clause will be the performance of the hospital in the field of responsibility, the president of the union's responsibility, which will be the initial financial performance, and the employees' return capital will be paid as much as possible. So look at your doctors and staff very sick, do a lot of business. You'll say, "Get out of the company," so to speak. See, one of my fellow hospital union presidents recently tells me that the most efficient place in the hospital units I'm in charge of is the mouth and dental health centre. When we ask him, he says that the oral and dental center is the best financial institution, so he doesn't even consider how much benefit and how much benefit the patients there are, because the contract with him was made by putting the financial plan in front of him. In the end, he will be audited financially and given a point in that sense. He's not interested in anything else for her. In addition, the physician in this system is told: "Look very sick, examine the respondents and conduct some examinations, or you will not receive money from the return capital. What should the doctor do? He's looking very sick, very enterprising to save his performance and the union president's performance. It is equally useful and unhelpful to the patient as well as to its Netics. Dear lawmakers, who benefits from such a logical and approach to health care? So we've brought your patient application from 4 per cent to 8.3. That's the logic you call it. Yes, at this time the patients have applied to the hospital, but they've had little use for it. The Social Security Agency's money was also wasted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're not saying this for nothing. In this sense, I would like to share with you the 2012 panoram of Turkey in this sense: in Turkey, in the first step -- including 121 and emergency -- and in the second step and third step -- 261 million, including the mouth and dental centers -- 261 million in university hospitals, 24 billion in private hospitals, 99 million in private hospitals, 622 million in total, 622 million patients were examined in total, that's in 2012; 8.3 patients were obtained from the first step -- and in the first place -- and in the SGK, 7 billion 750 million in the second and third place -- and 24 billion in private hospitals, 3 billion in private hospitals, 3 million in total, 3 billion in total, 5 billion in hospitals, 5 billion in total, 5 billion in total, 2 billion in hospitals, 6 billion in total, 6 billion in total, 4 billion in the United million in hospitals, 4 billion in total, 6 billion in total, 6 billion in the United million in the United million in the United States, 6 billion in the United States. A patient costs the state 33 liras in the first digit, second and third digits -- 92.3 lira, including mouth and dental care centers -- $235.4 in university hospitals, and 74.4 euro in private hospitals. These figures have been obtained from the Ministry of Health sources, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, wherever you may look, the presentation of health care in Turkey today has been prominent, and it has never been settled on quality. Today, along with this government's advertising in all cases, its first feature in posting, promotion, appointment, and bringing it to a certain place is, unfortunately, advocacy. To those who are opposed, he chooses every means of oppression and intimidation. This is also strongly observed in the construction of public hospital troops. The establishment of public hospital troops is more than just serving a political purpose, it seems to be of no use. Public hospital troops are also prioritizing this quantity of patient care because he is concerned with the financial structure of public hospital troops, which he is responsible for looking at very sick. Therefore, it would be a raw dream to expect a lot of quality service from these public hospitals founded for this purpose. Dear lawmakers, this government supported and predestined the establishment of private hospitals, but then, for some reason, it took measures to prevent the work of these private hospitals at all times. What makes you say that? The government has taken a stand against private health care institutions. Once, the ministry implements plans, investments for private hospitals that it does not plan for itself. The private hospital faces incredible challenges to get a physician that it needs. Believe me, there's a doctor's market on this. I can't give you a staff until now, no matter where you get it, no matter where you get it. There's an inter-hospital staff market in this country with prices that vary according to majors. Look, I was going to say a lot about these -- I was going to say a lot of things -- I was going to say a lot about private hospitals and public health care and public private partnership, which is based on this logic, is going to work with this public hospital system, so as long as that logic doesn't change, I'd like to say that there's not going to be a competition environment, and there's not going to be any health services. I give you all my regards again.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0019par0182	Thank you. Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0020par0185	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget for 2014 of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute the General Assembly. Agriculture is a very important social, economic and political sector for Turkey; 9 per cent, according to national income, is a sector that contributes 25 per cent according to employment, which is almost the only economic resource in the rural area, feeding and hosting. In the past decade, the population of Turkey has increased by about 8 million, while agricultural areas have, unfortunately, been dramatically reduced, production has either declined or has not increased in most plant products. In Turkey, about 25 per cent of employment is made up of people working in the agricultural sector, so one of four employees are working in agriculture. That's a very important number. In the United States, it is 1.6 per cent; in the European Union, 3.6 per cent; in the OECD countries, 5.1 per cent; in Turkey, 25 per cent. In 2000, agriculture's share of employment fell from 36% to 25 percent in 2013. So 1.7 million farmers have been cut off from agriculture and away from it. The cause of this decline is not because of modern agriculture or because it has become an industrial country, but because the farmer has been crushed and drowned in debt, he has given up production. Turkey, unfortunately, has become a self-sustaining country importer in the last ten years. Dear lawmakers, governments have privatised and eliminated institutions that regulate agriculture. In products where the public has not withdrawn from regulatory, regulatory institutions have been disabled by restricting opportunities to regulate the market. The private sector has taken over production inputs and marketing. They increase or reduce entry prices at any rate they want. The private sector single-handedly determines product prices, not farmers who produce them. So farmers don't have a role in determining production entries, and farmers don't have the means to negotiate when they're taking production entries. For 2013, the government set the amount of wheat for the Anatolian red hard bread price at 720 liras. According to 2012, the price of wheat has increased by around 8.27 per cent. Production entries increased between 15 per cent and 30 per cent during the 2012-2013 season. Mr. Secretary, you said there was an increase in inflation in your statements, but the price of wheat didn't happen in the market as the Ministry explained. Close to 85 percent of the wheat in the market found only 50-55 cents a kilo, or a feeder's price. Those who had the power to wait sold the same quality wheat a few months later for 80 to 85 cents. The price could only prevent the land crop office from going on the market and buying over the price announced. However, the land crop office didn't go into the market enough, didn't stand up for the price, fed the farmers to the merchants. In the 1970s, 1 kilogram of wheat and 2 litres of diesel were available. In 2002, 1 litre of diesel was available with 3.5 kilos of wheat. Now you have to sell 8 kilograms of wheat to buy 1 liter of diesel. For the last ten years, wheat and corn imports have been paid for. 21 million tons of wheat were imported, and $6 billion was paid for. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been paid $1.7 billion for 8 million tons of imports in corn. The annual import in cotton exceeds $1.5 billion. The annual imports of the fatty seed derivatives amounted to 2.5 billion dollars, and almost all of them are GMOs. AFTER withdrawing from TEKEL support purchases, production conditions and the determination of tobacco price have been single-handedly transferred to multinational tobacco companies. But farmers who can make contracts with companies can produce tobacco. With contracted manufacturing, farmers are exploited by companies, production inputs increase every year, tobacco prices don't happen at the level of input rate, so the farmers' labor is stolen by tobacco and input companies. In sugar beets, production of 22 million tons has dropped to 16 million tons. The price of sugar beets hasn't changed in the last ten years, the manufacturers are crying blood. In places like Müsh, Ağrıl, Bingöl, Bitlis, Erzurum, Iğdır, etc., the beets are still bought at 150-160 cents a pound. Again, I want to emphasize something important in the beet market. The problems of the temps working there are huge, still unresolved, unresolved for years. Under the contract, these workers who have a right to work only for a hundred and twenty days a year are struggling to support their families and are victims. When these workers apply to İSKUR, they say that you are temporary workers, that you have been suspended, that you have not been laid off, that naturally we cannot treat you as unemployed. In eight months of the year, those workers who try to earn a living without a job must be given a staff or other duties in the public. Please hear the cries of these workers, Mr. Secretary. According to available data, the average size of business in agriculture is 6 hectares in Turkey. The EU average is 27 in England, 52 in France, 46 in Germany, 24 in Spain, 181 hectares in the United States. What a disaster we face when this is added to the multi-parted structure of the land owned by businesses in Turkey. Two million hectares of lost land only stemming from disintegration. Given the loss of borders, the cost of transportation, the cost of mechanisation and the loss of efficiency, the damage to Turkey's land and land is around 8 billion euros a year due to its disintegration. Collective efforts must be accelerated in this sense. Again, the loss of land agriculture reform has to be removed as soon as possible for the property of property owners whose land is nationalized, but still not paid for. It is necessary to say again, Mr. Minister, that you should hear the cries of the rightful owners of Harran. Although the legal arrangement has been made, serious problems remain in practice. Dear lawmakers, as in agriculture, it is impossible to speak of a pleasant painting. Although it is a very suitable country for animalism, our country has become an "importing country" from its "exporter" position in the production of living animals. We've been low on animals for many years, and it doesn't happen at the desired level. Turkey bought, imported, for the first time in 2011, live animals for sacrifice. After the sacrifice, in 2012, hay began to be taken from abroad, but the government is still not looking for serious animal-related solutions, but is looking to save the day. The policy of control is implemented by importing to the market, which deters our animal breeders. In 1993, 1994, 1995, the companies that organised the production input and marketing market in the animal industry were privatised and released. Most animal breeders had to give up animalism because of the destructive policies of companies that dominated the free market. Governments have chosen to train animalism by import rather than by increasing production policies. Importing discipline policies have made the country a total importer of animal products. They've been pushed to a secondary plan, our manufacturers. Production has become unsustainable. The unsatisfactory meat demand has been introduced to imports, prices are being controlled by imports. For example, import market control: 116,136 tonnes of carcas were imported in 2011. From abroad, 126,873 head of meat butchery were purchased, 1 million 133,587 head of butchery sheep. 392,988 cattle for food, 472,415 chief sheep brought in from the outside. For sacrifice, 1,6606 head cattle were imported, 53,693 head sheep. When we compare import numbers to our production, it also shows that imports have become substantial. The pressure on the size and production of imports concerns those who engage in animalism. The Meat and Milk Foundation was also established to regulate import policies. The Meat and Milk Foundation and the meat market are being interfered with. Look, the state has authorized imports with zero customs, the Meat and Milk Foundation has frozen the meat it imports from 8-9 liras to storage since 2010. Now he's trying to keep the price from going up by selling that meat at $15.65. As the intervention did not reduce retail meat prices, it bankrupted the feeders who were forced to continue production due to imports. The price of bait is constantly rising, and the price of meat and milk is low in the determination of several private sectors. Precious lawmakers, one of the major reasons for problems in the animal industry in Turkey is the conflicting environment that has been going on in the region for the past 30 years. This conflict has shaken the region's economy to a very serious extent. Again, the bans on cannabis and pedestrians have brought agriculture and animalism to a standstill in the region. Thousands of hectares and pedestrians are banned for security reasons, and bans are still in many places. The government must put the resources needed to clear the mines in the 2014 budget. These areas should also be assigned to locals for agricultural production. Production inputs are increasing each year, product prices are dropping, but the government does not increase agricultural support payments. According to the 21st article of the Agricultural Law issued in 2006, the budget's funding for agricultural support must be at least 1 per cent of the non-employee. However, we're looking at the number that could have been made in the 5 or 6/1000ths. The policy that doesn't improve agriculture and farmers, almost kills them and makes them crawl, is to give the farmer a hard-on. These policies, created to make our people, farmers, peasants, subservient, cheap labor in the metropolitan areas, tend to leave agricultural production to the monopoly of large companies today. Today, the farmer's loans have driven the farmer to debt and swamp with high interest, while the farmer's loans and interest rates have been around 30 per cent. That means giving more interest to the farmer. Today, unfortunately, the farmer is downsized under high mortgage rates. One last thing, Mr. Secretary. Water products engineers, agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinary physicians expect a fair appointment. Please hear this cry. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0021par0207	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Emancipation Birtane, Kars MP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0022par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express the views and proposals of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the 2014 budget bill for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy pen. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, all budgets in general need to be budgeted for gender-sensitive. The budget for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is a priority, and therefore the entire budget must be prepared with a perspective on social gender. In other country examples, one of the most successful countries in social gender-sensitive budgeting appears to be Sweden, where the Ministry of Equality is present. In Sweden, the perspective of gender equality is based on each ministry's own policies. In Britain, budget talks are reported in all kinds of economic, social, cultural areas based on gender analysis, and as a result of these analysis, 95 per cent of the budget for employment can be arranged for women's employment. Last year's Ministry budget -- 3.6 per cent -- is 3.9 per cent this year. There's been no increase in sight. As far as violence, harassment and rape against women, labour exploitation and discrimination against women are deep, Turkey is a country that must make a special effort in this regard. Unfortunately, however, we do not see any application, including the ministry budget. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is imperative that a ministry budget, where policies on women are produced and implemented, be prepared by the opinions of women's organisations. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy is obliged to provide accession to women's organisations in any project and in any budgetary decision-making process. The ministry budget is designed as a family budget, not a woman. Unfortunately, the statements of Mr. Fatma Şahin have also shown that the ministry is not about the independence of the woman, but about the protection of family values. If family work is to be done, it should be based on a democratic and egalitarian structure, not on the strengthening of the family structure based on oppressive and labor exploitation. For this, budgetary activities should also be avoided to strengthen her traditional roles, and should be based on social rights, not on social welfare. If the central budget, education, health, social security system, employment, transportation, to meet society's collective needs are not planned to prevent discrimination against women, especially if it is not planned to eliminate gender inequality in all areas. Mr. President, the process began on January 9, 2013, with the murder of three Kurdish women politicians in Paris. Sakina No Life, Fidan Doğan and Layla Shaylemez will be brutally slaughtered for almost a year, but the incident is still unexplained. No progress has been made in the investigation conducted by the French state. Women have demonstrated a will to expose and prosecute the people responsible for the public massacre, particularly, but Mr. Secretary has never made a statement about it. Dear lawmakers, conflicting answers are coming to our motions on women's murders, and the data of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy conflicted. Most of our questions remain unanswered. For example, according to the Ministry of Justice in the first seven months of 2009, 953 women were killed according to the Ministry of Interior, 324 women. 1.411 women were killed between 2009-2012 and 1.411 women were killed by the Ministry of Interior (7/17781) in response to the Minister of Justice (7/1771). Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are killed in Turkey even under the protection of women. The last police officer who had been stabbed to death by her husband in June had responded by the police to implement the protection decision eight days before the murder. Unfortunately, we didn't see the Ministry take action on this issue, as many women's massacres have been reported in the press as well. What does the Minister think he's going to do about it, and we're wondering in what ways he's worth providing protection methods and thus strengthening the woman? This year, the ministry tried to cover up the systematic massacres of women, as well as their attitude and statements on the Day of International Fighting and Solidarity of Violence Against Women. The ministry is the most institutionally responsible structure in this regard, and of course it is obliged to participate in and even pioneer the fight, but it must not be forgotten the importance of the proper methods of combat and the use of language. In the signing campaign launched by the Ministry on November 25th, we will not participate in violence against women, we will not stand by. Let's join hands to end the violence against the woman. We are determined to do our part in the fight against the woman, and we are in it. Their statements are included. The use of the ministry's mandate and responsibility in this matter is crucial, while it is a passive component of society. The use of its expression shows that it has puts the fight against women in the second place. Signing campaigns are usually a form of struggle initiated by civil structures or individuals and chosen to force governments or government members to take steps in a matter. Is the ministry positioning itself as a violent subject to the woman, or has the Interior Ministry, the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister, called on institutions to take steps in this matter and chosen such a way to force relevant institutions by failing to find a response? Precious lawmakers are a fact that the government has caused various challenges to women who want abortions, that birth control pills are not included in the SGK, that high school women are forced to take a virginity test, and that women who have abortions are reported to their parents, that they are marked, and that the policies carried out on the woman's body have increased pressure on her. It is important to remember that violence against women is not only physical, but it is also the scope of my judgment on body and fertility. At this point, it is urgent for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to consider this aspect of violence against women and to produce social policies that seriously liberate women. As we look at the growing causes and perpetrators of women's murders during the AKP period, it appears that the murders were committed by the spouse, ex-wife, fiancé, father or brother who were close to the woman as a result of domestic disputes and divorces. Containment measures and shelters are inadequate, unable to prevent killings. According to media data, 268 women were killed by men in the first ten months of 2013, 128 women and girls raped, 170 women were injured and 123 women were harassed. Again, the fact that the law set out to protect the woman from violence is built on the logic of protecting the family is a product of the understanding that ignores her. The family, the most violent place of violence, was blessed, and the painting would not have been expected to be different when the woman was made an object that needed to be protected only for the sake of the family. Isn't it also the result that violence against women during the AKP administration has increased by almost 1,400 per cent every year? We have serious concerns about how and how the employment package, which has been studied for a year but has not yet been shared with women organisations and political parties, will provide employment conditions for women. Women have been struggling for years to ensure social gender equality in the field of employment. However, while the women's employment package was being prepared, there was no exchange of opinions with women's organisations, and women's demands were not considered. This package, which will bring many children into the care of these children on its own, will lead to more exploitation of her labor than her liberation. Dear lawmakers, AKP government's rhetoric and policies are in harmony with the mentality of patriarchal order. The prime minister states on every platform that he wants women to have at least three children. Women in Turkey and Kurdistan have opposed the government's demand to save money on their bodies for years in areas and solidarity. In an August 2013 speech, Mr. Prime Minister, I tell my fellow ladies and sisters, come and donate at least three children to their homeland. He used his statements. The fact that the government wants women to have many children cannot only be judged on the axis of conservative policies. It's also a way of adopting a militant approach that governments use as a population policy to boost their military strength. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy is also the greatest enforcer of the government's policies that encourage women to have many children. Dear lawmakers, rape and sexual assault appear to be one of the most violent forms of violence against women. The system works as a whole on this subject and increases the victimization of a woman who has been sexually abused. In cases related to rape and other sexual crimes, we find that the judicial process also works against women and that patriarchal state mentality applies to women. In international law texts, sexual crimes involving crimes against humanity are subject to punishment, except for a few positive examples in Turkey. For various reasons, the perpetrators of sexual crimes are either rewarded with a reduced sentence or release. At this point, the ministry must follow the process of sexual crimes and take a supportive stance on women by pushing the institutions in the judiciary through the perspective of preventing violence against women. Because the fact that rapists are not being tried and protected by the state as well as the fact that rape is happening is also effective in solving the problem of sexual violence. In many cases, we have seen perpetrators being released in the process of trial committed by men working in state institutions, such as soldiers, police, school principals. Isn't the release of perpetrators in the sexual abuse of a 16-year-old girl by an 8-year-old sergeant in Bingöl, a systematic violent product that should be fought according to Mr. Şahin? The prisons where many rights violations occur are where discrimination is concentrated, oppression and persecution is increasing in terms of women and LGBT individuals. Forced search practices, sexual harassment, and violence are the most common practices in this area. When physical and psychological violence is resisted by female prisoners, cell punishment is imposed or the sentences of prisoners are extended. Although the naked search has been described by international contracts as a violation of human honor, this practice remains in Turkey's prisons. When we talk about the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we also find it necessary to talk about trans individuals, one of the biggest victims of hate speech and hate killings. In 2012, 6, 5 trans individuals were killed in 2013. Like violence against women and women massacres, trans-personal violence and trans killings are also political and systematic. The ministry has made no statement against this fact, nor has it taken any steps to prevent the killings. It's a question of whether or not this issue was brought up while the budget was being drawn up. Dear lawmakers, since gender inequality is the sharpest and most common form of discrimination, the freedom of women and equal participation in decision-making mechanisms are essential for the democratisation of political space. For this reason, the state must combat all the processes of politics by providing equal and active participation in women and preventing them from doing so. Women's quotas are essential in politics in order to eliminate conditions limiting their representation in decision-making and implementation processes. For the democraticisation of elections and the political system, the Election Act requires a separate budget for the implementation of 50 per cent equal representation and the financial support of female candidates. The legal recognition of the co-chair system is mandatory in order to improve the representation of women in local governments. At this point, we are waiting for a statement from the Ministry on the reports of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission, a single unit with the word "woman" in it. Although reports have been released to the press that the commission will be closed or that the word "woman" will be removed from its name, no official statement has been made. Dear lawmakers also expect solutions to the problems of disabled individuals entering the Ministry's field of duty. The situation of physical and mental disability of disabled citizens among the disadvantaged groups has led to discrimination within the community. We see that the state's disability policy is based not on the perspective of social rights, but on the perspective of the disabled who are in need and who are in need of charity. The disabled citizens are experiencing problems in many areas from urban life to social security. A striking example of the government's view of disabled as an equal citizen is revealed by AKP Tekirdağ MP Ziyaeddin Akbulut. Mr. Akbulut, in a speech to praise the Ministry's policies, the law, which we passed in 2005, we took the disabled as human beings. He used their expressions. These words clearly reflect the true nature of the disabled policy that the government is trying to decorate with word changes in the laws. Dear MPs, some of the most important challenges for Turkey's changes in social policy are experienced by children. Unfortunately, Turkey is among the countries in the school age where children who should normally be in their schools are employed as child laborers most. I believe your Ministry must take immediate steps towards the high-profile child labor exploitation of seasonal farming. Again, another area that should be fought effectively is sexual violence and abuse against children, where the justice mechanism in Turkey has a large share. Thousands of children are sexually abused each year -- the most important part of it by next of kin. One of the problems children have suffered and the state has a share of its share is the concern of hundreds of Kurdish children who are held in prisons, although they are innocent. Potenti Prison is the first place that we all think about, but the conditions of torture and isolation in Shakran, Sincan, and many other prisons may influence children the most. There is still no improvement in violence and abuse against children in their prisons, which have been reflected in the press with Posanti Prison and have injured public conscience, which suggests that the government and your Ministry remain insensitive to this issue. Kurdish children killed by the state's weapons are also a dimension of violence. Ceylan, Uður, Enes and many other children were killed by these bullets. No progress has been made in this regard, and the perpetrators remain unpunished. The painting is a depressing painting, valued lawmakers. It should be known that democratization will not be involved in continuing violence against women, children, disabled people. As the Ministry of Family and Social Policy establishes social policies, I salute all of you, whether it will bring up all of these massacres, rapes and rights violations on the agenda and organize a fight against them, or whether this year's budget will be assessed, like the previous ones, without taking into account the real demands and needs of the social community.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit01spe0023par0240	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0024par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is Mud MP Demir Çelik. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Steel. Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0025par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Health. I salute you all with respect and love. Before I begin my speech, we have just received a report to address the government's attention while our ministers are here; last week, considering the length of the Constitutional Court and its election, the court has rejected the request for the release of our MPs, who have been arrested on the same grounds in Diyarbakir. It's a scandal. It's not called law, it's about arbitraryness, it's about reciprocalizing one another with political opinions, it's about freewilling and surrendering. We've been objecting for years, and our position in the position of dealing with existing applications should be seen as to the reasons why we're going from place to place to place. The law must be fair, reflected as a reflection of the egalitarian mentality that embraces everyone at equal distance. The penalty is six years and three months from membership in the organisation for MPs arrested today under the TK case. Although the execution is a total of four-and-a-half years, our MPs have been in prison for over five years, yet they are not released. The Constitutional Court's will, which warns and emphasizes illegality, is not taken into account by local courts. Either the state is no longer a state or the political account of the approach to a region, its people, its political representatives, is the epithelial of the denial, self-destructive, mindset of the militant line, and it's a scandal in that sense. This scandal must either be removed quickly, given legal grounds, allowing our lawmakers to come to their places where they should be free, or in this environment, where 80 percent of our society hopes for a democratic solution, I'd like to express that we're going to have a growing loss of confidence, a growing concern for conflict, death, and killing again. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to first express my thoughts on the budget. In countries run by democratic and legal rules, budgets are to meet the fundamental legitimate, democratic demands of society. It is intended to meet social policies and economic activities, especially housing, nutrition, security, education and health, but it is also possible to say that both political, cultural and economic activities are prepared to facilitate these activities of the individual and society and communities, as well as to allow them to serve the sustainability of the democratic legal state, but it is not possible to say that there is a budget for these criteria when Turkey has a 2014 budget. First of all, it's not democratic, but it's capable of providing for the sustainability of the state and the growth of the hierarchy, rather than meeting the needs of the growing society, of the growing and growing society, of the state, of military and civil bureaucracy, of some sensitivity, of the sensitivity of the military and civil bureaucracy, and of a portion of the tablehead, of a budget subject to mathematical, arithmetic, but in the same way, this budget is not democratic. It's not horizontal, it's legitimate, it's far from meeting the democratic demands of society. It's also melted by its properties, and by its actions, it lacks social ability. It does not bring up the need for women, children, disabled, poor, workers, oppressed, and the need for a pensioner. In this sense, what's being satisfied with the budget is that with a mindset equivalent to the spirit of democratic solution, making the country sensitive to democracy is far from meeting a moral and human part of the issues that have the rights to be equal, fair citizens in the democratic republic. Eril is as conflicting as he is, he has not been able to free himself from the bondage of security policies. It is not peaceful in this way, and because it is not peaceful, it is not in a peaceful position or position that is incompatible with the state of law. Mr. President, the dear lawmakers would have wanted, in this process, that all NGOs, democratic mass organizations, trade unions and their representative position, the National Assembly had to have political parties, actors, active components, pioneers and subjects of this budget, but just as the subject and pioneer role of this process were not recognized by the democratic organisation of the existing civil society, human beings were not seen as subjective, nor was health seen in the budget itself. Human and human needs can be bought, some of them sellable have been sacrificed to meta fetishism, but in the same way, health has served as a subcontractor of international and global-sized imperial forces, as well as the approach of power in its foot and position in the country. In this sense, the budget will be far from meeting existing, existing issues, political, social, economic, democratic, cultural problems. If you ask us how we know, 45 per cent of the budget corresponds to financial and current spending, 13 per cent to military and security policies, and again, to a bareme, such as 22 per cent, which, in all, is 80 per cent of the total amount that goes to current spending, war and war policies. With the remaining 20 per cent budget, when you say you'll try to meet education, health, culture, social policies, you'll eventually put us in a situation that needs explanation. It has been seen in the history of the 90-year republic, which cannot be met, which cannot be met, but unfortunately, when it's called social policies, governments are passed on to a number of relationships that will serve to maintain their power, by secret grants, through social policies, through social aid foundations, through districts, through governors, through governors, through the governors, through the will of the province, because they have the ability to buy both of the people's will, and because they have the mind to convert such resources into meta before the election. Social welfare foundations are used to gain the right to freely reflect the right to choose and the will of the person who needs to be free; they leave the poor, leave the poor, leave the poor, leave the poor, make the citizen needy and poor, look to the game with the promise and commitment that he will provide for a small, one-day portion of his needs. That's what the authorities did yesterday, and that's what they're doing today. Therefore, budgets serve to protect the oligarchic structure of civil and military bureaucracy through current and financial spending, and the security of the state that grows vertically and budgets are inflated by practices that guarantee the future of the growing state; there is no freedom, there is no justice, there is no equality; there is no human being, there is no legitimate demands of man and human beings. In this sense, neither within the 2014 budget nor in the Health Ministry budget do we seem to be able to approach those criteria. Since 1975, the budget has been shaped as a reflection of the neoliberal policies of international global imperial power in about thirty-eight years, and the budget has been transformed into an application of subcontractorization, marketing and commercialization. Yes, in the past, public hospitals, university hospitals may have been difficult to access, the job may seem to have been facilitated, but the cost of access is high. If you lack social security, if you are not the ruler of elitist politics, if you do not have rich capital in property and property, you will also find it difficult to pay for treatment in those hospitals. You may not be able to pawn your patient, but you're going to have to make yourself in debt with the bonds you're paying for the treatment of the patient you took out of the hospital. It's about promising hope, consolidating hope for tomorrow, stealing their future with the piles of hope behind it. The budget does not provide anything more than that. In this sense, the 2014 budget itself is not happiness, it is misery, it is poverty, not wealth, but poverty, because the Health Ministry budget with it lacks those qualities. Yes, our country may be growing on an economic level, the number-one economic power of the world, the 16th power, we may have reached a power that we boast about every day. But as this power is not reflected in the individual and the individual's needs, it is the huge conglomerates that grow stronger and bigger by collecting power and capital every day, but it has faced the rights of the individual and its individual, its inadequacies, its inadequacies. The product and work of this practice is that there is still 12 per cent unemployment in Turkey and 15 per cent unemployment in Kurdistan. Due to these and similar practices, people have to be employed for minimum wage under $1,500,000, which still has a hunger limit, while pensioners have been left with a pension under the age of starvation. Mr. President, today, the poverty line is $3,500,000 in our country. To say that a family of four has $3,500,000 in income is not possible for nearly 25 or 26 million populations. Despite the poverty limit of 3,500,000, these people are either faced with the minimum wage or the condition of sustaining their lives under the difficult, difficult conditions of their pension; we do not see the kind of goodness that we expect in society every day, with the understanding and approach that we offer them -- in these days when we are talking about the budget of the Ministry of Health -- in which we are not satisfied. Health is yours, ours, all of us. Health is a right earned by a member of the natural and democratic community. That right is not to be sacrificed to sovereign, ruling, hierarchical relationships, nor is it to be sacrificed, but unfortunately, as individuals, we, from individuals, are not able to think clearly. At a physical, political, social, spiritual, and physical point, you don't have that kind of goodness. Murders are committed because of our absence, and because of our absence, we are condemned to relationships that are ashamed of our humanity as people who have been transformed into machines of violence and death and killing. It's not enough, the workers face death every day in the factory, in the workshop, in the field, in construction. In the last ten years, 10,800 workers in the AKP's administration have lost their lives due to lack of social security and security conditions. As a servant of God did not come forward and answer, those concerned and responsible ministers did not even consider it necessary to resign as a result of the virtue that we see in Europe or in the countries ahead. We've been through the days where dozens of people died, lost their lives. As we don't account for it, the responsible are crowned with acquittal in the eyes of the judge, but today, tens of thousands are living in political prisons as political prisoners and hostages because they want freedom, because they want justice, because they want justice. That's justice? Is it possible to speak of such justice in a democratic law state? It's not, but it turns out that we have a power that has managed to remain the only option in society for 12 years, since we have not given up the opportunity to tame their hunger with the sums that we've put behind us by the expression of democracy, and to turn their poverty into hope. This, of course, is not the crime of power, but the self-criticism of the opposition that we, the democratic opposition, cannot perform. In that sense, I would like to point out from this bench that society is not without options, it can't be without alternatives. The only option, the only alternative, is that AKP cannot have the power and alternative to 11 years of deprivation and inadequacies; rather, society has to create, create, and object to this situation, which has been set as fate, based on its own strength. Therefore, we have important opportunities ahead of us. We have to turn this process that we're talking about the democratic solution into an opportunity where guns shut down, fingers pulled off the trigger. So through democratic politics, we have to approach the problem from a point that meets the legitimate, democratic demands of society. In that respect, as the Peace and Democracy Party, I would like to say that we are more ready to face society with our options and projects than ever, and that we will be in this preparation. Mr. President, the good lawmakers, the world is changing rapidly every day. We need to know that by ignoring the possibilities and resources that the changing world has given us, we have to turn them away and delay them, that we are not capable of keeping society under control every day. Yes, society can hold you up to a point, hold you up to a point, hold you back from the hope it holds, but forever, that hope cannot be maintained. When you can't meet the legitimate demands of society on democratic legitimate grounds, like yesterday, society objects to dynamics, protesting, but intervenes in this fateful situation. This community has known many individuals, padishahs, empires, but, as none of them are permanent, society is breathing down and predicting change to society, day after day, day after day, with a similar struggle to reach its natural democratic medium. The product of this struggle and its work is that the world is rapidly evolving into a decentralisation rather than a centralist, strict state structure, authoritarian administrative structure. Our country can't be expected to stay out of it, not be affected by it. Here, we too must be quickly engaged in the perception of meeting the needs of the community based on self-management by decentralized governments, who have wanted to control society with neoliberal policies from the 1980s. The country is too large to be ruled by Ankara, and Ankara has too dense a population to meet its needs. At the point of meeting legitimate democratic demands in each area of 780,000 square kilometers, when self-government is given the opportunity to achieve prosperity, wealth, happiness. This can be primarily through the mentality of free, democratic local governments, democratic, involved, transparent, fair governments. You cannot manage the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health bureaucrats, the Hakari, the Artvin, Çanakkale, Edirne. And when you attempt to govern, your work and transactions there are not democratic. But you, when you give administrative, financial autonomy to local governments, when you hand over health care, education, culture and tourism to municipalities, when you hand over public affairs and security activities to municipalities, like you do in Europe, as well as in the conditions of autonomy for regional and local governments, the people there, their identity, their culture, their own self-management, and in that sense, the health of the individual, as well as the state of spiritual and social well-being that you've brought to the care of the individual, the communities that you've brought to the care of the individual, the individual and the people in the parliament, and the budget that they've been involved in both for the process of democracy. Democracy is not a virtual concept; it's a phenomenon so political, so social, that it's supposed to be wrapped up in flesh and bone. What's the point of democracy if it doesn't include the everyday life of a person, a community of people? If people in democracy aren't happy, if they're not free, if they're fair, if they're not egalitarian, if they're not applied to 99 percent of me? In that sense, parliament should seek democracy only for itself, for political parties of its own, not for the elite structures of these political parties, but for the whole community. In that way, we should be able to open the way for the services of democratic, ecological, female liberal paradigm, transparent, accountable, sustainable local governments, and give him an opportunity. Why don't we remove the reservations we've signed, signed since 92, over the Regional Local Governments Autonomous Condition of the European Union? Why are we afraid? We've seen the reality, the fact that we're in no position to be afraid. While Kurds have declared their will to live together in a democratic common country instead of a separate state struggle to form a separate state, what will it cost us to free society with democratic, ecological and female freedom paradigm? On the contrary, it's a future as big as the world we're going to win. In this future, all of us can live together in peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, happiness, peace, happiness, peace, and happiness in a country where everyone, regardless of language, language, language, or identity, identity, culture, faith, or color, can be reached as equal, free citizens, in a free language based on universal law. But, it's been seen, and it's seen, that even the institution that is supposed to distribute justice, equality, if it's far from that understanding, if it's far from that mentality, the other of society is far further back, far further away. In that sense, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will have completed the first year of the democratic solution process on January 3, 2014. In this process, the Kurdish side has taken important and qualified steps -- the state has the right to the freedom of society, communities, peoples, beliefs, cultures expected from it. It is incumbent upon this House to give this right to people, to identity, to belief, to pass it on without delay, without delay. With the feeling that this mission will be carried out, the feeling that it will be fulfilled, I offer you all my respect and love, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0026par0033	Thank you, Mr. Steel. The Peace and Democracy Party has finished speaking on behalf of the group, lawmakers. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, we move to the speech section. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party, the first speaker is Mehmet Erdogan, Adıyaman MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0027par0039	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2014. I salute you. Members of parliament, just ten years ago, there was a Turkish agriculture and farmer who was treated as stepchildren, described as a degraded, black hole in the economy. 765 thousand farmers were in foreclosure with a debt of 2.5 quadrillion. At 59 percent interest, those small loans were accumulated and were unable to pay for them.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0028par0041	Tell me, tell me, they're fairy tales.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0027par0042	We've reformed in the region. Ask those who say. Those years were a period of commitments to the IMF to the IMF, which had been removed from fertilizer support, not to lend seeds to needy farmers, not to subsidies, not to subsidize loans. ▪ They would be replaced by direct income support. The people called it the tar and his money. The one with the farm, the one with the deed, he took it. It had nothing to do with product, production, efficiency. In those years, there were three figures of inflation, seven and a half hundred per night interest, banks that were sunk, hundreds of billions of dollars that were siphoned. Under the name of reform, the people of this country were asked to be given a poison to our beloved farmers, but our nation did not forget them. The EC PARTY saw the Turkish farmer as an indispensable actor in our economy. Our farmer is a good boy for the economy. We can't develop Turkey without improving agriculture. Our goal was to improve agriculture and brand the growing Turkey. We have reached an important point in agriculture today, with firm policies and support from the EC PARTY governments, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, to resolve problems. 52 new supports were given; 9 billion dollars in 2013 alone, 60 quadrillion in cash for our farmer in the last decade, 12 billion in livestock support. Agricultural Law, Seed Law, agricultural products insurance was issued during the AK PARTY period. Agricultural basins, rural development moves, grant support for irrigation investments, land collection, bait plants, mera recovery, seed support, some of the works of our trusted Food Ministry. This is not the only support given to the agricultural sector, it's the subsidies of agricultural loans. Here, the interest rate, 59 per cent in 2002, was reduced to 0-8 per cent during the EC PARTY period. There are supports made by the land crop office through product purchases, investments made by State Water Affairs for irrigation purposes. Through these studies, significant increases in plant and animal production have increased from 30 million tonnes to 36.5 million tonnes, milk production has increased from 8.5 million tonnes to 17.5 million tonnes, agriculture's contribution to national income has reached 112 billion euros from 36 billion euros, our agricultural export has increased from $4 billion to 16 billion. The World Bank is writing Turkey's ranking: you are the 7th ranking in the world; you are the 1st in Europe. Says who? The FAO, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Agency, talks about Turkey's success in agriculture story.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0029par0047	The Netherlands sells $80 billion, we sell $12 billion; the Netherlands is smaller than Iconium!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0030par0048	He's got you, he's got you, he's got you, he's got you, he's got you, he's
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0027par0049	Members of parliament, during the Adıyaman period of Adıyaman (Adıyaman) Adıyaman (AK PARTI) power, the farmer was given cash support -- 626 million TL -- 626 trillion -- in ten years. Samsat's first stage and pinegasy irrigation were completed during our time. It was a dream for years, and the foundation of the Cetintepe Dam was laid, and the first tender of the Kokali Dam is held on January 16th.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0030par0050	How many million cubic meters, how many million cubic meters of storage space? Shall I tell him?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0027par0051	Besni Dam, Steelhan watering, Baby, Aslanoglu watering, Gömuk Dam project work is almost over, so hopefully there will be tenders in 2014. Work continues in Sincik Arıkonak, Gerger Bizhisar, Çelikhan Yeşiltepe, Lakehead Balkar and Steel, Besni Akpınar ponds, planning continues at the Grandchay Dam. We'll see and see when the water-hungry lands get their hot water, with the power of the AK PARTI. 800,000 acres of land, with all this work being done, will be met with production and plenty, I hope. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to thank our Minister Mehdi Eker and the Ministry bureaucrats, wish them well, and salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0031par0055	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0056	Mr. President, the orator has distorted the services of farmers during the 57th Reich, giving lies and false information. I want a promise to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0031par0057	Here you go, Mr. Honey. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0061	Goebbels says: "The truth doesn't matter, if you repeat the lie 40 times, it's as if it's real. " The truth is, in the history of the Republic, our farmer, our brothers who are busy with livestock, for the first time, he's been paid directly in his pocket, the middlemen, loan sharks, and political scouts have been eliminated. By now, the average inflation between 2002-2013 is 160 percent. The farmer's wheat must increase by 160 per cent compared to the 2002 price. He was paying for about 450-500 liras of wheat, the government of that time. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) 230. Now it's about 500-600 liras. That's the government's robbery from the missing farmer's pocket. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Last year, sunflower cost 1,500 lira, today it's £1,100.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0033par0067	Not $1,100, Minister, 800 lira!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0068	The difference is from the farmer's pocket that the government's policies committed robbery.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0033par0069	But Mehmet Erdogan wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0070	Just a minute, dear! In 2002, when it comes to animalism, an oath bag was $6.5, 48 lira today; the difference is that the government's policies were from the farmer's pocket. In 2002, when you compare the price of the drug with the price of the drug, there is a 1 per cent difference between 3 per cent and 7.5%. The difference is that the government committed a robbery out of the farmer's pocket from the well-being that the 57th government gave the farmer during his reign.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0034par0073	Thank you, Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0074	Why, the fertilizer price is October...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0035par0075	1,500 lira.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0076	...it goes up to 2,000 liras...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0036par0077	Mr. Honey, your time is up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0032par0079	...after the time of October goes down to a thousand liras, 800 liras, 700 liras? That's the difference you've given to the beaters.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0036par0081	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0036par0083	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0084	Mr. Orator has been particularly picky about the support provided by the AK PARTY Group and its government to the Romanians, and especially the money that the farmer is robbing out of his pocket.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0038par0085	That's right, it's not teasing, it's truth.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0086	I'd like to respond to sarcasm.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0039par0087	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0091	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to state the real numbers here, folks. However, while expressing the actual numbers, please listen sincerely, with warmth. I mean, without any trouble at all...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0040par0093	Your medicine, your fertilizer, your barley, your masoth...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0094	You asked for these prices. Look, in 2002, we took over agricultural revenues in Turkey at $23.7 billion, we tripled that in ten years, we raised $62 billion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0041par0096	Ten years ago, you were ten years younger.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0097	Seventy-nine years, we've doubled to three in ten years.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0041par0098	The world is growing!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0099	In agriculture, it's national per capita: look, we're calculating the money that comes into the farmer's pocket in agriculture.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0042par0100	They're conglomerates, not farmers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0101	It was $1,064 per person, so we raised it to $3,591.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0043par0103	In one night? In one night?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0104	Again, ten years ago in agricultural yields... [[Noises]] Ten years ago, Turkey was Europe's fourth, the 11th in the world. At this point, since 2008, Turkey has become the first of Europe and the seventh of the world. The AK PARTY brought this to power.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0044par0107	What number are we in on per person's income?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0037par0108	In the last 11 years, our agricultural exports have increased fourfold. We bought it at $4 billion, raised it to $16 billion. Again, in the last 11 years, our farmer's cash-free grant has reached 60 billion. Either the numbers are out there, our people already know, and they know ten years ago and ten years later, and they're very good observers. At the coming point, the AK PARTY is well aware of the support and contributions that it has given to our farmer, our peasant. No matter how much you deny it here, these are the numbers. This time, for these figures, I thank our Minister of Agriculture and his entire team, especially Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the EC PARTY government, Prime Minister of the EC PARTI government.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0045par0112	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0046par0113	Mr. Aydın, there's a lot of lines in the ministry, so wait a minute!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0047par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0045par0115	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0047par0116	The preacher teased me, stating that my words were false and false.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0048par0117	No, there's no robbery in the farmer's pocket.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0047par0118	Please, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0119	Mr. Honey, he didn't say anything like that, he just expressed the numbers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0047par0120	No, sir, he said he was going out to correct the numbers I said. But only in his own words.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0121	Here, let me give it to you, Mr. Honey, because look, other friends want a word, and we need to put a stop to it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0050par0122	Mr. President, if the farmer had a robbery in his pocket, would that be the numbers? It wouldn't.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0123	Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0050par0124	I tried to express it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0125	Minister of Food and Agriculture...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0126	Mr. President, I've told you about the AKP government's robbery from the farmer's pocket.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0127	Okay.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0128	The gentleman came out to answer it, didn't give him an answer, said in his own words that my words were wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0129	It's his answer, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0130	But you can't leave it like this!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0131	Mr. Honey, thank you. Let me give you a minute, an explanation...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0133	Sir, no, I want to earn my thanks after we talk. Please, two minutes...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0134	Mr. Honey, I'll give you a statement from your position.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0135	Mr. President, look, I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0052par0136	Mr. President, I've stated that the farmer didn't have a robbery in his pocket, and I didn't make a fuss. I mean, if the farmer had a robbery in his pocket, would we be able to get those numbers? We couldn't.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0137	Mr. Honey didn't say anything about your person, but...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0138	It's not me, I...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0139	Would you excuse me? He didn't pick on you, he didn't just explain the numbers. But if you insist, I'll give it to you... but please let this be the last time.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0141	Very little, I'll use half your time.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0049par0142	Okay, two minutes...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0144	Dear friends, put your hands on your conscience, where does a farmer live? He lives in the village, doesn't he? The population of people living in Turkey's village dropped 18 per cent during the AKP government. Why? He planted it in the field, could not afford it, needed food, was condemned to work for minimum wage.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0053par0145	It's a sign of urbanization, an indication of industrialization, is that possible?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0146	It's the most obvious feature. Here, 8.5 per cent of the agricultural area has migrated people from Iconia, and Iconia has migrated around 8.5 per cent; that's the most important fact. I expected Mr. Aydın to say, yes, the numbers you're saying are wrong, the truth is this. I didn't study the numbers he gave me, but the fact is that after the farmer was victimized without planting, the supporters were given hose money from the state, providing the money of the government to people who were working on livestock, chicken farming, and veal in the developed animal farms.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0054par0147	What if it was a runt? What if it was a robbery?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0051par0148	You sold beef for $8 billion and the farmer couldn't pay it back for $3.5 billion. You've named it after it, you've stripped it out of the farmer's pocket, and it's a fact that everyone knows it. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0054par0150	Don't confuse it with the past!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0055par0151	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0056par0152	Mr. President, Mr. Bal has just spoken that if you tell a lie forty times, it will become a reality. In his manner, he referred to my speech.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0055par0153	Your deputy chief of the group responded on your behalf, Mr. Erdogan. Thank you, thank you. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 Second speaker, Tülay Bakır, Samsun MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0057par0190	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting in 2014. I salute your high council. The main aims of agricultural policies are to meet the need to feed the growing population, reduce the risk of production, provide adequate and regular income for employees in the industry, improve the rural sector, provide goods for consumers and increase exports. Our ministry's effective and stable policy and agricultural national income reached $62.5 billion in 2012 from $23.7 billion in 2002. Our agricultural exports have risen from $4 billion to $16 billion. Our ministry supports a variety of direct income supports, especially in order to contribute to the solution of the agricultural sector's primary problems, to help our farmers operate in market conditions. $1.8 billion in support for our farmers in 2002 was raised to 9 billion in 2013. In 11 years, a total of $60 billion in cash was given agricultural support. Mazot support was launched in 2003, a total of 4.7 billion, fertilizer support was launched in 2005, and a total of 4.2 billion were supported. In 2002, 83 million dollars in animal support increased by 26 times in the last decade to 2.5 billion. The total amount of support is 4.4 per cent in 2002; 28 per cent in 2013. The total interest rate is subsidized in animal support starting in 2010. In this way, in the last decade, the number of cattle and cattle companies over 50 heads has increased by 548 per cent and 27.865 per cent. The loan interest used by the Agriculture Bank was reduced by 59 per cent in 2002, and in some areas, interest was zeroed in some areas over the years. The amount of loans used by the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans totaled from $529m in 2002 to 22.1 billion in 2012. The repayment rate for loans increased to 37 per cent for Agriculture Bank, 71 per cent for agricultural loans, 97 per cent and 98 per cent in our term. Fifty per cent of the policy price against natural disasters is guaranteed by agricultural insurance practices paid by the state and our farmer's products. In this scope, $740m in premium support and $756m in damage have been paid in the last six years. With organic farming support, our farmers were paid 143 million liras. The number of crops has increased by 50%, and organic agriculture has reached 615,000 hectares from 90 thousand hectares. 14 million liras have been supported for good agricultural practices. In our era, entrepreneurs who have established agricultural industrial facilities are given 50% grants in the first step of rural development. Our ministry has reached 100 percent of the use of chickpeas, lentils, tripods developed by research institutes, and 95 percent of wheat and barley. Supported seed production has increased from 145 thousand tons to 647 thousand tons. The use of native seedling contributes to our economy at around $1 billion. In the 401 years of land collection, only 450,000 hectares have been massed, while in the period of our rule, 4 million hectares have been massed and 2 million hectares have continued. 30 agricultural basins that can be produced with ecological and highest quality in our work have been determined. 10,000 vets and agricultural engineers, launched by our ministry under TARGEL, serve our farmers in the understanding of family medicine. Our studies have reduced agricultural drug use by 20% in the past decade, and we have become a country in Europe that uses at least the least agricultural medicine in the unit area. Our rights health inspections reached 39,000 in 2002 and 413 in 2012. Our number of auditors has been raised from 1,500 to 4,732. Our people consume safe food in the standards of the European Union. Mr. President, our ministry aims at an agriculture that continues to sustain our party's vision of 2023, has an illegal domestic product of 150 billion dollars, exports of 40 billion dollars, land collections of 14 million hectares, waterable 8.5 million hectares. I wish our budget to be good and good luck to our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0058par0205	Thank you. The third speaker is Commander Matlı, Bursa MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0059par0209	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the AK PARTY Group on the 2014 budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute your high council with love. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our member of the group here has just expressed the numbers. I, as a matter of fact, don't want to rephrase the numbers. But I also want to stress in particular that you can interpret some things, but the facts are the only ones that don't change, are numbers. So these numbers are very clearly concrete indicators that do not allow for a different interpretation. So, here we are, looking at, we're all seeing the development of Turkey in 11 years of AK PARTI power, and we're seeing it in numbers. This is a very clear fact that does not allow for different interpretations of different areas. In agriculture, we see the same facts, the same numbers. Yes, agriculture, our illegal national product has increased more than three floors over ten years. When we say national income, the increase of national income has always been a key priority for the rulings of the Republic of Turkey, and in that sense, increasing the national income of the agricultural sector by 3.5 times has been achieved in the time of the AK PARTI power; it is indeed a great success. So, in that sense, I would really like to express that I find the criticism of these things unfair. We call it exports, we've increased exports over four times in agricultural products, food products. But more than that, I would like to express in particular that we live in a period of clear foreign trade in the trade of agricultural products, although perhaps the most critical issue of the AK PARTI government today is the current issue, which we are most criticized for.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0060par0211	Were you poisoned by the food you ate at the ministry, Mr. Commander?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0059par0212	Dear lawmakers, how did we get these?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0060par0213	There are reports at the ministry that you've been poisoned by the food you've been eating, confirm that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0059par0214	How did we get these? We provided them with production growth, efficiency, rational support policies. Yes, these quantitative increases occurred, of course, with the increase in production. We're looking at milk production of 8.5 million tons ten years ago, and today it's over 17.5 million tons.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0060par0215	They took you to the hospital, you were poisoned by food at the Food Ministry. Tell me if you've been poisoned by the food you ate at the ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0059par0216	When we talk about red meat production, we all see that 420,000 tons of red meat are over 900,000 tons, but the most important thing here is that we get a lot of criticism about animal numbers -- you're criticizing us on this -- but in this country, we've taken important steps in this country, by making production efficiency, and we've made openings, and I want to express that in particular. Dear lawmakers, as of my sector, as a bait maker and as a chicken farmer, I'd like to share with you some data on the industry. In 2002, Turkey was producing 5 million tonnes of food, and by the time it arrived in 2013, the number of 5 million tons has increased to 15 million tonnes. Now, I'd like to express in particular that Mr. orator has just mentioned, the bait price is very expensive, the manufacturer, the farmer, the animal man, can't feed. So, how did this 5 million tons of bait go up to 15 million tons? I'd like to stress that in particular. Yes, with this 15 million tons of production, the food industry's turnover has increased to $7.5 billion. Today, we are in the third position in Europe in the production of bait, thank God, we are in the 10th place in the world, and the production of bait continues to grow as a double digit each year. These numbers are so striking that maybe some of our friends in the country don't want to see opposition, but the world sees it, and the world looks at it with envy, and says: The world bait convention will be held in 2016. The European Bait Congress is coming to Turkey's Bait Industry Association, saying that Turkey should organise the Bait Congress in 2016. It is a success with its government and its industrialist. We're looking at rice production, we're looking at egg production, we've achieved incredible success. In 2002, we exported only $12 million in rice production. When it came to 2012, it came to $560 million. There was a goal to export egg and chicken, a few years ago, when the sector put its 2023 vision ahead of it, to export $1 billion in 2023. But this number was only done in 2013, and the industry says: "I'm sorry, we made a mistake, we made a mistake, we're returning this mistake, we're now revising this goal as $3 billion. We're number 1 in the world in un exports, we're number 2 in the world when we look at pasta exports, and this is a situation that took place at the time of the AK PARTI rule. And in that sense, I salute you, but I'd like to say one last word. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First of all, while we're here to bring criticism to the government, I'd like to say that there's been some disrespect to the work of the industry here because the industry has achieved these export targets all over the world. I wish you all the best in our budget, and I wish you all the best in the world.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0061par0225	Thank you, Mr. Matli. The fourth speaker is İbrahim Yiğit, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0062par0229	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget for the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill of Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency. I salute you all. In 2002, when the state monopoly of tobacco and alcohol market regulatory was officially terminated, it was established by Law 4733, with administrative and financial autonomy to regulate tobacco and alcohol markets, which are of strategic importance in the country's economy and in the social sense. The institution has an economic size of around $34 billion. Its basic function in tobacco and alcohol markets is to register, regulate all sector activities, including production, imports, exports, packaging, storage, sales, distribution and advertising, and ensure systematic monitoring and auditing until it reaches the final consumer. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, tobacco production is made in six geographical regions in our country. Our country continues to lead the world in the production and export of song-type tobacco. Our exports of tobacco took place in 2012 as $427m, and were held at $324m by the end of June 2013. Dear lawmakers, the volume of the alcohol market is around $8 billion. In our country, a total of 281 companies -- including 111 importers, 165 producers, including five producers and importers -- operate in the alcohol market. As of the end of September 2013, tobacco exports were also held at approximately $335m. The Ethyl alcohol market in our country is 250 million dollars, and the methane market is around $600 million in transactions. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, are also faced with deaths from the production of fake alcoholic beverages produced by methanol all over the world. Therefore, important and deterrent measures have been taken by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency to prevent the use of methanol in the world's first form of counterfeit alcohol production. Across the country, there is a total of 190,811 institutional vendors in the marketing and distribution of products in the tobacco products, alcohol and alcoholic beverages industry as of October 20, 2013. Dear lawmakers have been prepared and implemented with the Ministry of Health to create awareness of the damage to tobacco products. On the other hand, smuggling tobacco and tobacco products directly affects public order, causing significant losses in tax revenues. In order to prevent smuggling, protect society's order and fight effectively in this matter, the Ministry of Finance, the Association for Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing, and other relevant public institutions, the Anti-Trafficking Action Plan has been drafted. In addition, some institutions related to tobacco and tobacco products have been funded by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Organization, which ensures that trafficking and public health can be maintained. Packing and tagging measures are also the best practice in the European region by the World Health Organization. According to estimates, the 2014 budget is estimated at 73m,600,000 dollars for the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency, which does not receive a share of the overall budget. From the date it was founded, the institution transferred money to around $275m worth of treasure, including 2013. As I end my words here, I wish you all the best in the 2014 budget for our country.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0063par0243	Thank you. The fifth speaker is Nurcan Dalbudak, Denizli MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0064par0247	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2014. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. When we say that the 2001 crisis and the dozens of crises and collapses that we've experienced, let's sort out the factors that have caused us to rise up in some way, the concept of the family is undoubtedly at first. Family is the most important institution in society. We've always used these expressions together: strong women, strong family, strong society. In basic education, 98 per cent have been reached, 68 per cent in secondary school, 35 per cent in higher education. In addition to the labour force, 31 per cent were reached and 28.5 per cent were reached in employment figures. I think the right policies and women's employment rates will be much higher now. In addition, with the problem of the headscarf raised in public, the injustice was ended, and the opportunities were evened out. For this, I praise my Lord, and thank you again to our Prime Minister, who has eliminated all obstacles in this way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2002, there were only 10 women's guesthouses in all Turkey. We called violence zero tolerance. At the moment, a total of 125 guesthouses, 90 of the Women's Status General Directorate, 3 of the NGOs, 32 of the local governments. We've activated their initial admission units and their anti-violence and monitoring centers. It is our wish that no woman should see violence and not have to have these institutions, but when a negative happens, the compassionate, warm hand of the state will always be on the side of the victim and the oppressed. Whatever we want for our children, we want the same thing for our 12,694 children who remain in the institutions of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. No matter how comfortable our homes and homes may be, the best environment is with the family. We said, "The family will return to the family, and we provided 45,353 children with family support for their families and relatives with an average of $538 a month. In 2013, our 1,782 children were placed in foster care with the Project of the Messengers of the Heart, and our 367 children under protective care were sent to private schools. As many as we can cry in this universe, we are as many people as we can understand the pain of the other. We raised it to 20 billion euros in 2013, when family aid, housing, burning, education, free textbooks, education benefits, social aid and services were transferred to $1 billion,376m in 2002. On conditional training, we helped 2 million students to move 40,000 disabled students to schools. We provide regular cash to 268 thousand women who have passed away, 49,000 families who have sent their children or their wives to the army. One of the most important factors that allows our disabled to be active in social life is their employment participation. We see better and better what kind of miracles they're doing in work and in social life, and we understand that we're doing a very good job of implementing that potential. According to the 2012-2013 EMSS, our total number of disabled people are 11.180, while the number of employees employed in the private sector is 80,837. Those who were left behind by our martyrs who gave their lives to this country without thinking, we said, "It is our martyrs' trust." In 2013, we extended the right of employment to the relatives of the martyrs and again to the veterans in order to ensure unity and integrity of the country; we gave their fellow martyrs two jobs to one of our veterans. We have implemented many other arrangements to the right to free travel, to interest-free mortgages, educational aid, water, electricity pay reductions. I wish you all the best in the 2014 budget of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0065par0258	Thank you. The sixth speaker is St. Sibel Gönul, Aldeli MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0066par0263	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I wish our central budget law talks in 2014 were a blessing and a blessing to our country, our nation, our democracy and our economy. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart for everyone who's worked on drafting the budget bill. In both budget law talks, during all the legislative years of the 24th term, especially under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we found that there were statements that would be unbecoming to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, even acts of violence. It really upsets us. I wish that such statements, actions, which do not suit both politics and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be left at least in the last year of the 24th century and in the new year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as it is known, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy became a separate executive ministry in 2011. In an effort to increase family and community well-being, the Ministry of the Ministry, which has begun with its mission to produce, implement, and observe fair and supply-oriented social policies with the idea that the disadvantaged segments are a priority for the entire community, has shown its obligation to become a social law state, as stated in the Constitution. Our ministry's efforts to strengthen the social infrastructure of the state are increasing year after year. As we look at our ministry's budget this year, we see an increase of 16 per cent compared to 2013. In short, when we look at the welfare program, we see that justice in the income distribution is best improved by reaching out to our women, our disabled, our elderly, our poor citizens. If we take a look at social policies -- maybe not all of these things in five minutes -- but we've also reached 1 million 240 thousand poor citizens, again, with general health insurance applications, including 250 euros a month, 250 euro a month, and 250 euro a month during military service for women who send their wives to the army, and 250 euros a month for families in need. Using IT applications effectively in the field of social welfare, we created poor inventory and exported all social aid processes to electronic media. However, together with TUBITAK and TÜİK., we have implemented the Score Formal Project (TIBİK) to determine the cross-country and regional differences of social welfare users. We've integrated the point formulas into the integrated system, and we're experimenting with real household data. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the budget is an important document showing the state's spending year-on-year. During budget talks, it has been said many times that the budget is particularly short, half the community is prepared without consideration. In particular, it is impossible to say that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is incomplete and does not consider half the society, and is not sensitive to the equitable budget. However, I must point out that the Ministry is working on this and that the most sensitive ministry is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. However, we should also know that Turkey's Tenth Development Plan, which spans 2014 and 2018 years in the coming period, has established awareness of the equitable budget, the goal and principles for developing social gender-sensitive budgets, and therefore, in the coming days, I would like to point out that the Women's Status General Directorate, especially in the local region, will be working on projects related to equitable budget practices, and, again, our Commission will set up a subcommittee budget for this period, which will also explain the report to relevant institutions in Turkey in the coming days. Congressmans, in five minutes... yes, I'm coming to the end of the deadline, but I want to tell you that we want our nation to see who's just giving speeches for this country, who's putting them on stone, who's producing services. The achievements we've achieved over the past ten years are not the success of the AK PARTY governments, but the success of my beloved nation, the success of Turkey, the success of the republic. With these feelings, I salute you all, and wish you all peace.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0067par0275	Thank you. Seventh speaker Halide İncekara, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Incekara. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0280	Mr. President, I have made a promise, sir, on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2014. Now, I want to start with a joke again because I've been listening for an hour or two, and we've done the best in all of our conversations, and we've done the best, and no one's doing the best of it. I'm listening to the opposition: you didn't do anything. You robbed it and turned it into onions. May God destroy you. But let's settle with a joke.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0069par0283	Look, but there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0284	Now, when Basal's belly is hungry in the street, as he passes by the restaurants, he writes in one of the restaurants, saying, "Eat, drink, and let your grandson pay your bill. Who shall he pay for it?" He enters, and drinks it for free, and drinks it. They will bring a reckoning on their way out. No, the grandson was going to pay for me. But, Popeye, this is your grandfather's account. [[Laughing from the lines of the AK PARTY]] Now We have multiplied for you that which ye have cut off, and We have fed those whom ye have fed, and We have clothed them with that which ye have bare.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0070par0288	Everyone was dying of pain before you! There was nothing in this country! You did everything!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0071par0289	Keep your eyes on your knees, what do I say?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0290	Now, you may be in denial...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0072par0291	Who fed your grandfather, your father?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0292	Well, it's not a red shawl, Mr. President, it's no use covering the red blanket, they're stealing from our conversation, as you can see when we're engaged in verbal assault.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0073par0293	Speak within the limits of discipline! And we're gonna show you other reds from here? It's a shame, it's a shame.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0074par0294	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0295	Yeah. Now, what Mr. Secretary has done...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0075par0297	It's ugly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0298	What's ugly, Congressman? The ugly one?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0075par0299	What do you mean, red? What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0300	No, what is it? Today, all the lady friends...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0075par0301	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0302	...they're protesting against the violent tendencies and blasphemy of the gentlemen in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0076par0303	Learn to raise your hand at your own party and then tell me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0068par0304	Now, there's no next one. It's an attitude. That's not why you're doing this... you're interrupting every speaker when you get up here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0076par0305	You're cutting too.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0077par0306	When have I ever spoken, when have I ever interrupted?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0078par0307	Mr. Tüykara, please say what you have to say in a word to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0079par0308	My fellow lawmakers, our Minister Fatma Şahin, has served as head of a department, one, two, three, four, five, since the day he served as the executive minister of 24 hours in the presidency of our Ministry of Ministers, Fatma Şahin Ma'am. Our friends have told you what you need with numbers and numbers, but if you want to know the details, here are the numbers and values of the work that were done to be enough to fit on the lists to be a few books. First, I wish them success in the new mayoral era, and then I wish them success in the future. I believe that when a woman's hand touches the city, we'll see what can change in a city. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] By the way, what he did at the Ministry... The ministry is a place where you go to the service of all disadvantaged people, to the rescue, to the rescue, to the phone, to leave their sleep unfinished, and to leave their meals at their table and go to the service. From a distance, you did that, and you couldn't do that. It's not where you call it, it's a place where we thank them for everything they do, it's a place where we honor them, it's a place of appreciation. I consider it a bit illegal and unfair to ignore the rights and efforts of people you don't know or know. I won't say anything more. Disrupting every speaker's influence has become the morality of some lawmakers. Especially when the population in the village sees the growth of the population in agriculture as the development of technology, the increase in industrialization, the increase in modernization, the soil in agriculture...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0080par0312	The price of diesel, the price of fertilizer, the price of medicine; how would you know?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0081par0313	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0079par0314	Well, today is the day of the National Movement Party, so I congratulate you, and you keep making promises!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0080par0315	How do you associate that with manners, ma'am?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0081par0316	You tell us everything from there, and we won't say anything!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0079par0317	I thank you and thank you very much for his work with the Ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0082par0319	Thank you, Mr. Incekara. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0083par0322	Mr. President, I've never said a word or said a word in my life. But I condemn the person who makes the meaning as we curse by showing me the red scarf, number one. Second of all, I don't think this would have happened if they'd been able to raise their hands before they put on that scarf, for those of you who used to swear dirty words in their own party. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0084par0324	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0085par0325	Thank you. No matter where the blasphemy comes from, no matter where it comes from, no matter who it comes from, we're standing in front of him as the Court. There's no targets here, we've never targeted a party, we believe we shouldn't target anyone. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0086par0329	Mr. President, by taunting the speech I just made, saying that the orator MPs need to speak in a manner of speaking, followed by saying that ejaculation in the villages should be related to industrialization.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0087par0330	I never said that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0086par0331	...and he made a statement to accuse us of indecency.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0087par0332	It has nothing to do with...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0088par0333	He didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0087par0334	It has nothing to do with...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0089par0335	No, sir...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0336	Dear Honey...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0089par0337	Get me the records, I'll...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0338	Mr. Honey, please, I beg you, there's nothing personal about you, but if you'd like...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0089par0339	Sir, did you just...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0340	Let's get the transcripts...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0089par0341	Please bring it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0342	Okay, let's talk later.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0089par0343	Please bring it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0344	Thank you so much for understanding.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0091par0345	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0346	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0091par0349	Mr. President, today, I believe, you've announced it with a press release. Our female deputies in particular wear red shawls. I want to express in particular that this has never targeted anyone or any group. Here, under the House's roof, they've created a reactionary situation to prevent violence from being used in the honor of this nation, to use a language that is worthy of its dignity. They didn't mean anyone or any group. So instead of all of us, all of us, as lawmakers, talking here as 550 MPs, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, we're all going to have to pay attention to our style, our literature, because we're representatives of the nation, and I'm going to say that we need to use a national language. I thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0352	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0092par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0354	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0092par0355	Mr. Ahmet, I think we're missing something. He can't point it at us by showing it like that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0090par0356	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0093par0357	No, no, no, nothing like that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0094par0358	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0095par0359	But you all saw it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0094par0360	No...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0095par0361	He can't hold it. It's shameful!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0094par0362	Aren't we gonna make a joke?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0095par0363	That's a dirty thing to do!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0096par0364	Thank you. Copy that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0095par0366	Let's get down to brass tacks.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0097par0367	Aren't we gonna make a joke? That has nothing to do with it!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0098par0368	Look at you, for God's sake! Jesus Christ, that's a joke! He's got a sense of humor!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0099par0369	Thank you. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 The eighth speaker is Mehmet Süleyman Hamzaoğlu, Diyarbakır MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0100par0405	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the health department budget for 2014. I salute your committee. Health care is one of the most important criteria that makes a country habitable. The ideal health system must be accessible, quality, efficient and sustainable. It is vital that individuals have proper, timely and evenly access to the health care they need. At the end of 2002, when our government took office, the state of our health system required radical changes from service presentation to financing, from human power to the information system. At the beginning of the new millennium, the World Health Organization said, in 2002, the performance, health consequences, financial protection and patient satisfaction of the Turkish health sector was the lowest in both the OECD countries and the European region. In 2003, the Health Change Programme was introduced to ensure effective, efficient and decent health care and financial sustainability with the power of the EC PARTI, and the steps that facilitated the lives of our citizens in health care have been taken with courage and determination. So far, our rare speed and level of health indicators have been improved and exhibited a global achievement. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have reached the level of health care and health care that is available to everyone today. The number of people working in health has risen from 256,000 to 516 thousand, the imbalances in the distribution of health personnel across the country have been removed, and resources have been used effectively and efficiently. The number of beds in intensive care has risen from 869 to 11.130, from 35 to 390, while the number of beds qualified has risen from 6 to 38 per cent, and is intended to increase the quality of beds in 2017 to over 90 per cent. Emergency health services have been facilitated and have been given 112 emergency health care in the country along with our cities, with significant achievements in emergency services in snow-pallet ambulances, sick-sized snowmobiles, special-equipped ambulances, land, air and sea ambulances. From the days when our citizens were required to administer serums to their patients, when patients were taken hostage in hospitals, they were now given free health care and served by aircraft and helicopter ambulances. Medical care and rehabilitation can now be performed at home for bed - dependent patients. In the first nine months of 2013, 346 thousand people were reached. In vaccinating services, our country implements the largest inoculation programme. In 2002, the inoculation rate was 78 per cent, while today it reached 97 per cent. For the first time in the world, our country has been subjected to a karacode-backed electronic vaccine tracking and cold chain tracking system. In the anti-smoking programme, our country is the first and only country to meet all of the World Health Organization's MPOWER criteria. Occupational medicine and occupational safety services are widely distributed in matters of employee safety. Risk analysis in working environments aims to reduce the risks for working health. Studies continue on the construction of city hospitals on all sides of our country, which are being built to improve the quality of health care and balance cost-effective health care. Again, an important project, health tourism-related revenues have been tax-freed, a foreign clinic for patients serving in six languages has been established, and it is possible to establish and operate a health centre in housing facilities. Healthy marriage and healthy birthing programmes are popularized in women's health, and the practice of the mother is strengthened. AS AK PARTY, our sole goal is to offer our citizens the best of the service, so that we can move the level of satisfaction in health care from 39% to 76 per cent. I wish the health department's 2014 budget to be good, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0101par0417	Thank you. The ninth speaker is Sevim Savarer, İstanbul MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0102par0422	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group on the health department budget of 2014. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Countries strive to offer their citizens the best health care in a sustainable way. As soon as the EC PARTY came to power, it took significant steps to ensure that health care is presented more effectively, efficiently, and in line with rights. As a result of the selfless efforts of all health workers, including our Prime Minister and our ministers, it was soon successful in health. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have increased the budget in 2014 by more than 11 per cent than 2013, and the increase has been 5.5 times higher since 2002. Of course, it is important to see if the outputs from the expenditures are expected. In this context, I'd like to give you some numerical data. The expected life expectancy in Turkey has risen from 76 years, baby mortality rate in 2002 from 31.5/1000 to 7.4, mother mortality rate in 2012; mother mortality has dropped from 64 to 15.4, prenatal care providers have increased from 70 percent to 90 percent in 2002; birth rate in the hospital has increased from 62% to 97 percent in 2002; baby monitoring rate has increased from 62% to 97 per cent; baby-friend hospital number has increased from 141 to 990 per cent in 2002. Likewise, significant distances have been made in the fight against infectious diseases and immunization. In addition to the chicken pox vaccine in the vaccine calendar, the number of vaccins can be preserved by vaccine has been 13. With lowering the burden of infectious diseases, there were also significant opportunities for early treatment for the conditions that initially led to non-contagious and chronic diseases, mid-life and later death and injury. In this scope, necessary measures are taken to protect the public's health by applying the fight against obesity, fighting tobacco, preventing diabetes, preventing heart disease and control of vascular disease, healthy feeding and mobile life, fighting salt and mental health control programmes. Again, from the beginning of 2010, home health care was initiated. Our ministry is given to bed-dependent patients, patients with KOAH and other respiratory systems, those with advanced muscle disease, and terminal cancer patients in the home of patients. So far, 346 thousand patients have been given home health care and today's number of people are up to 180. Mr. President, there have been significant increases in health and manpower during our time of power. Again, during the EC PARTY, there was an amendment to the 1954 Nursery Act and detailed job descriptions of the profession in line with international norms. Under Article 1 of the Nursery Act, in order to become a nurse in our country, you have to graduate from the licensing programmes. Due to the lack of number of nurses, nursing programmes have been decided to continue in health vocational upper secondary schools. However, for the past two years, the number of nursing students available to formal and private health vocational upper secondary schools has reached the Ministry's 2023 goals. Just because she's been served with high school graduate nurses doesn't mean it's true. It was also unfair to graduate high school graduates and graduates of the same title. With the latest arrangement, the high school graduates will also serve as assistant nurses. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let the people live so that the state can live. We will continue to work for healthy generations by accepting the basis of service first. With this feeling, with thoughts, I wish the health department's 2014 budget to be better, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0103par0432	Thank you. The tenth speaker is Tülay Babushcu, Balıkesir MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0104par0436	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the budgetary budget bill of 2014 on the budget of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. The most important cause of mass death in the world is infectious diseases, as well as people's health, as well as countries' economics and tourism. Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, the outside window of the Ministry of Health, performs health inspections, travel health care services, tele health services, ship's men's health care services. The institution is taking and implementing all necessary health measures at international entry points, land, air and sea border gates and Turkish throats to prevent international importance from entering our country as part of health inspection services. In 2013, 34,193 ships were granted free practice, 34,68 ships, and 3,075 ship health certificates. As part of travel health care services, he informs citizens of the health risks they may face on the trip and administers the necessary vaccines and protective medications. It organises international vaccines and drug certificates, which are mandatory for entering some countries. In 2013, 31,726 people were given travel health care, 25.359 yellow fever vaccines, 3.342 typhoid vaccines. 5,673 people who have traveled to countries where malaria has been seen have been given malaria protection medications to protect themselves from illness. As part of tele health services, 1.100 people were given a distance health benefit by the institution in 2013. As part of health care services, shipmates are being treated for health and health certificates of international and national and international vehicles, as well as medical examinations of ship's men. The health certificates of 37,466 shipmen were issued in 2013. All these services are carried out by 32 travel health centres, 1 tele health centre, 43 control centers, 16 ship's men's health centers and 2 throat health inspectors. The institution, which co-operates with the World Health Organization, the International Maritime Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and other national and international organisations, is making official collections of health care from foreign ports to Turkish ports, crossing Turkish throats, with which the country contributes to health care services. From 2005 to today, the Ministry of Health has received about $700m worth of medical equipment for medical equipment, which has been set up by the Ministry of Health, and has been delivered to needy hospitals. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish that the 2014 budget would bring blessings to our country and our beloved nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0105par0445	Thank you. The 11th speaker is Ulir Can, Eskişehir MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0106par0450	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the 2014 budget of our Ministry of Health's Turkish Medicine and Medical Devices. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been subject to a continuous transformation and change of the health system, which has been so far behind the age since it took office, that it has become a system of persecution for the nation. The reformary provisions of our Prime Minister's public service with his understanding of the right to serve him have raised his health satisfaction rates from 35 per cent to 75 per cent today. Yesterday, this saintly nation, who had to sell its field, its animal, to buy medicine from the pharmacy, can make an appointment with any doctor she wants on a phone, get treatment whenever she wants, and take her medicine from any pharmacy she wants. And while he's doing all this, he doesn't have a prescription anymore. Thanks to the E-Prescription system, it's shown on the doctor's drug pharmacist's computer with a single key. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have come to this day to protect our citizens and pharmacists together in the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industry, one of the most important feet of the health system. While we were delivering the drug to our citizens, we broke down the wall of bureaucracy between the pharmacist and our citizen and opened up all the pharmacies to our citizens again. With our latest arrangement, we've secured tomorrows of our pharmacy and pharmacists. As it is known, we've set a standard for every 3,000 people to fall into a pharmacy. And by protecting our new graduates with this law, we've arranged for them to open their way. The money that our citizen spent on health care in the past period was 30 percent of the total health care spending, and today it has dropped by 15 per cent. Mr. President, in the last ten years, we've taken important steps that have led medicine and pharmaceuticals to far-reaching points. One of them is the practice of medicines known as the ITS, the Medication Stalker System, and ▪Karekod. This system prevents unconscious drug use, while allowing patients to monitor the treatment process more efficiently. If this nation can get the same medicine for less after ten years, if it is easier to reach the drug, it is expected to be appreciated by anyone who says, "We are citizens" or "we are nationalists." Mr. President, those who do not want to see the point of today are the ones who once sentenced the nation to drug queues in the USSR. It is those who accuse us of segregation, of discrimination, of ten years ago, who have separated the nation from the SEC, of the BUG-KUR. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been in the basements of the SEC hospitals for years, waiting in line for days to buy medicine. This nation paid the same tax, voted for the same crate, but did not receive equal service from its government. Without money in his pocket, without seeing the doctor who needs to be treated, this nation was deprived of human service. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, every step we've taken so far has been weighed by our scales of conscience in accordance with the measure of fairness. In the same way, this success is a work of self - sacrificing efforts by all of our health workers, pharmacists, and those who serve in this sector who respect their profession in health. It's not a random success to come to these points in health, of course, it's a result of the value of our Prime Minister and the AK PARTI's power to the nation, which, of course, has shared fate with the nation and is concerned with its nation's problems. When we call it health reform, it is impossible for those who can't even imagine the point that has come today to understand the people's gratitude for the EC PARTY. To understand today, you have to read yesterday well. As today, only those who read it correctly have the honor of serving the nation. To deny yesterday, to ignore the painful memories of the past, is the work of those who have no dreams for the future, who do not deserve better for their nation. I salute the Grand Assembly with these thoughts and feelings, wishing that our 2014 budget would be good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0107par0460	Thank you. The 12th speaker is Ismail Tamer, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0108par0463	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss the health department's 2014 Public Hospital Institution budget. I salute you all. As it is known, 87 public hospitals, including oral dental centres, including second and third step health services in 81 districts as of 2/11/2012, have been established. What was our purpose here? His ability to present health care in all parts of the country at the highest levels of Rantabl, the highest quality, efficient, accessible, and rightfully accessible, was to perform the faster and more effective presentation of services, and so on. It was our goal to bring patient rights and patient-working satisfaction to the highest level at the same time and to monitor and assess the activities of appropriate health facilities along with Ministry policies. We created all of this with 273,675 personnel. Of course, considering the physical structures of the old hospitals at the presentation of health care in Turkey -- as I mentioned earlier -- we are now building city hospitals in 29 areas, under the leadership of our prime minister. Here I am, visually speaking to you: for the first time, I would like to show you an advance project of our city hospitals, which we laid the foundation for in Kayseri. What do we want to do in these city hospitals? Here, we want to highlight more quality rooms where people can live like human beings. For these, we aim to build hospitals with at least 30 square metres of company seats, comfortable beds, bathrooms, toilets, and other services. You're now seeing the advance projects of the 1,584-bed Kayseri Hospital here. So you see projects like this. We've been talking about the ward system before, but today, we're leaving this ward system now, and we're talking about a place where there's more quality, more meaningful, and with more people's comfort, there's sick beds. Dear friends, in the previous period, we know that the ambulance system had no gas, no diesel, no gas to get patients, but what did they do? I'd like to remind you that for today we are serving free of charge to three aircraft ambulances, 17 helicopter ambulances, four marine ambulances, and the patients we now carry here. Again, I'll tell you about a hospital we built in Kayseri. I'll tell you about the emergency. We're here to present a view of the emergency area that we've built in a closed space of 6,000 square meters. So here's a modern hospital, where we can serve human beings like human beings, where we can do ambulances and ICUs in front of them, and we can do them with burn units, and we're talking about hospitals where the air ambulance comes down on them, again. No matter how much you deny it, no matter how much, if you don't see it, the public has assessed it, the rate of patient satisfaction, 39.1%, is up to 75 percent today. It's going on the same way. We're talking about a hospital where we can serve people like human beings and treat our patients in better quality environments. Years ago, the SEC hospital was next to the public hospital at Kayseri. There were five feet of walls in between, and six feet of fences on top of it. What were we protecting then? Here, thank God, it's been given to us to tear down those Berlin Walls during my time as Chief of Medicine. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I've also been blessed as Chief Medical Officer. In all these thoughts, I wish you all the blessings of 2014, in order to bring good services to our people on all four corners of the country, that I may be able to express, however briefly, in order to bring health care to our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0109par0474	Thank you. Thirteenth and final speaker...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0110par0476	Congressman, didn't you used to be Chief of Medicine? Then why didn't you?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0109par0477	Please don't interrupt me, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0111par0478	Yeah. I was the chief of staff in 2003, and I wasn't there before him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0110par0479	It was a little disrespectful to the chief of staff before that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0111par0480	There's no such thing. That's the system. And I don't disrespect anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0110par0481	It's a shame about your colleagues. You've complained.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0112par0482	Did you also build the Great Wall of China, the Great Wall of China?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0113par0483	Congressmans, please don't interrupt me. The thirteenth and final speaker is Salih Firat, Adıyaman MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0114par0487	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a commitment to discuss the budget for the Turkish Ministry of Health, the Turkish Public Health Agency, 2014, and I salute the grand delegation. The Turkish Public Health Agency was established on 19 March 2012 to protect public health, improve public health, fight health risks with 90000 employees following the Law decree on the Offices of the Ministry of Health and Associations No. 663. With this arrangement, the first step and protective health services were single-handedly assembled, and the country's organization was formed for the effective presentation of this service. This structure provides a more effective presentation of protective and preventive services with faster and more end-oriented interventions. The Public Health Institution conducts first-level health care through the practice of family medicine. At the 6,750 service point, 21,200 family physicians and citizens are served in every corner of the home at the nearest location. Family physicians are organized to protect the health of our citizens of every age, especially in the health of mothers and children, to diagnose their diseases early, and to conduct effective treatments and follow through with constant diseases, and they meet our citizens 240 million times a year. With periodic examinations in 2014, the activities of family physicians will increase and their role in the health system in the future will be even more important. The 967 community health centre, which operates beyond individual health care, preventative mouth and dental care, medical medicine, school health, public living areas, and environmental health care, performs an important function that complements primary health care. Starting in 2014, the first step will be to support and improve the quality of services and services with health care providers, psychologists, social workers, child development workers. We know that our Ministry of Health has given a special importance to protective health during the time of our governments, and as a result, there are significant improvements in foster health care that are reflected in health indicators. First of all, our life expectancy at birth has increased. During the last ten years, our citizens' average lives have lasted five years. Development in the decline in mother and baby deaths has been cited in international reports as examples for other countries. Similar to the most advanced countries in the world, dramatic achievements have been achieved in combating infectious diseases with the contribution of 13 different antigens and high levels of immune activity. We expect the Turkish Public Health Agency, a more effective and modern model of construction, to further further further the success in these areas. The successes of dealing with mother and baby deaths and infectious diseases have led our health problems to a different area. As in the whole world, we see non-communicable diseases in our country. To control these diseases, you have to fight four risk factors: tobacco use, unhealthy diets, motionless lifestyles, and alcohol. We need to show the world the success of our model tobacco campaign in the fight for obesity. With the right diet and an active lifestyle, I believe we can achieve that with success. The activities of the Turkish Public Health Institution do not end with these. Acredity, which serves the entire country at the institution center, is strengthened by reference labs, as well as public health labs in our provinces, and lab infrastructures in the region. These labs have successfully maintained control of infectious diseases, especially consumer protection, and control of drinking and using water and other environmental health services. The Turkish Public Health Agency, which is working for our citizens to have a long and healthy life, wishes the 2014 budget to be a blessing, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit02spe0115par0499	Thank you. Congressmans, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the talks are also over. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0115par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place, the government is in place. Now, let's move on to the part of the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0116par0006	Mr. President, referring to the speech I gave earlier in the session by Halide Ma'am...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0115par0007	What sentence?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0116par0008	We'll get the records, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0115par0009	Here. What sentence?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0116par0010	Now, she's saying three things, Mrs. Halide. First, parliamentary ethics, manners. Two, the Minister's propaganda for the mayor's office. And the third, rather than thanking you, I read it exactly: instead of saying thank you, instead of thanking you, I read the population in the village, instead of seeing the decline in the population, the growth of technology and industrialization in agriculture, as well as the increase in modernisation, they expressed that our speech does not conform to the moral and moral of the MP. So, I'd like to make a promise of that because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0117par0011	Mr. President, if you promise my friend, I will, too.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0115par0012	Mr. Honey, if you'll excuse me, I have a statement to make. Actually, I was supposed to make a promise at the same hearing, but since I'm taking time to review the transcripts, I promise you I'll review the transcripts. Here you go, two minutes, no hard feelings.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0118par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, Halide Ma'am, in the first session, said some things about lawmakers' manners, ethics, while speaking on the basis of the budget. After that, Mr. Minister, the mayor of Gaziantep, expressed that we should give him congratulations, appreciation, and thanks in order to promote the election. Instead of doing this, in my speech earlier, I mentioned that villages have been emptied because of the constant price of diesel, the price of medicine, the increase in the price of fertilizer, or because of a low increase in prices in products produced by the farmer. Instead of answering this properly, he made an attempt to taunt me by connecting my testimony with moral values. I'm saying it's inappropriate. No one needs to teach anyone a moral lesson, especially me, and I don't need a governess. So, I'm a literary, ethical MP. I'll thank Halide Ma'am very much if she can answer my speech in the framework of political courtesy.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0119par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0120par0020	Congressman, may I have the transcripts?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0119par0021	What do you want to do, Halide Incekara?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0120par0022	I'd like to respond, our congressman asked me to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0119par0023	We'll go ahead, you go over the paperwork. If there's bullying, we'll make an assessment. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 Now, we've moved on to the speech section on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker elects Vahab, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Chosen, your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0121par0059	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing the 2014 budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. It's a really important ministry, I say that all the time. Turkey's economy, Turkey's socioeconomic structure, the employment share of workers in the agricultural sector, the livelihoods, indirect, etcetera, etcetera. He's been trying to manage a difficult ministry, Mr. Eker, and he's been running the ministry since 2005.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0122par0062	Is it a difficult ministry or a difficult ministry?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0121par0063	The reason I said this in the beginning is because Mr. Secretary of State, who led the longest Department of Agriculture in the AKP administration process, is directly responsible for the outcome today. My dear friends, well, the sector is this important; Turkey's share in the illegal national product is 8 per cent of the employment share of 27 per cent. Can we do enough modern farming? Of course there's trouble in that sense. How do we make this happen? Of course, in this area, we're going to be raising students in our universities, in our agricultural schools, in our food engineering schools, in our water products faculty, and we're going to be running them in the Ministry. Those complaints were expressed by previous speakers. We've got engineering friends waiting for the appointment, colleagues, Mr. Secretary's colleagues. In 2013, 12,000 people have been taken as members of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, 110,000 police officers have taken over the last ten years, but the Ministry of Agriculture has included 17607 engineers and veterinarians in the last ten years. Agriculture is this important, it's social, it's economic; 17607 of our friends are taking office at the Ministry. So, who's responsible for this? Mr. Secretary, I'm not responsible for this, the Minister of Finance says. You ask the Minister of Finance, and he says: "Yes, there is such a demand, but in the State Chief of Staff, I expect their opinion." But this engineer is waiting for you to appoint our children. I'd like to announce this to you from the council bench. My dear friends, one of the most important issues of the last days is the power outage due to weather conditions. Well, Mr. Secretary says there's no crisis. Mr. Secretary, in what kind of environment will he name this as a crisis? So, today, there are significant problems with the power lines, three hours, five hours, ten hours of power outages a day; citizens are cold, production has stopped. It's also a reflection of agricultural production. They're having major difficulties with their wing production due to power cuts. Especially in the Mediterranean region, they can't run the propellers, they can't run the irrigation systems, as a way to protect the citrus's production facilities from frosting. Here, because of the disaster in Anamur, there was significant damage caused by the frost. The manufacturers can't heat their greenhouses, but according to the Minister of Energy, these power cuts are not a crisis. My dear friends, speaking of citrus, when Mr. Minister comes to the stand, will talk about the fact that there are no problems in the agricultural sector in Turkey, talk about the growth of the farmer's income, talk about that we are growing as agriculture economies in Europe, but, I want to address a current problem here today. The citrus is still harvested, and especially in my region, in the Mediterranean region, the narcissist manufacturers cannot sell their narcissists; they are priced for 30 cents, 35 cents, 40 cents. And why is that? Of course, there's not enough exports. Our production is more than our consumption, so we have to export, and in order to export, the exporter needs the government's support, the government can't do that. I'd like to address my citizens from here. Please, you citizens do what the government can't do, take 1 kilogram of oranges on your way home in the evening, take 1 kilogram of tangerine, and on winter day it's a cure for the cold, it's a cure for everything.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0123par0069	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0121par0070	Also, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary on behalf of the narcissist manufacturers: Mr. Secretary, you know, you've performed a School Milk Project. Why not the school citrus project? I think about my health, I'm wasting it on a citrus, and the slogan's ready. As Department of Agriculture, you can very well implement such a project. Dear friends, entry prices come at the top of the most important problems in Turkey that make agricultural production impossible. See, 11 years of AKP governments -- at the end of 2002, today we finish 2013 -- we're looking at entry prices: Mazot prices came from $1.25 to 4.5 euros; fertilizer prices -- to change according to their population -- reached 300 per cent to prices, 350 per cent to the 350 per cent; agriculture electricity prices also cost 200 per cent, 300 per cent. Now, we're looking at product prices. Did they grow at the same rate? On the one hand, 200 per cent, 300 per cent, 400 per cent input costs increase, but we can't get the same rates in agricultural products -- when you compare 2002 to 2013. You're looking at the price of wheat, at the end of 2002, the price of wheat at the end of 30 cents has reached 60 to 70 cents today. Egypt was on the level of 25 cents, and it cost 50 cents. Here, orange, on the tangerine branch, it doesn't sell. Grapes, it's been a bad season again this year. The manufacturer searched for prices ten years ago. Wherever you go in the world, in any country, if agricultural production isn't worth the state's touch, if agricultural production isn't supported by the state's ability, you don't have a chance to produce, everybody knows that, Mr. Secretary knows that. See, there was a law in 2006: the Law of Agriculture. Here, we've passed this into the law in the form of 1%, the ratio from the central budget to agricultural support. We've all done this together. Is it true? Right. So how much agricultural support is expected to take place in 2013? $9 billion. What was predicted in 2014? $9,670 billion. So, what's Turkey's GDP today? Around $800 billion, which is $1.6-1.7 trillion. What's 1 percent of this? 16 or 17 billion dollars, but look, today, 6 or 7 billion, the amount of support we've given the farmer is behind us. The Agricultural Law came out in 2006; between 2007 and 2013, we paid the farmer about $40 billion short. Sir, we give the farmer the necessary support, but in return, we get tax from the farmer. Look, 3.5 million tons is about the amount of diesel the farmer consumes in a year. The amount of VAT he paid is equal to the amount of support paid from the central budget to the farmer. On the other hand, the farmer pays VAT, VAT, all kinds of inputs, fertilizers, medicines, water, air, everything. Hale takes the product, pays the blockage, pays the dues, but on the other hand, we give the farmer $9 billion, $10 billion; Turkey's budget is over $400 billion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Really, it's being presented to the public like huge numbers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0124par0081	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0121par0082	My dear friends, of course there are many words for agriculture. After all, I wish you well, knowing that the 2014 budget can't cure the farmer's problems.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0124par0085	Thank you. Second speaker, Ramadan Kerim Özkan, Burdur MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0125par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your high council, but since our House is empty, I will call upon my producer brothers, producer brothers, producers, producers waiting to be appointed, food engineers, water products engineers, engineers and technicians, veterinary physicians and technicians, and I will also give warnings to the Ministry. My fellow citizens, how are you? Are you all right? I know you're not well. Winter has come, troubles have increased. Trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble. Selling apples, citrus, tomatoes, peppers, milk, selling meat. Producing is another problem. Because you were buying fertilizer for $8, the same fertilizer is 80 lira today, but the prices of the products you produce continue to count. It's all pretty, but that's not the case. Burdur, or "Cici Pappam" is glowing, and my hungry stomach is rumbling. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I see the authorities think milk, meat, wheat, barley, beans, cucumbers, tomatoes, apples, pears are spontaneous. My fellow citizens, respected lawmakers, they produce land, water, energy, tractor, diesel, fertilizer, medicine, sweat. Is that enough? He's got an agricultural engineer, food engineers, water products engineers, vets, technicians. I'm asking the Ministry: what happened to the 6,557 people who were to be cast at the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism? Mr. Secretary says we asked the Finance Ministry for this position? The Ministry of Finance did not give us the staff we wanted. • Aren't you members of the same Cabinet? Don't you agree with the Minister of Finance? Why are you playing with the feelings of tens of thousands of families? Solve this problem as soon as possible. The citizen expects a solution from you. My fellow citizens, look, right now, the straw is 40 cents, the eraser is 20 cents. No straw, no fillings, no food value. Silage, protein source, necessary food. We didn't even teach it to the manufacturers. Why? For education, for control, for production, for protection. The Ministry of Finance has to take care of this staff business as soon as possible. These are the ingredients that these farmers should be taught. What's eraser, what's dandruff, what's bait? One day, a politician goes to a village, the villagers are worried. They say, "Sir, 100 cents a dandruff, barley 60 cents a pound." They say, "E, brother, then plant barley instead of dandruff." Because that politician doesn't know dandruff, he doesn't know the dog, we've come across these. We need to teach these people what dandruff is, what a dog is, what a shutter is, my dear friends. Now, we find it appropriate to establish the Meat Council and Milk Council. However, we would like the Meat Council and the Milk Council, the Agriculture Loan Co-operatives, the Office of Earth Products to be autonomous. However, we see that there's politicalism here, and we're sad. These institutions are the farmer's friend on a black day, but the fact that their profits are in high numbers upsets the villagers. Agricultural Credit Co-operatives boast that I've made 165 million profits, who did you profit from, brother? From the peasant, the farmer. You're not going to make that profit, you're a black-day friend, you're going to support him, you're not going to be part of that peasant's profits. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As a government, you must maintain the balance of supply and demand. In recent years, you've done an app called zero interest rate, bankrupting thousands of manufacturers. Zero interest, 100 percent interest. The citizen was devastated, and you sent him to the mill to grind flour without wheat. My fellow citizens, there is no good news from this budget again. The lover who doesn't know how to hold the vineyard doesn't appreciate the grapes. It's not worth wheat, it's not worth apples, it's not worth milk, it's not worth a citrus. Right now, in the greenhouses, citizens start burning wood at 5:00 p.m., burning wood, heating greenhouses until seven o'clock in the morning. At the greenhouses right now, the wood's supply is 60 liras in public, 150 lira in the free market. The citizen is trying to figure out how to get wood for the greenhouses. We need to figure this out. The product is cheap, expensive in the market. The apple is now -- I was at the mill, I was at the bender last week -- 10 cents, my dear friends, but 2 liras in Ankara. Isn't that a shame? Why didn't you manage to meet this manufacturer-gatherer? You say ten years of power, a successful power, why didn't you succeed? Why didn't you have the manufacturer-commerce meeting? You still can't.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0126par0101	They're after other meetings.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0127par0102	They meet in Oslo.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0125par0103	Now, my dear friends, what we want: Look, we're going to give you green diesel or cheap diesel. You said, in ten years, you couldn't give it to me, so quickly give me green diesel. In milk, we will draw the meat from 8 to 1. You said, you didn't; pull it to 1. You said, you didn't, and you're still 18 percent. Are the supports enough? No. You said, you still haven't caught that rate. Special consumption tax from the diesel and VAT over 10 billion, 10 billion. Your agricultural support for the citizen is 9 billion. So, what you give from his right pocket, you take from his left pocket. I don't include what was taken from the drug, what was taken from the fertilizer, what was taken from the bait, what was taken from the wine. Look, there are wine producers in Çil district. We get paid for the money they make, you get paid, the imam gets paid, the mufti gets paid. You charge them five liras a gallon, and you get it before it's offered for consumption. This money is a sin, a sin, a sin. You're definitely gonna have to put that away. I said you put it in one pocket and you take it out the other. Meanwhile, while waiting for a VAT discount, the other day, you raised one percent of VAT to 8 percent of its winged meat. What a diet of sauerkraut! Let the Minister tell you his truth. That's protecting the manufacturer, the consumer? Mr. Secretary, the food supply is running out, the village is running low every day. Recently in Afyon, people with 50-60 buckles in Burdur are unable to look at 5-6 animals at the moment because of their cost. In order to do that, you need to put an end to this as soon as possible. As a minister, we exported a veil. You brag about it. We exported 250 heifers, got 174.501 heifers in the last four years. Look what's bought, look what's sold. This shouldn't be a matter of pride. Our warnings: support the rehabilitation co-ops. Keep an eye on domestic production. Give him some cheap green diesel. Proliferate racial rehabilitation. Stop importing. Make peace with the Middle East countries. Look for an answer to their food needs. Increase production support. Remember, $3 billion in hay in three years this government has paid $3 billion; it's a shame, it's a sin. Look, because of the protective struggle and lack of caution, there's alum, flowers, brusella, tuberculosis, Crimean Congo bleeding fever, rabies going on. Animal markets are closed. The citizen turned into a fish out of water. Complete the lack of staff, end these diseases. No more import milk dust, butter or milk. There's a disturbance in the co-ops in the field. Protect the cooperatives established by Law 1163. Finally, promise me that support for 200 kilograms above the calf, which continues until 31/12/2013, will continue here for 2014. Remember, this practice prevents female cuts at all costs. Without Ana, there is no calf. I would like to remind you of the expression. I wish the budget to be good luck and good luck to our country. That's all I've come to understand in a short time, my citizens. We're going to share some very big problems with you guys later. The solution is the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0128par0114	Thank you. The third speaker is Ilhan Demiröz, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Irony. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0129par0119	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, which has not submitted any of the books, paintings and documents that should have been submitted to the Court under the decree of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute all our citizens and you with love and respect, especially our precious farmers, who produce in the most difficult conditions in the land and all over the country, who are stubborn, who stand firm. Dear lawmakers, there are no workers in the 2014 budget, no pensioners, no widows, no orphans, no officers, no farmers and peasants; there is no share, no pen, no money to cover the problems and problems that you farmers are in. Mr. Secretary is about to appear on this bench, and he's going to tell you about the numbers he likes to flip, and he's going to draw pink paintings. My fellow farmers, please compare what the minister tells you with what's in your pocket, compare it to the yellow taxis that come to the villages, compare the number of black purses in the village coffee, compare it to the rapidly growing executive agencies in your district, the crops you sow and the crops you buy, compare the number of animals you sell, compare the number of animals on the roof, and take your mother's mother to the victim. Valuable lawmakers, there are no countries in the world where agriculture is not supported, but in our country it's done as if agriculture is being supported, and the budgetary grants -- as our friends are saying -- are being rescinded over that year -- are being repossessed in terms of UV and VAT. In the presence of my brothers and sisters, the farmers watching us on their screens, I would like to express to the Minister that he does not support our farmers, that agriculture has been destroyed by the government. In our country, farmers and peasants have been dismissed, and work is being done on the policy of not supporting the farmer at every turn. The testimony of the representatives of the organization, who have voiced these works with the press, is very important to us. Even a conglomerate that lasts 12 years for the world's highest input prices and the lowest product price is closing the agricultural production center, and we're trying to figure out how the farmer should survive. Representatives of the room, who have expressed the need to get everyone's minds straight, say: "This can't go on like this, it's not like the people who work in this industry to leave the profession, not like a holding company. Farmers are the cement of this country, patriotic, selfless, hardworking people. Such a situation creates a huge social turmoil in the country that no expansion, hair, can solve this social chaos. As representatives of the agricultural kitchen cried out in such a way, our farmers do not forget the knighthood of Mr. Mehdi Eker, who will be known as the Minister who imports faith in history. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's not always see the TOKI ads in the press, there are now farmers from the owner for sale. Here, look...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0130par0130	Show me this way.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0129par0131	Here you go. One of the investors who used loans and came to the brink of bankruptcy says that he started a farm in late 2010, but the government did not pay for loans, that he lost all the assets he had saved in 30 years from his grandfather, his father, and that I now had 150. With my loan, I could buy 40 animals, and now, even if I sold 100 animals, I can't pay them back. In a speech at an awards ceremony, the Minister stated that he had applied for the Guinness Book of Records with two projects. We appreciate these attempts at the world. And when the Guinness authorities come to our country, they'll see how late they are, and all of the Minister's work for our country's agriculture actually deserves to be on the front page of the book. Once again, I say to you from this platform that, under the rule of the Agricultural Law, which was issued in 2006, you owe our farmers $40 billion. We know they haven't paid that debt, but I'd like to say that I've offered you two separate laws to pay off what our farmers are owed, and that you're in the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, we see the Minister at various meetings. Most of these meetings are held in hotel halls. I wonder how many times you've had meetings with farmers during your Ministry. Is your shoe worth the clay, heavy body, tinkling land? Have you heard one-on-one from the farmers? If you're there, if you're sitting in the ministry seat, it's because of our farm brothers, you have no right to ignore them, to pass them on. Finally, we have collected about 12,000 signatures from the districts of Bursa Gemlik, Iznik, Mudanya and Orhangazi, demanding a premium of 50 cents on the table of olives. Even though I'm a member of the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, when we asked Mr. Secretary for an appointment to deliver the file with four borough heads, agricultural chamber heads and producer representatives, I'm afraid he didn't give us an appointment. Dear lawmakers, I want our precious farmers, who sweat from east to west, south to north, and feed us, despite all else, to be hopeful, because as the Republican People's Party, we will plan a new agricultural order, which includes production and wealth for all, in our power, the support of the state, the blessing of the land will be our farmers, and I salute all of you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0131par0139	Thank you, Mr. Irony. The fourth speaker is Ayşe Nedret Akova, Balıkesir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0132par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. In 2012, I was unable to oversee the expenses and procedures of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy as necessary, because under the direction of political power, the Supreme Administration of the Court, the reports it sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as you all know, have been well informed. Using my nation's budget rights, I was prevented by the government and the Court's higher administration to determine whether the taxes paid by our citizens were being spent in accordance with the way they were paid. I start by protesting this situation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are 3.9 per cent of the family and social policy ministry's budget for 2014. How to serve the most needy part of our country with such a low budget share is impossible to understand. While the ministry budget is being earmarked, the largest share is earmarked for distribution of coal, supplies and supplies. The Ministry's share in the Ministry's budget is 62%. The budget for the Ministry of Press and Public Relations is 0.6%. The share of the woman's status is 0.6%. Honourable lawmakers, according to the report of the Anadolu Agency, dated October 14, 2013, that a commission would be closed and replaced with a commission that would not be named after the woman's name, which would be removed from the Women's Opportunity Equivalence Commission, which I'm in charge of, and another commission would be set up under another name, but it has not been denied by the Ministry. Our Minister is at peace, and this is a matter of public interest because it's going backwards in the struggle for women's rights that has been going on for centuries. Therefore, I would like to ask that the Minister tell you that the name of this commission will not be changed, that the woman's name will not be removed, sir. In addition, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr. Minister, in the budget presentation speech, only mentioned the woman in two places: the low rate of her participation in the labor force, the share of women's guesthouses... He also mentioned the low share of female guesthouses. Thus, in our country, the woman's weakness has been announced by the Minister in her budget presentation speech. The woman trapped inside the concept of family is unemployed, suffering from violence. The state is incapable of protecting her and strengthening her financially and politically. The woman's name is wanted to be wiped out everywhere, laws are issued to limit her rights to her body. With the pressure of how many children she's going to have, she's already determined how she's going to deliver. At the same time, when women were asked to be strengthened politically and to be more involved in decision-making mechanisms, each candidate was announced in the announcement of every mayoral candidate -- we also watched on television! What is it, not spiritual violence against women, when it is called 3! According to the World Economic Forum's 2013 Global Gender Cliff Report, Turkey is ranked 120 (136) among the 136 countries; we are 103, we are in political turnout, we are in the pay equivalent of 79. Honourable lawmakers, women join the labour force at 30 per cent and men at 76 per cent; unemployment among women at 11 per cent and men at 9 per cent; half-day work rate at 24 per cent among men; women in non-agricultural employment rate at 23 per cent; women with bank accounts at 33 per cent, respected lawmakers at 82 per cent, I point out. The female rate of leadership in businesses is 4%. According to Turkey's Family Violence Research Report on Women in 2008, 41.9 per cent of women in our country are subjected to violence by their spouse, or their father, girlfriend, friend, brother, friend. After 2008, there is no official number, no official data. Therefore, it is really the issue of children's brides, one of our country's most important problems. In Turkey, one of the four marriages in our country are children's daughters-in-laws, and one of the three are children's daughters-in-laws in some areas, in the newspapers, in the media, and in some statistics. Besides, as we see in the newspapers every day, violence against women, murders against women are increasing day by day. Therefore, it is imperative that the investigation of their economic dimensions, sociological dimensions, psychological dimensions, must be investigated and investigated by a commission, and how to resolve these solutions, and how to prevent them. This is increasing day by day. Among the most important problems in our country, in addition to unemployment, this is a very important problem, and I want to draw your attention to that. While this is the case of the woman in our country, we also believe that the budget of the ministry budget of a thousand to six percent of these women is not enough to resolve these problems, as a result of the prevention of discrimination against women in all areas of social life, in order to strengthen the position of women in all areas. The budget share of a thousand is very low, at the same rate as the share of advertising. Therefore, Mr. Secretary, it is my belief that a portion of the ads are to be divided into the Women's Status General Directorate, and that this share should be increased in order to address the problems that women are experiencing in our country and the problems that are in the area of responsibility of the Women's Status General Directorate. The number of women who can work in our country has been identified as 27 million,73,000, while only 8 million 192,000 women have been represented as labor. Studies among countries have found a positive and strong relationship between long-term potential growth and women's employment turnout. Therefore, we need to use the resources available to increase the woman's participation in the labour force. In addition, there are 12.29 per cent of the total population in our country, some 9 million of our citizens, who are disabled. The share for the disabled has been assessed with the elderly in the ministry budget, which is 0.15 per cent, and the share in the total budget is 0.6 per thousand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] While most of our population is disabled and old, I draw your attention to the fact that this share is very small. Despite everything, I wish our country well, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0133par0162	Thank you. The fifth speaker is Candan Aseker, Tekirdağ MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0166	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are bringing the new budget to Parliament without the government bringing the Court's reports that oversee last year's expenditures to Parliament. With what face? Shouldn't you answer for last year first? Court reports for 2012 were not brought to parliament. The Court's view of control is not available to us, so we can't give an opinion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0135par0167	Brought in, brought in, didn't stop by your room, did you?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0168	The 2014 budget came to the General Assembly on December 10th. After nearly 11 days of discussion, the ruling party will be accepted with a sufficient majority of fingers and then approved by the President and then put into effect. Well, does that justify the budget? You can't clear that budget with a majority of fingers, just as it's not justified by saying "Aq." Before the Court reports arrive, this budget is an illegitimate budget, not a legal budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0136par0171	Court reports came in, they came in, the Court reports are here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0137par0172	It's in your room, it's in your room, it's in your room, it's all in your room.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0173	A budget that doesn't answer, that can't be audited, can't be legitimate.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0137par0174	Not for you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0175	Transparency is a budget that can account for every penny, aim to increase people's peace and prosperity, ensures justice in taxes, removes the inequality in the income distribution, eliminates, protects the rights of others, protects the rights of everyone, the budget of the people, and is lawful.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0137par0176	If you'd read the budget, you'd have seen it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0177	Before the budget, I'd like to say a few words to Mr. Fatma Şahin. Although the 26-member cabinet was lost as a single woman, all lawmakers who believed in the equality of women and women from the Ministry's name, sincerely believed that the Minister wanted to contribute to the solution of women's problems, put her in a separate position within this male ruling cabinet. As a woman in the national struggle said, a woman is a small thing, perhaps a woman is the greatest thing. I hoped that, as promised, 24 male ministers, the Prime Minister, and the male dominant mentality in the party and society, that women without voice in the fight for equality and freedom, the voice of women without voice, the power of women without power, could embrace all women who had no voice. Unfortunately, we found that instead of believing in equality, we found that he was the spokesman for a mindset that was uncomfortable with women having children sitting next to him at the same time, with women having children having children having children having children having children having children having children having abortions, having babies, having women having babies, having women having abortions, having women having babies, enduring women getting off the boat of Kadıköy, studying at the same school, sitting next to each other at the same time. (HPP claps) Unfortunately, he even distinguishes the victim women from me, from you. You have sacrificed women to politics and the male dominant mind within the party. So, the approach of this mindset and its secret agenda are sometimes expressed as a confession by power and its spokesman, and unfortunately, you're trying to explain them. What is it, sir? It wasn't meant to be, it was meant to be. In fact, we know what it's called, we know what it's called, and you know it. Mr. Secretary states that we have passed one of the world's most powerful laws in fighting violence and that we are one of the first countries to sign the Istanbul Convention without hesitation. Under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is true that you signed under regulations for women, but the real fact is that this mentality, which does not believe in equality between men and women, is power, and that women are ignored as individuals. The woman's name, let alone hers, is being wiped from all sides. Not as an equal member of the community, but as part of the family, the AKP government has tried to clear the existing mechanisms within the state, not to strengthen the existing mechanisms. Here, the Department of Social Construction and Women's Statistics was shut down during the AKP ruling period. In rural development, the women's office is in position. In 2011, the Ministry of Women and Family was shut down and converted into the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. In 2009, the Women's Equality Commission, created by the joint agreement of all parties, came with the word "equality of opportunity" in the prime minister's office, and today it is sought to be transformed into a family and social policy commission. As you can see, the law is not enough to solve problems with women, it has to be implemented. So, as long as we don't place the woman's identity, equality in this community's consciousness, we can make all the laws we want, take all the precautions we want, we can't move forward on this -- statistics, numbers, I put aside -- we see ourselves living in peace. The main reason the work is incomplete in women's matters is because if we really want to ensure the insincerity of politics and equality of men and women, we need a strong political will in this matter, but unfortunately, this will does not exist in the AKP government. Dear lawmakers, the aim of a democratic, social state is to ensure that individuals are as political, social, economically equal and free as they are in the eyes of the law. So budgets aren't just numbers, they're actually economic, political and governance documents, each pen is a political document that shows the political goals of power. Therefore, we need to consider budgets in terms of economic and policy. We can't evaluate the budget of the 2014 Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we're just reading about the 17 billion-dollar budget, and we're trying to evaluate it because there are four lines in the Court report. On all four lines, it says: "I can't give an opinion on financial reports and paintings from 2012 because there is no picture, no document, no report. So, we're reading intent today, actually, here. That's what this four-line inspection says.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0138par0181	Do you have a balance sheet so far?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0182	In this budget, there is no attempt to increase women's employment, to compensate for male-female inequality. I don't have a name for her social and economic empowerment. Women's Status General Directorate, the only unit in which there is a woman in the state, with the word "woman" in it, has also been disabled. Look, the pencil that was earmarked to the Women's Status General Directorate is $9 million, the women's guest houses, the first admission agencies, and the money that's already been earmarked for 123 million pounds. You know what that means? It means that we'd rather open a car repair shop than fix roads on a road that's a lot of car accidents.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0138par0183	The ministry balance balance has increased by 15 per cent.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0184	Because we don't want to fix the roads, because we don't want to make equality between men and women. Look, I mean, it didn't, but I'd like to say here, Mr. Ismail Korkmaz had a message from his mother, God rest his soul, saying: "Everyone watched how my baby was brutally beaten to death, how he was slaughtered. When Mr. Fatma Hawk watched, didn't he feel any pain or emotion at all? For once we didn't want it to be like this. He didn't say, he didn't say, he didn't offer his condolences. But my child has been read mercy from all over the world. I don't give my rights to Mr. Fatma Şahine, Mr. Minister Fatma Şahine. Yes, we and I, as women minister, do not give my blessing to Fatma Şahin. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0139par0188	If you're right, don't!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0134par0189	Everyone has a right, everyone has a right, you don't get to decide!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0140par0190	Thank you. The sixth speaker is Aytuğ Horseman, Mersin MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0141par0195	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the budget budget bill of the 2014 Central Management Budget Act and the Health Ministry budget in the Plan and Budget Commission Report. I salute the MPs and everyone who answer for every penny collected from the sweat of the citizen and don't covet those coins. Dear friends, our citizens' health rights have been secured by our Constitution, and I've said it many times from here. It is a constitutional duty to protect the health of our citizens and to treat them if they cannot. Whose duty is it? It's the government's job. On behalf of the state, Mr. Health Minister does this with the Ministry of Health; it was given to him by the Constitution. But the Constitution, Mr. Secretary, will not or will not tell you to take a contribution from the citizen. When we look at your budget numbers, I see that you're not doing anything to protect our health with the budget you're making. Look, the Ministry of Health's 2014 budget is around 18 billion, 18 billion, 647 million, 271,000 liras. So, what does the Prime Minister say? Sir, we've saved about 76 billion dollars for health. Where did 76 billion come from? I thought your health department budget was 18 billion. Where's 18 billion, 76 billion? Again, the AKP deliberately misleads the public by using false and exaggerated figures. Where did 76 billion come from? Sir, whose money did we put in the health budget that the SGK is going to spend? From the taxes everyone pays, you budget national education, national defense, health. Besides, we, as citizens, pay you health benefits. You're saving those bonuses, you're trying to sell us 76 billion dollars to pay back the SGK. It's a real shame, and it's not acceptable in any way. Okay, let's go over 18 billion. How did you split the $18 billion, Mr. Secretary? You know, when you were going to protect our health, you were going to try to keep our citizens from getting sick, see how you spent 60.5 percent of it on staff expenses, 30 percent on goods and services costs, only 9 percent on investments. So you've handed over to the SGK the same task our Constitution has given you to protect health. So, the SGK says: I decide who will be treated, who will be treated in what way and who will not be treated and who will not be treated, and you will only follow me. This really embarrasses me as a physician. The SGK says: I don't pay for closed surgeries, brother, I don't pay for painless birth, I don't pay for some quality materials, I don't pay for some medicine. What's a citizen going to do? He'll pay from his cell. I'm about to tell you in numbers how much money comes out of a citizen's pocket. Most important of all, the SGK says that if you don't pay the difference and the contribution, I won't give health care to anyone. Let's see if you can get it delivered as Minister of Health. When you come to power, everyone will receive health care with a population wallet. When you say "If you don't have a wallet, you can't get health care. You've brought our health to a point. (CHP) Unfortunately, the public understood that a little late, but they're going to be paying for it very soon. My dear friends, look, I'm not going to produce numbers, I'm going to say some things based on the figures the Minister of Health has produced himself. The Minister of Health says in his own budget presentation: "The rate of total health premiums is 85 percent, so what does that mean? With the money you collect from the citizen, you provide health care, and 85% of your services are already paid as a citizen's bonus. E, you're getting a cut on this, you're getting a cut, so you're making a profit, and without shame... in this country, the dollar billionaire, the minimum wage, the unemployed, everyone, everyone, everyone, has to pay the difference fee. That's why this budget isn't fair, my dear friends, which is why this budget is not a moral budget, which is why this budget has been a budget that has laid the groundwork for dissolutions, bringing order for robbery. Look, I'm going to keep the numbers, and I don't know how embarrassed you'll be, but the numbers are very clear, and it says: "The GDP is 5.2 percent in 2001; 5,4 in 2002; 5.4 in 2012, when health costs increased?" It may have increased in numbers, but it's the same percentage of the gross gross, which is the same as all of us with the sweat of our foreheads. You're misleading the people. In 2001, 5,2 is now 5.4. I thought you said there was an increase. There is no increase in any way. For those of you who are curious, the OECD average is 9.2, which is almost twice your budget. Now, I'm going to say another important number -- again, I got it from the Health Minister's own pocket book -- and I'd like to ask our citizens to listen very carefully. The cost of pocketing per person -- how much money do we spend on health care -- is 56 lira in 2002, 157 lira in 2012, and three times as high. The Minister of Health himself publishes this. And do you know how much this 176 is worth when you multiply it by 76 million, my friends? It's worth 12 quadrillion liras. So you take 12 quadrillion liras out of your citizens' pockets every year. Oh, you could say: there was inflation, there was this, there was this. So let's do the dollar bill. In 2002, you raised $37 in pocket spending, $87 in 2012, 2.3 in dollars, and in dollars, you increased the money spent on your own health. So, you blow money out of a citizen's pocket, you give it back as health care, and then you say, "My friend, clap for me, I've given you health care." There's no such thing, Mr. Secretary. You're doing this service with the money you took out of a citizen's pocket. (CHP clapping in rows) That's what the citizen has the right to know, and you have to come out here and tell me what you're doing with these 12 quadrillion liras. All I've told you so far is that it concerns the lucky ones, my dear friends, the ones with health insurance. What's worse than worse? I do. Here you go, people with no health insurance. Millions of people don't have health insurance. Why not? Either he failed the income test; your funny numbers, one-third of the minimum wage, he couldn't pass it, or he couldn't get an income test. That's why these people can't get health care. Now, you see, the elections are coming up, millions of people can't get health care. What did you do? You're making amends. Well, does it suit you, Mr. Secretary? I mean, all this time, people... I've shouted from here: they're dying. You don't believe it, now you believe it. But, when? You believed in election time. You're giving these people amnesty on the way to the election. How are the colleges doing? It's the college situation, so I can't talk about it anymore. I thought you were taking away the difference, Mr. Secretary. You were taking away the money for the knife. You're making a difference again with the new law you brought in. In the old days, good bad, dude, with the sergeant relationship, social justice, whatever it was -- my fellow physicians understood me very well -- people could get to the teachers. Now, thanks to you, only those with money can get to teachers, or they can get to them at the hospital, or they can get to them in private hospitals. (CHP cheers) This is definitely something that our people will never, ever forgive. What happened on the full day, Mr. Secretary? Where's your full day? I thought you were gonna do it full-time. You've turned the whole day into a bust. What do you mean half the doctors can work out, half can't? And you tell the teachers, "Go work outside, bring me half of what you've earned, and then I'll deal with you." I don't know where to look. I can't pass without talking about subcontractors. In 2002, the subcontractors are around 10,000, around 150,000 in 2013, and these contractors are thankful for their blessings, thanks be to God, we find bread. But you're exploiting their labor, and they'll continue to attack you, Mr. Secretary. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0142par0209	Thank you. The seventh speaker is Free Special, Manisa MP. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0143par0212	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the Turkish Medicine and Medicine Agency on behalf of my group on the 2014 budget. I salute you all. Eleven years ago, the AKP came to fight poverty, corruption and bans, which was his own saying, and every 11 years he turned this beautiful country into a land of bans, flooded the country with poverty, its supporters with money, and went down the drain. That's not what we're saying, that's what the Court reports, the highest control body in the state, say. Court reports, like bricks, 400 pages, 700 pages. There are hundreds of corruption hidden from it in six or seven pages of summary. The Health Department budget is no less than that. I thought of the late Adile Nashid, and the town would go, "Give me half a pound of meat, my son. Let it be fat free." The ministers went to the court and told us to give us a seven-page report, where there was no corruption. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Minister, a country's health ministry and health ministry is expected to govern its health, but in Turkey, health management has changed hands, and the SGK is doing it. But it doesn't matter. You, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, each and every one of you, are a meta that has been removed from being an equal, non-discrimination and free right to every citizen's health, to be sold, the patients, the clients, the doctor, the dentist, the dentist, the nurse, the medical staff, are slaves, and this beautiful, holy service area is an industry. That's our basic problem. You're always comparing the last 11 years to the present. Come on, let's compare. In their sincerity in health policy, countries are questioned as to how many percentages of non-national revenue are divided. In 2002, the number was 5.4 percent, and the number you brought today was 5.4 percent. There's a significant difference between 2002 and today: 2002, we were the last two of the OECD countries, in front of Mexico, the last two. Today the painting has changed, Mr. Secretary, Mexico has passed us, and we are the last. Mexico is proud of the Minister of Health. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On December 17, 2011, when I first came to this bench, I said, in my first budget speech: in 2001, before you arrived, one kind of turnout was taken, and now it's up to seven. From then on, I counted one by one in every budget, up to eight, up to nine, up to ten. If there was time, I'd count them one by one again. Our dear citizens, aunts, uncles, they know what they're paying for themselves, but today you've invented the 11th. The Justice and Development Party is proud to present, and if you are determined to go to the hospital, you will first make an appointment by telephone; you will pick up the phone to make an appointment, and the 11th kind of money, 25 cents to $4.5 will pay for an appointment. The Justice and Development Party is proud to present! [[Applause from CHP rows]] See, all countries get their turnout. They receive one or two of these ten types of participation. Turkey is the only country where 10 of them are taken at once. Participation is not about contributing the patient to the cost, but participation means dip the needle in yourself, dip the sack in the government. But what you do, Mr. Secretary, is that it's a shame, a sin, a shame, a shame, to take part in the minimum wage of a factory with a factory worker. When you're short on health care, you do other jobs like you do with the patient. There are eight types of methods around the world to suppress drug prices; the reference starts from price to global budget, and I've counted it over and over again. You are the only country to apply eight of these methods. You've invented a 9th, the wolf, the mad Dumrul. When he imports the drug, when he imports the agent, you will pay the euro from the current currency of 2.80, and when you sell it to the government, you will pay $1.90. So, as a result of these policies, pharmaceutical industry, pharmacists and patients are in trouble. The important thing is, it's the patient's challenge. Her distress sometimes arises when a minister in Thrace put money in the pocket of a young woman with cancer, and sometimes when a grieving mother, your father, your son, is looking for a pharmacy, can't find a cure for cancer. 20 months ago, in March 2012, I made a motion to question all of this, and I said, "This cancer drug is produced here, with starch and salt in it, and the whole world and our patients are being poisoned." I got a funny answer. I got a funny answer. Because of the undiscovered cancer drugs, our citizens fell into the sea, hugged the snake. More than 70 people have been taken into custody in a recent operation. On the first day, 96 patients may have died because of this drug. I claim the real number is 5,000, and my claims will be proven today as they were two years ago, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0144par0225	They don't believe in the regent, they don't believe in the trustee, they believe in the nurse.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0143par0226	I told him about the health budget. If you put a low budget on health care, here's what we're talking about. Sometimes, from a newborn incubator, sometimes, to the relatives of a bedridden patient who's waiting to die, sometimes at the Farm Bank, to the cost of a 250 lira pension to a cut in medicine and hospital, sometimes to a new graduate doctor, to confront a patient of a new graduate pharmacist, instead of doing his job, to tell them about your policies, sometimes to the tensions, sometimes to the beatings. The world is going somewhere. Where the world goes, scientific advances, technological developments, Internet technology, communication technology, they provide a number of possibilities. We're in a time train. As the train leaves, you sometimes walk forward, sometimes backwards. Then you look out of the train, Mr. Secretary, and you say, "How fast am I running?" But you can't fool us, we're all in the same train, and we don't eat you looking outside while you're walking slowly in the train. Sometimes you go back with the wrong policies, and then you brag about where the train is taking you, and you say, "We've come to a good place." Now, let's just say that technological development, scientific development, transmission technology, the age itself, may be taking the train somewhere, but where we come from, Mr. Secretary... [[The preacher wore a dispatcher's hat and picked up the motion disk.]] The stop you came to is the last stop. (HPP clapping in rows) He calls you our citizen, stop it! No more looting in health! No more privatisations! Stop the rights violations! Doctors and pharmacists stop their suicides! Let health policies be on the public's side! Mr. Secretary, it's burning, it's burning, it's burning! But, look, in the back, it says to the Republican People's Party Group, be on your way. Godspeed, Godspeed!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0145par0235	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0146par0236	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0145par0237	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0147par0238	Will he answer everything, Mr. President? There's no such procedure in the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0146par0239	In his speech, the preacher has been exposed to corruption all the way down the throat." he said. Sir, I want a promise of unfair teasing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0148par0241	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0149par0243	But Mr. President, the Minister will answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0148par0244	The band says it is.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0150par0245	It's called the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0148par0246	I was going to give it to him if he said it was the government.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0151par0247	That's not the way it works.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0152par0248	The Minister will answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0249	Guys, it's called the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0154par0250	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0253	Dear friends, of course, our friend Ozgur could be a very good mayor or something very good.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0155par0254	Let's hear it from you to your throat.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0255	It doesn't work out by putting on a show here. And our people know everything very well, watching everything, all of us. For one thing, if Adile Nashid told you about a period of time -- she didn't live in the PARTI period, she died -- she told you about the CHP period, I want to tell you that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0156par0258	He told me about your grandfather's time, your grandfather!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0259	Second: Our budget is a fair, moral budget to the end, a human-oriented budget. If there was corruption in this budget...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0157par0260	If it weren't for the court reports!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0158par0261	What will the Minister answer, Mr. Ahmet?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0262	... With this budget, we couldn't build 650 hospitals in 11 years with the health budget. If there was corruption, we wouldn't be able to build 2,243 health facilities in this budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0158par0263	Mr. President, what will the Minister answer?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0264	If there was corruption -- the satisfaction of the concerned citizen -- the satisfaction of the citizen would not increase from 39 percent to 75 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0158par0266	Mr. Ahmet, can't the Minister answer?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0267	Who's the citizen giving the green light to? Whoever he's voting for when you go to the trunk, the citizen's got a green light on that party. It doesn't happen here in show business. Again, dear friends, the money the citizen spends on health care has been mentioned.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0159par0269	Yeah, but that's not how it works. The Minister will come and answer here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0160par0270	What does the Minister have to say?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0271	Look, when we look at the number of homes that are poor because of medical expenses, when there are 80,000 households in 2002...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0160par0272	He doesn't trust the Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0273	...the population has increased, but the number of poor homes has fallen from 14,000 to 14,000 because of health care costs, and we've reduced it to 14,000.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0161par0274	I'm sorry, has the Council of Ministers changed?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0160par0275	Mr. Ahmet could be Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0276	Once again, when you go to the International Corruption Perception Index and look at it, Turkey ranked 65 percent among 102 countries in 2002, in corruption, at the present point, in 177 countries, we're 53 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0162par0277	It's not all coming out, we're saying it, we're saying it, it's not coming out. There are corruption files in the Ministry of Tourism.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0278	Once again, friends, in regard to the budget, the EC PARTY has brought control to international standards.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0162par0279	Once you're out of power, there'll be corruption files. There are hundreds, hundreds!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0280	For the first time, military goods, municipal economics, social security agencies...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0163par0282	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0283	I'm saying that all subsidiaries and subsidiaries were supervised during the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0164par0284	We'll see them all, God willing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0153par0285	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0165par0287	Mr. President, Mr. Group, in response to his speech of the Vice President, I've distorted the facts and told them that if I told them the truth, I'd told them about another period, but other than that, we've been accused both of our side and our group. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0166par0288	No charges!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0167par0289	For example, what are many other accusations?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0168par0290	We don't have any charges against him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0167par0291	What are many other accusations, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0169par0292	He'll tell you there, sir, over there!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0170par0293	I'll tell you separately, sir. Now, first of all, he's the one who led me astray from the truth...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0171par0295	Okay.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0170par0296	...to not speak the truth...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0171par0297	Okay.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0170par0298	Do I need to go on?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0172par0299	Yes, I do.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0171par0300	All right, come on. Two minutes, no teasing, Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0173par0304	Bravo, Mayor, that's it!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0174par0306	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if, of course, the ruling party group, after giving its speech, stands up like this, the ministers show that their body language and chemistry have been corrupted, and the ruling party's vice president goes out and tries to take a stand up to 60-seven years ago, then the opposition is in place. [[The voices of the CHP's ranks (Bravo) applaud; the noise from the AK PARTI's ranks]] Now, you know better than anyone what the state pays. You said, sir, before you arrived, citizens would pay no money, pensioners would pay 20% if they were 10 percent if they were retired.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0175par0309	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0174par0310	Now, my aunts on the screen, my uncles... for God's sake, let me tell you, they'll either agree with me or you. Aunty, if you went to the state hospital without the price difference, you're paying $5 more if you went in private, $12 more, Mr. Ahmet Bey says you can't pay. He's charging you $3 more per prescription. He says we're not taking from you, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0176par0311	Back in the day, a citizen couldn't get his funeral from the morgue, couldn't get it!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0177par0312	Let go, let go...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0174par0313	It's the same medicine... the government doesn't pay for the prescribed medicine, the cheapest one, aunty, you'll make the difference. The pharmacist says you don't notice Ahmet Bey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0176par0314	His funeral was held hostage in the morgue.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0174par0315	Uncle, there are more medicines written than three pens, you'll give them another dollar each. They say, "We're not taking that kind of money," says Ahmet Bey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0178par0316	He's lying!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0174par0317	When they go to the private hospital, they ask for the difference. Ahmet Bey says, "We don't want it." The government doesn't pay all the charges, they say it's all right if you give me another $26. Uncle Ismail. Ahmet Bey says there is no such thing. You've come to the meeting early, you can't go to the same clinic twice in ten days, you'll pay for all the examinations. They say, "Is Ahmet Bey alah?" They're asking for MRI, they're asking for money in three days, three months from now for a primary examination, and exceptional health care... they're going to drill a hole in your knee and call it money for bloodless surgery, or we're going to do it from top to bottom. Ahmet Bey says there is no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0179par0319	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0174par0320	Believe him if he's right, believe me if I'm right.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0180par0322	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0179par0323	Come in, Mr. Aydın, I'm listening.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0180par0324	I'm not going to answer, I'm just saying, for the record,
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0179par0326	Guys, let's be quiet. Members of parliament, please, a silence, Mr. Aydın will need to be recorded.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0180par0327	Our people know who's telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0181par0328	They don't know, and we're just saying it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0180par0329	Anyway, the public won't turn on the green light, so they're trying to turn the green light on themselves.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0182par0330	Look, look, the light of the people is here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0180par0331	They're playing a game here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0183par0333	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0184par0334	Mr. Ahmet speaks for the government because of the change in minister!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0185par0335	Ahmet, there's still time for you, take your time.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0186par0336	The amendment to the Council of Ministers must be made at once, sir. I mean, it'd be good, it'd be good. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0187par0368	The eighth speaker is Hülya Güven, İzmir MP. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0188par0371	Mr. President, members of lawmakers are here to give my regards to the People's Hospitals Foundation of Turkey and the People's Health Foundation of Turkey on behalf of the group regarding the budget bill of 2014. Congressmans, in fact, what we see here, when it's called health care, is that for some reason, buildings are always coming to mind and buildings are described in the context of people, patients, physicians, healthcare workers. Congressmans, when we look at the budget, we see that the Public Health Institution budget is $6 billion,874 million in 2014, the Public Hospitals Institution is $9 billion, 29 million, and the Ministry of Health is $2 billion,530 million. I mean, the Health Department's budget is smaller than the Public Hospitals Institution and the Public Health Institution. When we look at the expense pens, it's mostly staff and transportation. Again, the budget shows that the Ministry of Health is separate, the Public Health Institution is separate, and the Public Hospitals Institution is separate. I mean, the Ministry of Health is probably being destroyed, first his budget will be reduced, then he will be eliminated. Family physicians, inoculations, infectious diseases, secondary hospitals, many other services are connected to the Public Health Institution. For that reason, measles, polio have already become widespread in Turkey, and the ministry has taken no precautions. Only 7,000 cases of measles were reported in 2013. The immunizations were remembered again by the Republican People's Party's motions. But what did we see? The governorships are opening stations at the malls, starting inoculations. I guess the governors are gonna have to take care of your health problems now. There's no telling who's been vaccinated or who hasn't been vaccinated. We've got at least 1,500 kids today with measles sugar. Tomorrow we'll see the shapes of polio. Does Mr. Muezzinoglu, our Minister of Health, know? Is it being taken care of? I don't think so. Because it's not his job, it's the Public Health Agency's. In fact, we know that health care goes to the patient's foot. You do the opposite, patients go to get health care, but how are they doing? By miles of travel. It's hard to imagine how a patient would end up in a city hospital across town that you're so proud of. The Prime Minister is talking about city hospitals. What's in the city hospitals? Qualified rooms, homes, guesthouses, walking-band corridors, ladders, green roofs, gray water systems, convention centers, restaurant, restaurant, restaurant, and so on. For a hospital, of course, all of this is required, but one thing has been forgotten, Mr. Secretary, who serves the patient? Buildings or health workers working inside? You're ignoring health workers. How to give health care to disabled people, cancer patients, leukaemia children, there's no way to tell them. There is no bone marrow transplant today, there is no payment. It is called. In hospitals, patients die in toilets, but two days later they're discovered. Congressmans, it is understood that it is the duty of the Public Health Institution and the Public Hospital Foundation to actually destroy the Ministry of Health to put all health workers in contract and get them to the health subcontractor system completely. If health subcontracts, one patient will be forgotten today, five patients tomorrow, 10 patients the day after tomorrow. Here we are, brought into health with transformation, as we can see, if we have money, we will have health. Even the disabled today can't get their medical supplies. Congressmans, when we look at the purpose of the institution of public hospitals and the institution of public health, we see that it is defined as bringing new understanding to ensure the opening of accountability to citizens. However, I would like to read you the Court's Control Report of 27/9/2013, which is also valid for all three institutions: under the financial table of public administration, the book, the table, and documents that should be submitted by the Court on the basis of Article 685 on Article 8 of the Court Law, which is required for the 2012 account period, but cannot be provided. Where's the clarity in that? You don't keep your promises, you avoid the control of your expenses, it's understood. Before the elections, private hospitals were called free. What hospitals get their contribution? Big hospitals, Class A hospitals. Because it doesn't matter what you contribute to a patient who can go to those hospitals. Small hospitals try to get less contributions, but today, they close, including physicians, health workers remain exposed. I mean, it's the day when patients can be treated if they have money. Now, the Public Health Agency sent over three summers in July to make the hospitals uninterrupted. But was it done? It wasn't done. With the 4+4+4 system brought in, citizens without education, without knowledge, without health, poor and unemployed are deceived by buildings. Right now, who will replace the paramedics? Health workers from Africa, Turkish republics, executives. This budget must have been prepared for them. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0189par0383	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of party groups are over.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0190par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0189par0386	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0190par0387	I want word, Mr. President, to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0189par0388	On what grounds?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0190par0389	It's the bullying, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0189par0390	Against who? For what?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0191par0391	Ma'am, Mr. Fatma is the suitor for the Hawk. He wants to be a minister, my friend.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0192par0392	The session's over, you're adjourned, Mr. President, it's over.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0193par0393	Faruk Bal will answer my name on the stand. Since he said my name, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0194par0394	I'll give you an explanation. Sit down. Don't make a new tease. One minute, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0193par0398	Mr. President, sir, I'm not going to put up with any more bullying. Thank you, Faruk Bal Bey, who has caused a misunderstanding by asking me to answer the report and asking me to. Thank you very much. When I started talking about a joke, a joke that would bring the sides together, and I started talking about it, let's keep your eyes on your knees, and talk in terms of discipline, and talk in terms of very ugly, dirty language and bullying, I wanted to make a joke today about putting on a red shawl that the women's deputies gave us in the parliament to express their verbal, written, etc., and so on. I don't want to be misunderstood. I want to thank you for this opportunity.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0195par0402	You all have red shawls, why?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0196par0403	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0197par0404	Mr. President, now, because of my speech, Mrs. Halide took a promise and pronounced it in her eye. Who said that? Did I say that? He's passing Ali's hat on to Veli. He wants a say in it, okay?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0196par0405	Everything is clear in the reports, Mr. Honey, in the written reports. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 Now, we're going to start talking on behalf of their people. Bedrettin Yıldırım, Bursa MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Bedrettin.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0442	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on the ongoing bill of the law. I salute your high council. Dear MPs are a democratic, secular and social law state of the Republic of Turkey, as stated in our Constitution. Every Turkish citizen is born with the right and authority to develop his material and spiritual existence in this direction by taking advantage of the basic rights and freedoms of our Constitution and social justice, but until the EC PARTI governments come to power, it has been managed by Jacoben, the enforcer, the enforcer, with a oppressive understanding that devastates his nation. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, the Constitution implemented its understanding of social law and presented a number of social projects to our nation's service. In particular, it's useless for our people to show us red cards here when they see red cards. Our nation has shown us eight red cards. In fact, it's futile for those of you who can't come together from 1950 to here today to show us red cards here. You'll see the 9th red card on March 30th, hopefully. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, our government has carried out a series of social projects, from giving free textbooks to students, paying for poor poor people's food revenues, to meeting the medical expenses of our needy people, raising the monthly benefits of our fellow soldiers, spouses and parents, to nearly 6 billion students, to build universities in all the provinces near our children's nearest...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0199par0447	You left them all out of a job.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0448	...supported college education, spread the student dorms, started giving students free breakfast in dorms, again providing 16 million tons of fuel to needy people who needed it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0199par0449	Coal, coal... do you know the corruption there, in the coal?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0450	He has offered a series of aid to our disabled citizens, to our poor citizens, to pay for medicines and treatments that exceed their ability to pay, to our own government, to end discrimination in the healthcare sector, to unite SEC and state hospitals.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0199par0451	The horse's horse has passed the Üsküdar. He's talking... the coal people are moving the goods!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0452	Dear lawmakers have provided AK PARTI authorities to wrap up the benefits of our citizens who have suffered natural disasters as soon as possible, raising the assistance of the women who have passed away to their parents during the AK PARTI period and raising them to 500 lira today. The AK PARTY authorities have provided all kinds of support for young people, families, children, widows and orphans who prepare for marriage. Dear MPs, when we came to power, parties that announced that day's election declarations were publicised, that 1 million farmers were defendants with Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops, and that you would fill these farmers with stadiums?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0200par0454	Are those who pay with dignity guilty?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0455	And today, the Agricultural Loan and Agriculture Bank, which gave such a large sum, unfortunately, is no longer what you say, has now made a peace treaty with farmers, giving farmers the loan they want.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0201par0456	What farmer?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0457	The amount of loans available today exceeds $20 billion, and the return of this loan is in 98 per cent. Don't overdo it here. Speaking here, the speakers of opposition parties are trying to express themselves in another country.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0202par0458	Last year the sunflower was $1.50, this year it was $1.00!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0198par0459	Today, the state of the Republic of Turkey is with its farmer, its nation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0202par0460	You're fooling people!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0203par0461	Do you?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0204par0462	Congressman, the election is imminent!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0205par0463	The loan used in 2002 is only around 1 billion, with the support of 1,800 trillion. Today's support has increased to 9 quadrillion, the loan used is 20 billion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0206par0464	How many are in action, what are the percentages in action?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0207par0465	Mr. Lightning, you're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0206par0466	What percentage do they do, what percentage do they do?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0208par0467	You're not telling the truth, tell the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0209par0468	The agricultural loan co-ops facing closure use 5 billion credits today, becoming a brand for farmers and Turkey, a friend of the farmer. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] With these feelings, I wish the budget would bring blessings. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0210par0472	How much is the bait? What about the bait, the fertilizer, the medicine? Tell me about them. How much is the diesel?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0211par0473	Yeah, you never mentioned agriculture!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0212par0474	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0213par0475	Mr. President, in his speech, he insulted our party's personal identity by referring to our party as those who didn't come together.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0212par0476	Did he mean your party?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0213par0477	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0212par0478	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0213par0479	If he comes out and apologizes, I don't have a say in the matter.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0214par0480	Are you the one who doesn't come together on both sides?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0215par0481	I didn't mean the party, it's true, I said it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0216par0482	If he meant the party...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0217par0483	Isn't that how we understood it, didn't you mean the CHP?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0218par0484	Don't take it personally, why are you offended?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0219par0485	Why are you offended? He didn't say CHP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0217par0486	If he didn't mean the CHP, I don't want the word, but if he does, let him stand up, let him say, I didn't mean theCHP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0220par0487	No, no... I didn't mention CHP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0221par0488	Just promise me one minute, Mr. President, and he'll say it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0222par0489	Why are you offended? He didn't say CHP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0223par0490	Congressman, get up, tell me I didn't mean the CHP, it's that simple.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0224par0491	Yeah, we talked about this, not CHP, so don't take it personally.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0223par0492	Okay, so we're not talking.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0225par0493	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0226par0494	If he said I meant you personally, we'd make it look red. You can't keep your promise.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0225par0495	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0226par0496	You will be opposed outside Parliament.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0227par0497	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0228par0498	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0229par0499	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0228par0500	Mr. orator, it's obvious that by referring to the CHP, those who couldn't come together after the 50s said, Now I don't mean you. He says we're in the opposition, so he means us. I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0229par0501	Dear Honey, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0228par0502	But, sir, let him tell us the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0230par0503	Yeah, who are you talking about, Hodja? Tell us to get rid of it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0231par0504	The AKP, his own party!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0232par0505	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0233par0506	Get up, if you don't mean us.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0232par0507	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me. I mean, I don't think it's appropriate for the spirit of the 69th Amendment to say, "Don't pick on me after every speaker here on the stand." If we act like this, the ruling party's speakers are not supposed to speak here at all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0234par0509	Sir, if there's any intention, let them explain who you mean.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0235par0510	Sir, let him say I didn't mean the MHP, I'll give up my request.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0232par0511	What are you doing, Mr. Lightning?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0236par0512	It was just a figure of speech, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0232par0513	He didn't say he was targeting anyone. He said he wasn't aiming, Mr. Honey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0237par0515	He meant the failed opposition, Mr. President. So if they consider themselves failures, let them say so.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0238par0516	He meant the AKP, the AKP! He obviously couldn't have his own party.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0239par0517	Mr. President, what's wrong with that? If they don't come together, they're better off breathing. God forbid.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0240par0518	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, we've come to talk on behalf of the government. The first word is Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes. Congressmans, if we maintain silence... Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. I'm here on the basis of the 2014 budget of my ministry and my department's associated association, the High Council of Tobacco and Alcohol Markets. I, Mr. President, would like only to discuss future projects, the future of Turkish agriculture, to discuss this, to address only my valued lawmakers on this, but unfortunately, when all speakers come out, here, here, it went down, like this, like this, agriculture went down, like this, like this, died, whether it's intentional or not, in order for the record to get a false impression in our nation's mind.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0241par0528	Aren't we talking about the budget, the 10-year development plan? And the reason why we're constantly emphasising it on 2002 is basically where we've taken over after that, and what's the next development that we've taken over, and what's the point that we're taking down both the history of this development and the nation and the Supreme Assembly, is simply to account for it. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have reached their most stable stage, for the first time since 1960, by showing positive growth in the 9/9 of the last 10 years, with the actions of our governments. $23.7 billion in agricultural revenues, the sector where we took over per capita income at $1,064 a.m., $62 billion in total agricultural revenues and a strong position with $3,591 per person's income. Ten years ago, as of agricultural product, Turkey was ranked 11th in the agriculture sector, Europe was ranked 4th in the world from 2008 to today, maintaining its position in the seventh place in the world, and Europe to the 1st. The rise has also been confirmed and expressed in reports by many international organisations, including OECD, World Bank and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Agriculture exports rose from $4 billion to $16 billion. In the last decade, Turkey's total foreign trade surplus in the foreign trade of food substances has sold 41 billion dollars -- a positive, additional -- more than what Turkey has bought to the world. In all, our total exports of agriculture over the past decade are larger than our total imports, including rubber, cellulose, paper, timber, textiles, and the fiber used by the tire industry, including the raw materials used by the industry over ten years. We have a huge surplus in food, but in total, we're still positive as a whole agricultural sector. Here, of course, as it was said, in 2002, Turkey exported 1,480 food products, food products, agricultural products to 161 countries, and today it exported 1,663 products to 188 countries. Now, from time to time, Turkey also imports this, imports this, and some of the friends who don't pay any attention to exports, who don't pay any attention to exports when it comes to us, praise the exports of the Netherlands, for example. However, the Netherlands imports 72 billion dollars, with $12 billion in agricultural employment, producing, importing agriculture imports, processing and exporting it to the world. Now, when we do something like this, for example, $2.4 billion, 804,000 tons of silk -- for demand -- and we import it into 8.7 billion dollars of products, exports, wow, Turkey imports, Turkey falls into these states? And for wheat...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0242par0533	Don't we import cotton, Mr. Secretary? Please, don't twist it. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER grew up, grew up...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0243par0535	Straighten out Turkey, why don't you? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER grew up, grew up...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0242par0537	Are we importing cotton or not? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), then Turkey had no power. How could he have no power? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), then Turkey had no power.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0244par0541	And you import his cotton. The industry of Turkey has also grown, as has Turkey's textiles. At that time, Turkey's exports and exports are different today. The need is different.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0245par0543	The farmer's crying, the farmer. Say something to the farmer's crying, Mr. Secretary. GEDA, MEHMET, MEHMET, MEHMEDI EKER (Secondly) either in wheat or in wheat. The farmer's crying, the farmer. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey, in the world's export of wheat...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0246par0547	How's that, Minister of Agriculture? Minister of Agriculture of France! In the period of our government, it has been the world's 1st or 2nd since 2005.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0247par0549	You imported 23 million tons of wheat. When we took over, Turkey was the 11th in the export of wheat, the 11th in the world. We took Turkey from the 11th place to the 1st place, to the 2nd place. We'll continue from now on. Minister, did you or did you not import 23 million tons of wheat? My friend, my dear friend, he is the raw material the industrialist will use. You're not in need... The other side's taking... You're not doing it because of the need, you're doing it to export it. You're importing it to export it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0248par0555	Why do you allow infected wheat imports? Mr. President, of course, in many countries in the world, a friend of ours just told us that agriculture is not supported by agriculture, such as New Zealand, is entirely produced in liberal conditions. But other than that, in many countries around the world, all powerful countries support agricultural sectors. So we support it, and from where we're taking over, we've increased five times the support because it's $1.8 billion now, 9 billion now, 9 billion now...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0249par0557	What's your tax on the farmer? Your tax on the farmer's diesel is 10.5 billion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0248par0558	What you get from the farmer, you give to the side. Look, that's not true.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0249par0560	Why isn't it true? Look, it's definitely not true. Let's do the math. Let's do the math. Look, 1.5 million tons of farmers use diesel. Multiply that times 6.6 billion liras.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0250par0564	Mr. Secretary doesn't know math.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0249par0565	ETV, 3.5 million litres of VAT.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0251par0566	Not 1.5, but 3.5 million tons, Mr. Secretary. The price of this, the tax, is $6.6 billion in total.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0252par0568	It's all in there! Where did 10 billion dollars come from? One says nine billion, the other says eight billion. Oh, my God! You know, reading some numbers, seriously, please, let's take it. The Prime Minister also said that his mathematics was bad. If you say it really correctly, I'll have no objection. Don't ask the minister about math.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0253par0574	Doesn't he use 3.5 million liters in agriculture? Oh, come on. The price of 6.6 billion total mazots. He doesn't use 1.5 million tons; he uses 3.5 million tons. If this were all tax dollars, you're saying you're taxing $10.5 billion. So that's not going to happen, I'm sorry, that's not going to happen.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0254par0579	Where did the price of the diesel come from?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0255par0580	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the Minister to make his speech and ask your questions in the QA section.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0253par0581	He uses 3.5 million tons. According to TİK figures, to the agricultural chamber...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0255par0582	I beg you, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0256par0583	How many tons does he use, Mr. Secretary? Give me the numbers right.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0253par0584	It's down to 1.5 million tons. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, now major developments have been made in agricultural loans over the past ten years. By the time we came to government, the interest rate on agricultural loans was equated with commercial loans. Look, here, I have a letter I can show you. What supports were removed on which date, when they were removed, with who's proposals and signatures. I have the English text of the letter to the World Bank, and I have the Turkish text, which I can read.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0257par0586	Read it, read it. Spare me the bullshit!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0258par0587	Let's hear it, Mr. Secretary. Here and here and in this text... Let's hear it. Look what's been removed, Congressman. Chemical fertilizer support was removed on 1/1/2002. Credit interest subsidies were lifted in agriculture. The agricultural loans were left for high interest, such as commercial loans; agricultural loans added 59 per cent of the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans added 10 points, up to 68 per cent. Mr. Prime Minister said 70%, make it clear. GEDA, AGENT AND INVESTIGATION MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), and the application of price support and base price support was cancelled in 2001. In 2002, the practice of seeding aid and delaying loans for farmers suffering from natural disasters was lifted.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0259par0593	Was the AK PARTY in power, Minister? GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY BEFORE MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI AK PARTY. It's normal. The cost of agricultural struggle and veterinary drug support was paid by 30 percent of the bill, lifted on 01/01/2002. Electricity support used in agriculture was removed in 2002. Now, this is a letter to the president of the World Bank, Wolfowitz, where these are removed and these are removed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0260par0598	Did you bring the power back? Did you bring it back? HOW many ministers are under it? Here are the names of the ministers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0261par0600	You've been showing it for seven years every year! Now, my dear brothers, in English, and in Turkish. Now, people know who's got the support, who's got the new support back. People know that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0262par0603	You brought direct income support, you're supplying electricity? People already believe it. People already know that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0261par0605	How much is the diesel? How much was the diesel in 2002, and now what? How much was the bait, now what? How much was the fertilizer, now what? That's what we're asking. For him, the opposition wants to be serious, wants to work, wants to work. Work, work, criticize me, criticize me on my head. Tell me, put it in the right way, I'm ready to fix all the wrongs, all the wrongs that might happen, and there's no problem at all, but when you stand up and you tell me about 3 billion and you tell me 9 billion things...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0263par0607	You don't have the right job, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0264par0608	You have nothing more to say, Mr. Secretary. You answer the questions we asked. Did you or did you not sit together with those who called the peasant a farmer a rainmaker? There's no support, that's what's coming when you say, "It's not true."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0265par0610	Do you give power to farmers? Now, I've just been told. Look, in 2002, dear friends, wheat weighs 230 liras, 230 pounds of wheat. A brother just told me here. In 2002, sir, it was 400-450 liras, and the grain was 400-450 liras. The records of the field crop office -- I was a secretary at that time -- are clear.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0264par0612	Who said that? 450 lira! GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), $230 in 2002, $230. 450 lira. The price declared by the Office of the Earth crop is $230. Sold wheat for 450 lira. I'll bring you the receipt, and I'll show you. It's sold for 450 liras in Yerköy. It's $230, that's the price of the land crop office, and today the Earth crop office is getting $720.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0266par0618	If we do, will you resign?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0264par0619	I've got the receipt. If we get the $450 receipt, will you resign? GEDA, MEHMET, MEHMEDI EKER, INTERVIEW AND ANIMALITY
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0266par0621	Will you resign? GEDA, MEHMET, MEHMEDI EKER, INTERVIEW AND ANIMALITY Will you resign? You quit, you quit! People will get you to resign anyway, don't worry. Will you resign? The official purchase price of the field crop office, the announced official purchase price. My dear brothers... Will you resign? Mr. President, we're not going to be talking about this by heart.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0267par0630	I'll get you that receipt.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0266par0631	Will you resign? We will speak of this knowingly, knowingly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0267par0633	Mr. Secretary, you don't know how to calculate, you get the average price, you get the average of the free market.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0266par0634	Why would a minister lie on the stand? Would he lie? Unfair lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0268par0635	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0267par0636	I'll get the $450 receipt. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, 90 billion euros of agricultural loans were used in 2003 to date during the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0269par0638	What a lie! She's not blushing at all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0270par0639	Mr. Vural, please... The $70 billion of this was subsidies, or interest discounted loans. So, the Agriculture Bank, which lets the farmer borrow from 58 per cent, up to 59, has now used $90 billion in interest, and 70 billion in subsidies are subsidies. And it's also called the return rate... and now you're giving credit, and it says: "The farmer owes money. " The farmer can pay back his debt.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0271par0641	The field, the tractor, everyone's in foreclosure. In 2002, the farmer was able to repay $38 of the $100 loan he received from the Agriculture Bank, and today he can repay 98 per cent of it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0272par0643	Mr. Secretary, can you explain to me why the French government gave you a medal? GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEKER (PEOPLE) was able to repay 71 per cent of the agricultural loan, and is now able to repay 97 per cent.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0273par0646	Minister, tell us the truth. Now, we'll know.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0272par0648	Why did the French government give you a medal?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0273par0649	Minister, why can't you look at us? Look, Mr. President, the precious MPs, the year of 2013, when the production records of the Republic's history were broken and recorded with our support and support of plant production and RD policies.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0272par0651	Explain to me why the French government gave me a medal. I'll say it, I'll say it. Tell me, I've been asking for two years. I'll say it, I'll say it, I'll say it now, I'll say it, I'll say it now, I'll answer it. I know the answer, but the House must know.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0274par0656	Mr. Secretary, just name the diesel, the fertilizer, the bait! Our wheat production increased to 22 million tons, our corn production to 5.9 million tons, our rice production to 900,000 tons, our sunflower production to 1,500,000 tons. Four of them are the record of the republic's history. In no time in the history of the Republic, Turkey did not produce 22 million tons a year, did not produce 5.9 million tonnes in wheat, did not produce 5.9 million tonnes in corn, did not produce 900,000 tons in rice, did not produce 1.5 million tons in sunflowers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0275par0658	Look at it next year, next year. If the agricultural sector had been finished, as alleged, could such products have been broken with such production records? Moreover, our struggle is not with individuals, but with one, mindlessness; two, inefficiency; three, poverty; four, poverty. We've always tried to defeat it, to change this negative painting, to develop it, and we've always been willing to do it, and we've also increased efficiency by praise.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0276par0660	Why don't we get to the subject of France, France? Today we can buy 22 million tons of wheat from 8 million hectares, which is very important. It wasn't like that before; in 2002 there were 19.5 million tonnes of grain from 9.3 million hectares, 22 million tons of wheat can be bought today from 8 million hectares. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So why are we importing hay?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0277par0664	Corn, Mr. Secretary, corn. You got the corn on its feet. This happened with efficiency growth, it's about efficiency. Fruit production of 13 million tons to 18 million tons, vegetable production from 25 million tons to 28 million tons... tomatoes, kivida, pomegranates, bananas, and so on. Dream, your dream.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0278par0668	Shall we come to France? Now, if you could just say, I understand that there's a lot of disintegration in Turkey. Why don't you just change it? Let's change the inheritance law together. Together, let's fight with you, because the fundamental problem of Turkey's land is that the land is extremely divided and fragmented.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0277par0670	How much will the corn be? I'll remind you he's here next year.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0278par0671	Will you come to the point of France and the medal? Here friends have come, they say, this much land has been abandoned, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Friends, the reason for the abandoned land is that the farmer's ability to produce is not caused by the decline of efficiency, but by the fact that the land is so small, it's not being recorded and produced because it's the problem.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0279par0673	Let's go to Poland, Mr. Secretary. What do we solve this with? We're sorting it out by mass. 4 million hectares of land were not built in any period in the history of the Republic, all the history of the Republic had been massed before us; we have completed massing 4 million hectares of land; 2 million hectares are being built now; at the end of 2014, we will have collected 6 million hectares.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0278par0675	Why is France grateful to you, Mr. Secretary? Tell me something, we've been singing for two years. Why is France grateful, and why is she giving me a medal? Now, my dear friends tell us that the French have given you a knight's badge because you've sunk Turkish agriculture. Oh, knight's badge, that's right, that's right, that's right. Tell me about it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0280par0678	You're too modest! Dear friends, look, now, France... a friend of ours told me here. It's not about us, it's about the minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0278par0680	Oh, yeah? Why was it given? Why don't you tell me why?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0281par0681	The last time they gave it to me was in capitalizations, Mr. Secretary. So you and the minister of the Republic of Turkey have been given an international badge of merit...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0278par0683	What have you done for France? Tell me about it. In fact, if you thought about it a little bit, you'd be applauding because he's the minister of Turkey, and you're a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. You shouldn't be offended by this. Sir, why don't you tell me, what favor did you make and you got that medal? Did they give you that medal on your black eye? I'll tell you now. They say... look, friends, in 2012, Turkey exported $469m in agricultural and food products to France. How many imports did we make the year you received that medal from France? Let's hear it. We have more exports. Our import is $339 million. The difference is $130 million. Now, if it was imports and stuff like that, we'd have to give them medals, wouldn't we? But it's not like that. We sell them more. So they knighted you because of the imports? I'm going to say one more thing, this is very important, please be careful.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0282par0691	We're listening, Mr. Secretary. In 2002, when Turkey had $23.7 billion in agricultural revenues, France -- one part of Europe -- has $30.7 billion in agricultural goods. France is ahead of us, and the first of Europe is in terms of agricultural revenue.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0283par0693	We're tired of listening, and you're not tired of talking! Turkey rose to 62 billion dollars in 2012, France rose to 46 billion dollars. Now the difference is $16 billion. So, Turkey, as I just said, has become the first of Europe, the seventh of the world, and these are the friends.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0284par0695	Why did they knight you? Now, the Ministry of Agriculture and the government of France, Turkey's contributions to the Minister of Agriculture, G20. Its success in fighting global hunger. High imports, live animals... GEDA gave the medal because of the performance and success of Turkey's agricultural sector. Is that why he knighted you?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0285par0700	Do you have to go to France? Here's the document. You shouldn't be jealous of that either. You guys work hard, too.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0284par0702	Bravo! Well done!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0286par0703	Mr. Minister, all workers at minimum wage in Turkey live below the poverty line. You don't seem to know!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0284par0704	At least tell me the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0287par0705	France is proud of you, Mr. Secretary! The Turkish nation is proud of us. Don't worry about it. Knight Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0288par0708	My dear Knight, our people are starving! Citizens of the Republic of Turkey, all who live in this country, both Kurd and Turkish and Arab and Circik and Laz are proud of us. Don't worry about it. Our peasant is hungry, he's miserable, my dear Knight! Look at the Turkish peasant.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0289par0711	They didn't even knight the Secretary of State. What is this?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0290par0712	Knight Minister, knight! We don't have anything to do with the pride of others. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've raised seed production to 647 thousand tons of this -- one of the most talked-about issues. By the amount of seed exports, we're up 4.279 tons. So we sell 4,279 tons more seeds to the world than we buy. It's come to this. The world's third largest seed gene bank was established. We've established a system where a total of 3,513 species of seeds are preserved. We built the world's most modern, most advanced seed gene bank here in Ankara. It's one of the projects that we're going to start in 2014, when the basin-based production model and satellites are integrated into the parsel recognition system, and the ecological conditions are taken into account, and the right amount of right products are produced in the right places. In agriculture, we're moving on to the agricultural support system, part-source and business-based support system. We're aiming to increase our seed production to 1 million tons because we've increased it to 647 thousand tons. Here, in livestock and water products -- I just said again -- production records in many areas have been broken. As for animal products, such as milk, there is the same situation here, especially in fish production. Now, for the first time in the history of Turkey, the republic, yes, for the first time -- this is very important -- the gene source he developed, the breeding heifer exports...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0291par0720	In your time? For the first time in history, Turkey did it last month. When, when did that project start? - We started it. Don't worry about it. It began at the time of the 57th government. Where did you start it? You used to make fun of the Turkish-type cow. Now he says: 'You have sent 250.' You were making fun of the Turkish-type cow when we started it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0292par0727	Tell me the truth! My dear friend, 6,000 contacts...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0291par0729	Tell the truth, the truth! He's not a Turkish cow.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0293par0731	He's already lifting his foot. He's not a Turkish cow, he's nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0291par0733	What's that got to do with anything? It's got nothing to do with it. They're Holstein, Holstein.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0294par0735	Explain the kara code, Mr. Secretary. Explain this $1 billion kara code. Now, for the first time in the history of the Republic, export has arrived. This export is: Turkey is now ready to export the pregnant heifer with a high genetic capacity of our own. Who did you give that label to? What businessman did you give the label to? The second party of this was sent from İzmir on November 29th. 6,000 links were made, 6,000 heads, and this will continue until 2018.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0295par0740	Come to the meeting with the businessman, Mr. Secretary, to the meeting with the businessman! The export of goats was done the same way.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0294par0742	Explain the square code, Mr. Secretary, the square code. They're talking about a billion dollars worth of kara code. In 1984-2002, the number of small head animals rose from 53 million to 31.9 million, with an increase of 12.7 million per cent in ten years. What businessman took those labels, the labels? Who is this Hakan Bilal Kutlualp? NOW, milk production has increased from 8.4 million tonnes to 17.4 million tons; red meat production has increased from 420,000 tonnes to 916,000 tonnes to 1,700,000 tonnes more than 700,000 tonnes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0296par0746	Why don't you tell me the number of meat imports, Mr. Secretary, the number of meat imports? My dear brothers, these will all continue as exports in the coming years. This is a particularly serious increase in milk and dairy exports in 2012; $659 million more exports were given, and our exports went up to $1.1 billion in exports of animal products. It's milk, meat, et cetera.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0297par0748	How's that, are you spilling the extra exports?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0296par0749	Could you tell me the import, please?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0297par0750	What is this, export surplus textiles? Here are the underlying studies of this development: we took the bait plants as support. The Meat and Milk Foundation was founded.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0298par0752	Explain that square code, Mr. Secretary. Who's got the kara code? We're starting new projects in livestock in 2014. Look, listen to this, learn this, it's important to Turkey. Explain this, this! Explain the square code, square code! Who took the labels?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0299par0755	Give us an answer and we'll find out, teach us this! And teach us this! Now, in terms of the goal of getting meat from meat races, dairy races, we are particularly...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0298par0757	Who is this Hakan Bilal Kutlualp, this Hakan Bilal Kutlualp? We're implementing a special meat management project in the East and Southeast Anatolian region in 2013.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0300par0759	When is this? This begins on January 1st 2014...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0298par0761	A company says it's a $1 billion job. Whose company is this? $1 billion, $1 billion! We've made it our goal to increase the amount of animalism, business, meat production by 25%. We aim to increase our production of farming in water products from 212,000 tons to 500,000 tons over the next decade. We took it from 60 to 70 thousand tons, raised it to 22,000 tons. Whose company is this, this company? Your time is up, Mr. Secretary. Whose company is this company that's taking this $1 billion job? This will continue, especially in the following system. The Project for Supporting Country Development Investments, which we started in 2006 on rural development, so far, 4,134... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER... in the agricultural and animal business... Why don't you explain this $1 billion company? Explain this to me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0301par0770	If he's gonna answer, Mr. President, open up.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0302par0771	Are you out of time? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (to continue) Yes. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0303par0775	Mr. Secretary, you haven't been able to explain the diesel, the bait, the fertilizer. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER I wish you all the best in the budget, all the best in the world. God be with you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0304par0778	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0305par0779	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0304par0780	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has stated that the values we've given in our speeches are wrong. I'd like two minutes of your word on that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0305par0781	It's not a tease.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0304par0782	Don't tease me, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0306par0783	He's accusing me of lying, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0307par0784	But he says it's wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0304par0785	He said what I said wasn't true and wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0307par0786	If he's right, how are we wrong, right, wrong...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0787	Mr. Vural, look, if we take a good look at Article 69, it doesn't give lawmakers the right to make a statement against what they're saying here because they're being bullied.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0304par0788	But by referring directly to us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0309par0789	Let him explain his position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0790	So I'll give you a minute at your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0310par0792	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0311par0793	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0794	Wait a minute, let's take turns.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0311par0795	Mr. Secretary said we weren't telling the truth, that we were speaking without support, but we'd like to show that we're telling the truth. You have to give us a say.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0796	Okay, I'll give you a minute, from your position.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0311par0797	Give it to me from the podium, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0312par0798	Sir, Article 69 says that the government, the commission, the political party group, or the lawmakers, who have a different opinion of whether or not they've been bullied or asserted by the witness, thus, at this exact point...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0799	That's where I'm making my point.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0312par0800	...because a different opinion was attributed to him than the idea that he had gone forward...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0801	That's right, I know. Look, Mr. Vural, at this very moment, when he claims that the MP has said something other than the idea he's suggesting, this thing is given.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0312par0802	Yeah, yeah, that's what I said. Yeah, he said it wasn't true, he'll prove it right.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0803	I mean, that's not your definition, but I'll give you my word. (CHP and MHP rows) I promise, guys, just a minute. Mr. Irony, take your seat. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0313par0806	Sir, during his speech, Mr. Secretary said that by pointing out with both his words and with his finger, you wouldn't understand that what we said was wrong, that it was wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0807	I gave my word to Mr. Demiröz.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0313par0808	He picked on me, and I want word from the teaser.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0314par0809	Mr. President, isn't this the way to do it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0810	Mr. Özcan, you weren't bullied.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0313par0811	My master picked on me. With his finger on it...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0813	For this reason, I have promised Mr. Demiröz. Please, come in. Then take all your deputies, and I promise you, I'll make you talk.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0315par0814	Mr. President, if I may speak from the stand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0313par0815	Mr. President, look, I don't often ask for words from bullying, but...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0816	Mr. Özcan, did he mention your name?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0313par0817	Sir, by pointing your finger at me... (AK PARTY RINGS) Is that possible?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0308par0818	It didn't. On behalf of your group, I promise Mr. Demiröz, from the bench, two minutes, over. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0316par0822	Thank you, Mr. President. There's one thing we don't agree with the Minister: there are TİK figures, the figures of the Union of Agriculture of Turkey. The diesel used by the farmers is 3.5 million tons or 3.5 billion litres/years, but the Minister presents a 100 percent different situation at each meeting, saying this is 1.5 million tons. The second: the GDP growth rate is 5.2 per cent in GDP from 2002 to 2012; 2.9 per cent in the agricultural sector. We are net importers of agricultural raw materials in foreign trade, yes. We also say that Turkey is an exporter of food products. According to international standard industry classification, we have a current deficit of $3.6 billion in agriculture in 2011; in 2012, I want to say that $2.1 billion is $1.5 billion in 2013. Finally -- in terms of time -- I would like to say that Mr. Secretary says that the world is the seventh largest agricultural economy. Okay, we've agreed, 7th but we're 22nd place in the world in terms of farmer's income per capita in Turkey, and let the Minister say so. I want to tell you in particular that there is $43,000 per person in Turkey, $43,000 in Canada, 41,000 in France, 33,000 in the Netherlands, and $31,000 in the United States.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0317par0826	Where did you get those numbers?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0316par0827	Then, at each meeting, he gives a number on the OECD. He's given 2,1 on OECD. In 2002 -- if you do the same calculations -- he's going from 3.1 percent to 2.1. That's why, Mr. Secretary, he's been using the numbers like this every time. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0830	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0319par0831	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0832	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0319par0833	For the same reason, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify some things.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0834	Look, I'll give you my word, too, but, Congressmans, everyone here has their own numbers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0320par0835	But it's wrong. He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0836	We cannot determine whether this is true or wrong here; neither can you determine it, nor can the Court determine it. Everyone's saying their own numbers. So he said wrong, and I told the truth. If we get into an argument like this, we won't be able to get out.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0321par0837	I'll put it in concrete.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0838	I give you my word. Two minutes, but let's not do this again, guys.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0321par0840	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0322par0841	Mr. Secretary's doing polemics.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0842	Let's not do the polemic thing because everyone's saying their number.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0322par0843	Not you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0844	He said his numbers, too.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0846	Mr. Secretary, every time you come up here, you fool people with false numbers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0324par0847	Then don't pick on me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0848	Here's the pick-me-up.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0849	Now, Mr. Ilhan told me about the diesel, and I'll go into other matters.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0318par0850	But you've made a promise of teasing, so please don't be so picky.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0851	I'll go into other things. You called us without support. It's the same thing. What kind of a thing would that be? Mr. Secretary, I asked you a question.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0325par0854	You go out to answer, you tease.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0855	Did you and the businessman attend a meeting like this, a conversation like this? Why aren't you answering? It's very important. There, the businessman accuses the peasant and the farmer of being a marauder. You're sitting in this office with the farmer's sweat. You have to answer that. That's where the video is. We can listen to it together. Something else: Mr. Secretary, your ministry's name begins with the name "Gida". The two congressmen who came to visit you are being poisoned by the food they eat in your office.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0325par0857	Congressman, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0858	Now, I mean, you're going to provide the public with food safety, because you can't provide your guest with food security in your own Ministry. Another thing: Recently, the educational publishing office is holding a meeting in Antalya, where the farmer's money is played as a dancer at the meeting in Antalya; then they ask the Ministry official, who says: "Sir, the meeting was ours, but it was the dance hotel's." Is that a thing? You will answer these questions, Mr. Secretary. These are very simple questions.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0326par0861	There's no such thing. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0327par0862	Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0863	The Turkish farmer, the Turkish peasant, expects you to answer them, so don't distort the numbers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0327par0864	Mr. Orator, speak in a clean language, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0323par0865	I'll get you a receipt for $450 in 2002. When the questions are over, I'll answer them. From here, the Turkish farmer listens to us, send the receipts, $450, $430. Yes, you're a minister who's been in charge for seven years who doesn't know how much wheat costs. What else should we call you? May God give you some advice.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0328par0870	Speak in a clean language, please, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0329par0871	He's right, he doesn't know how to calculate.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0328par0872	Well, now, the second speaker...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0330par0873	Mr. President... Mr. President, without bullying...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0328par0875	I looked at you, and you didn't, so I started. I looked at you, Mr. Secretary, and you were talking to the congressman, and I didn't think you'd want a word. If you want, we'll give you two minutes, of course. So, now, let me speak from my position. On the stand. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER, OPEN UP HERE, PLEASE. If you want it without bullying, you have to come to the stand. Yes, the liar says so. On the stand then, Mr. Secretary, no problem.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0331par0882	Minister, come out, don't be afraid!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0332par0883	Get out, don't be afraid!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0333par0884	I congratulate the Vice President. He forced the Minister to stand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0334par0885	You forced him on the stand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0335par0886	Gently, gently... Here you go. Two minutes, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mr. President, it is your right, of course, to oppose him, and I have no objection to that. But I'm returning it to the one who called me a liar, and I'm returning it to you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0336par0891	You told us.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0337par0892	You said it, you said it! GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Keep going), OK? I've answered all the questions I've been asked during my time in office, and then I'll answer them. Give it to me, give it to me! These questions, none of the questions you're asking, don't worry... Just give me an answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0338par0898	I have four unanswered questions from our Minister. There's something to tell you that you're wrong, that you're wrong, that you're telling, that you're transmitting, that you're...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0337par0900	Did you or didn't you? I didn't see him. Say, "I didn't see him." When you say that, you bring them here and you tell them like there's something going on. I didn't see him. So don't tell him. You ask me questions, and I'll answer that. Give it to me! I'm not someone else's lawyer. What the interested person says is his own opinion. I'm...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0339par0906	I asked you if you were there.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0340par0907	Explain this $1 billion job. Who did you give it to? Look, we go to dozens of meetings every day, hundreds of people, like where you are, you're in the environment, you're talking, we're talking, we're answering some of it, we're not answering some of it. You know what I mean? Answer the $1 billion job! That's what it's all about. You ask the question properly, and I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0341par0911	When? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMEDI EKER, WE CAN'T GIVE TO THE PEOPLE... Let them hear it. There's no account we can't give to Parliament, all of it. Just give it to me!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0342par0916	The Ministry is falling apart, falling apart. No one was poisoned in my position. That's also false information, not real information.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0343par0918	You didn't repeat it. What you call a dancing matter is not real either. Answer the $1 billion tag. He has nothing to do with us, with the Ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0344par0922	Take a look at this, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0345par0923	That difficult question... Sit down...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0346par0925	Answer me! Answer me! Sit down, dear. Don't shout... it's embarrassing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0347par0928	Congressmans, please... Mr. Vural, please. Now look, today, ladies have marked this in special clothing today to protest your stand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0348par0932	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0349par0933	Mr. President, look, he's insulting us all, you hear me? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMEDI EKER I've seen you on such a day... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (e.g.), especially on a day like this... Mr. President, people like you say, he says himself.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0350par0939	These people put up with you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0351par0940	I'm after public property, I'm after orphan property...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0349par0941	They're protesting someone like you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0350par0942	I'm returning it to you, exactly!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0351par0943	...the poor poor, the strange guru...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit03spe0352par0944	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0352par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Equipment Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 The Commission and the Government are here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0353par0035	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0352par0036	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0353par0039	Sir, in his speeches, Mr. Secretary has attributed some inadmissible statements to our group from our MPs. In this regard, I'd like to invite our group, lawmakers, to apologize for this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0352par0041	Mr. Secretary, do you have a statement to make? Let me make a statement. Here you go. Mr. President, I've never thought categorically of any time in my life, I've never targeted a mass in any way, not today or any other time in my life. It's against my nature, my style, my style. I didn't mean the person who called me a liar, but I told him. If there's more than one person among them, I mean it's just people who call me a liar. Other than that, I've never talked to a crowd, and I didn't mean them. I'm so sorry today. Why am I so sad? Because on a day like this, when we're doing budget talks, we're calling me liars, I'm calling myself liars, I'm calling myself liars when I'm on the stand, and I'm using the right to answer, and on a day like this, it occurred to me that on a day like this, it's limited to the person that I'm telling us today, our friends, the ladies of the law, the ladies of the law, are saying that this is not the proper way to insult me in this way.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0354par0047	Are you apologizing to the General Assembly? Apologize. Other than that, no one should take it personally... because I never intended such a thing, I never intended such a thing, never had a style, never had an accusation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry... So I don't want anyone to take it personally, I don't think it's right. Is Mr. President apologizing? If there is such a thing, it is unfair. If it's correction, I want to fix it this way. I pay my respects. Is Mr. President apologizing?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0355par0055	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0356par0056	Mr. President, a protest that you're involved in is not only a matter of style, it's clearly and clearly for another purpose. So instead of Mr. Minister going down the path of Tevil, I would like to call on you to express to you that it is not directly relevant to the subject of which your client is involved, or rather to which he is complaining, that he apologizes for it, so clearly and clearly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0355par0057	But that's what he said.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0356par0058	I mean, there's no need for... It's obvious what you're doing, and by relating to it, it's not about style. Here you are giving false information. It has been said that you are lying. It has not been called liar. He probably used the same thing himself.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0357par0059	Unsupported...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0356par0060	They're throwing without support. He said so. I didn't say they're throwing it away. About that which none of us approves of, and about that which is unbelief.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0358par0063	Without a document...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0356par0064	...has continued to link an attempt to a taunt here. Please tell him that this is not related to your actions, that it can't be put in the same context, that he apologizes if such a perception exists. That's the point, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0358par0065	He said he fixed it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0359par0066	He said it alone. That's what he said.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0360par0067	He's not talking to you, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0359par0068	I did not target a group or a person in connection with the actions of female friends.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0361par0069	Sir, the action... he said himself that it was about the property... Mr. President, it's not about language. Therefore, it is not right for the Minister to take a public matter here and associate it with the bullying he's being bullied. I beg you... You know what we're doing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0362par0072	You're absolutely right. But Mr. Secretary said he didn't act on that analogy, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0361par0073	Sir, you may say that you didn't act that way, but in the public opinion of the purpose...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0362par0074	Mr. Secretary said that. I'm saying that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0361par0075	Sir, no, this isn't about language.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0362par0076	No, he said it wasn't in style. You're not with style, and today...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0361par0077	No, he said the protest was about style.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0362par0078	But in his current statement, he explained that his move was not based on the action of the women's MPs.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0361par0079	No, sir, he didn't say that. That's not what he said.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0362par0080	That's what I heard.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0361par0081	On the contrary, he says: I said it in terms of style, when there were protests about the property. He said it clearly and clearly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0363par0082	Let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0362par0083	Mr. Secretary, let's hear it again. Mr. President, I've just said enough yellow and clear. I'm just saying that you're lying unfairly because you're lying to me from the stand and you're lying to me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0364par0085	You're not looking at reports, you're looking at reports. Look, there are all the reports. There are all the reports. So, I referred to him. My answer is to what I say and I accept it. What I'm saying is that those individuals themselves are not a group, they are never a mass.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0365par0088	What do you mean, people like you? As the ruling member of the Supreme Assembly, a group, as a whole, is never a group of MPs. I've said it over and over again, and I'm fixing it again. So, who... He did exactly like the answers, he did the same.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0366par0091	Yeah, you got to be brave! Look, now... You're having an affair with... GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) - Here you go. I'm talking about the action. They may not see fit for us to pick on them. Now, if some of our friends have any intention of fighting...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0367par0097	Mr. Secretary, are these words related to today's action?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0368par0098	That's what he said. Mr. President, what I'm saying is, look, you're a witness, and all of our MPs are witnesses. I said on the stand, I was insulted here, falsely accused, that I returned the same word to those who insulted me, that I didn't want to say anything else, that I returned it to them, and that I said it shouldn't happen on a day like this, that's what I said. The person I'm dealing with is never a mass, it's not a party group, I'm saying it again. He still won't tell me, he still won't tell me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0369par0102	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0370par0103	So, Mr. Secretary, in terms of correcting the actions of today's women's lawmakers... If anyone's going to apologize, everyone's going to apologize.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0371par0105	The MPs like you said, like you said, let the president look at the reports.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0370par0106	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0372par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0373par0108	Is that possible, Mr. President? He wants to talk about bullying, folks.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0370par0109	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0374par0110	Looking at us, the MPs like you said, I'm returning it to the Minister. Not like us, like the lawmakers, then.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0370par0111	But he said it wasn't relevant to today's action. I promise to tease Mr. Oktay Vural. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0375par0114	Sir, not to me, but to lawmakers about the group...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0376par0115	To all of us, lawmakers like you," he said, "let him apologize. Either he apologizes...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0370par0116	Well, you asked for it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0375par0117	I don't have a commitment right now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0376par0118	I want the word because the MPs like you said it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0377par0119	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0378par0120	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0376par0121	Will you promise us first, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0378par0122	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0376par0123	Another time, but wait. You say.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0379par0125	Mr. President, dear friends, the Minister has just explained the matter twice. He made it very clear that his audience was not a group, and here we invite everyone to use clean language today. In an accusation against them, which was limited to those who lied to the Minister, both on the stand and in their place, he called out. But he said over and over again that he didn't mean a group, Mr. Secretary, and in this case, there's no insult, no blasphemy, nothing. So we're saying that we all need to protect the dignity and honor of this House. We all need to watch our language, pay attention to our language. Yes, by referring to one person, one person said that you were lying to the Minister with the same provocations. If he said so, he meant that person.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0380par0127	What does that have to do with your actions?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0381par0128	Don't yell at me!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0379par0129	It's understood here. So, in the future, sir, you must continue.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0380par0130	Is that a thing? You'll be brave, man! And if you did, you're either gonna stand up for it, or you're gonna apologize if you said it wrong. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0379par0131	He said he'd say it. He didn't insult anyone, he didn't insult any group, he expressed his intention, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0380par0132	What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0133	Mr. Vural, I have something to say, if you'll excuse me. Yeah, I've got an announcement to make, so give me a break, fellas. I explained to Mr. Oktay Vural inside. When I made this statement, I had with me Mr. Pervin Buldan and Mr. Mihrimah Belma Line. Today, in connection with the action carried out by women's MPs, neither a crowd nor a party nor a group have been targeted. We explained it to you inside, Mr. Vural. I think you're convinced. Tell that to your friends, that's one. Second of all, you're saying that you're a veteran, so I had to explain. I think we've convinced you, Mr. Altay was with us, so let's just drop it. Here, neither a group nor a party nor a person is targeted, very clear and clear.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0383par0137	Yeah, I wish you'd done it when the AKP Group did it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0384par0138	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary did, not you. Mr. Secretary linked it, connected it here on the stand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0139	Wait a minute. It's not over, Mr. Günal. Wait a minute, I'm gonna tie it to him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0385par0140	Yeah, it's not about the band, sir. Mr. President, I understand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0142	That's one. Two, you claim the Minister has made this connection, right?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0386par0144	We do, you heard it here, the MPs like you said.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0145	He said it, he did it, he did it, he did it. Mr. Secretary said I didn't make that connection. So, what do we do now?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0386par0146	He did, you see there, look at the transcripts, he brought them back to life, you know.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0387par0147	Mr. President, about your style... now, about our style here, these are the wrong things, these are the reactions of the MP to bullying... are they?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0148	Whose reaction?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0387par0149	So that's what your reaction is for?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0150	No, I didn't react, I'm just explaining the situation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0387par0151	What does your reaction have to do with the intervention or bullying of lawmakers here? It's got nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0152	No, I said it wasn't about your group or any other group, Mr. Vural. Please, let it be love!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0387par0153	So, Mr. President, all right, since you say there's no kinship, doesn't it bother you, Mr. Secretary, that he's afflicted by it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0382par0154	I do, and I'm asking, have you established this bond, Mr. Secretary? Did you or did you not set it up on the stand, please?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0388par0155	He can't say that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0387par0156	It does... see, it doesn't. Nothing!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0389par0157	Like a man, make him apologize.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0390par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0391par0159	Guys, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0392par0160	Mr. President, the matter is understood.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0390par0161	Mr. President, the matter is understood, his lie is clear enough. Mr. Secretary must have made his point.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0393par0162	It's not understood at all, because the Minister isn't telling the truth!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0394par0163	We don't understand, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0393par0164	That's exactly what he said back there.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0395par0165	Mr. President, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0396par0166	Mr. Secretary, if that's the way it sounds, I'm correcting it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0393par0167	He didn't, sir, I said it because of the property. He said it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0396par0168	I'm gonna ask you one more time. Mr. Secretary, in your statement today, did you or did you not establish a connection between the actions of the women's MPs today?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0397par0169	Mr. President, he's made a statement twice, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0393par0170	He's not even listening! He's not even listening!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0398par0171	Mr. President, there's no such thing! Mr. President, I've explained it twice, so how many times do I have to explain it? Mr. President, there is no such procedure!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0399par0174	Please, say yes or no!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0398par0175	Well, Mr. President, you can't be court-martialed here!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0400par0176	He's explained it twice, Mr. Secretary, he said it! I've explained it twice, and I've explained it many times! Please, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0398par0178	Yes, Mr. Secretary has made the necessary statements!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0401par0179	Mr. President, don't let them keep talking about us, the CHP women aren't in this! We've explained it twice! This isn't right!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0402par0182	I mean, what's the big deal? He held us by his hand and said, "I don't know what else to say."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0403par0183	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0404par0184	Mr. Secretary made his statements, expressed his intention, said he didn't mean a group. Let's continue the negotiations where we left off, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0402par0185	Then why don't we just prove him right and talk to him?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0403par0186	Congressman, the Minister has made three statements...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0405par0187	He told me, and I told him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0402par0188	He didn't explain! As usual, as he did on the stand, he rant with words, no explanations.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0403par0189	He said, "I'm making amends."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0406par0190	You're the one who's making words!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0407par0191	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary's statement is not a satisfactory one!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0408par0192	Mr. President, I'm sorry, look, he's explained it three times, no need for so many words, it's settled. He made his point.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0409par0193	I think there's enough to go around. Mr. Halaman, you have asked for a promise, and I promise you one minute, and we will continue our work.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0410par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0409par0196	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0410par0197	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0409par0198	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0410par0199	In fact, today, I'm afraid we're all uncomfortable with these things that don't bother people like Mehdi Eker, so it suits him...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0411par0200	Don't use the expression like Mehdi Eker! Look, this statement, Mr. President, is insulting! He can't talk like a threat!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0412par0201	Look at the finger!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0413par0202	Mr. Vural, please take your seat. Mr. Halaman, come in. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0414par0205	It's obvious what you want to do, Mr. Vural!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0415par0206	Learn the language!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0413par0207	Mr. Ünal, Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0414par0208	You're doing what you always do! You're doing your usual provocation!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0415par0209	What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0413par0210	Mr. Aydın, Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0416par0211	That's what he did, look, people like you said. Wouldn't you be offended if I told you?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0417par0212	They're like Mehdi Eker!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0413par0213	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0416par0214	Wouldn't you be offended if I told you?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0417par0215	Respect the minister of the state, use the expression of respect!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0413par0216	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0416par0217	He put us in the same position as Zayid Aslan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0418par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0416par0219	He puts us in the same position as Zayid Aslan, says the likes of you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0419par0220	Mr. Aydın, Mr. Ünal, please... Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0416par0222	We don't want to be in the same boat as those people, Mr. President, so let's make it clear to whoever he told!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0420par0223	He must have told himself!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0421par0225	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0422par0226	Okay, it's over... it's over, this discussion, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0421par0227	Mr. President, our Minister of Agriculture has shown in the response section, in 2001-2002, that the 57th Government period, during the National Movement Party, has always shown that letters were sent to the World Bank during different budget talks, but for the first time, direct income support was given to the farmer during the National Movement Party period, and they continued, and then turned it into a product. Thus, for the first time, the Agricultural Ministry's database was during the National Movement Party. I've been promised to contribute to this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0422par0229	Thank you, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0423par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0424par0231	Mr. President... [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Equipment Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0425par0263	Now, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin will speak. Here you go, Mr. Hawk. [[He's always clapping for the AK PARTY.]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0426par0267	Mr. President, Mr. President... It goes on and on without raising its head, like the Faithful Ruby.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0427par0269	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0428par0270	I announced the Minister, then, after the Minister spoke.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0427par0271	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0429par0272	Mr. President, this is a greater disrespect, so you're beginning to look like the loyal Yakut.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0430par0273	Yeah, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0431par0274	What do you care who he looks like? You can't talk about a lady like that!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0432par0275	You're being very rude, I've heard, I've lost my hearing, I'm so sorry, I didn't bow my head to anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0433par0276	You can't keep your head down and not look here, someone's talking here!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0434par0277	What kind of expression of respect do you use?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0435par0278	You have to respect the court. What kind of expression is that? You have to respect it!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0433par0279	He's got his head down, he won't listen! Isn't that disrespectful?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0435par0280	Watch your language! Watch your language!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0436par0281	What kind of disrespect is that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0433par0282	No disrespect, no applause...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0435par0283	That's enough! That's enough!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0437par0284	Mr. Günal, I didn't bow my head to anyone, and that's the way it's gonna be from now on. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0433par0286	Then listen here, Mr. President. They call it. Well, listen up, then. It's a shame about the Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0438par0287	Madam Secretary's on his way to talk. We're waiting, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0439par0288	My time has begun.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0440par0289	Mr. President, please promise the Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0439par0290	Let's rewind.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0441par0291	Yeah, reset the timer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0442par0294	Mr. President, I'm here to tell you about the 2014 budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. I salute your high council. So far, from all the parties that have been with us in all the works, to my fellow lawmakers, to my dear friends in the Plan and Budget Commission, to all those who work in my Ministry, to all those who work for this work, to all my love and respect again. Our Ministry is a ministry of social justice, social well-being with economic development, where, when you look here, social peace is achieved with economic development, and the criteria for human development are tried to be met in a strong way. So, we look at integrity, we set standards, we set up the monitoring and monitoring system, and we care a lot about working with TUBITAK, TÜİK, with statistics, with our NGOs, to serve people, to serve the victim, to care for all the disadvantaged groups, to help the sick, to help the poor, to help the poor, to help the poor. If human happiness is actually our goal, maybe this Parliament, we all need to take a breath in that regard. When you look at it, social peace and peace are spreading from the pulse in this Parliament, from the tension in this Parliament to the society a wave of waves. So my request is that as a woman, as a minister, everyone is very sensitive about it. Because sometimes perception gets in the way of facts, sometimes very different, negative energy goes into all the layers of society. In this regard, we especially tried to make our understanding of welfare human-oriented and give equality of opportunity. No matter what his area, whatever his gender, whatever his religion, we've tried to make everyone a part of development by giving everyone an equal opportunity to the human being born as a human-focused, shoddy creature, even if there's a downside to it. And when we looked at the numbers, we combined social benefits with social services, we got 1.4 percent of all the pens you all know today. Today, in countries that have provided social welfare, the average is 2 percent. But when you put social transfers, such as the Ministry of Agriculture's School Milk, the National Ministry of Education's FATIH Project, up to 1.7. We also make a great effort to reach the numbers of countries that have quickly achieved social prosperity. We're not talking about $1 a day anymore, we're not talking about $2 a day anymore. We are moving on with an understanding that the whole world calls absolute poverty, which he calls "geni coefficient," is closing the gap between the rich and the poor, which is approaching for good, which is not considered a blessing or a privilege. From $4.3 a day to 30 per cent, we have reduced it to 2.7 per cent today. The goal of me and my friends, all our colleagues, is to reset this too. Hopefully, we'll get to you as soon as we reset this. We look at poverty as a consequence to prevent poverty. We're very concerned about protective, preventive measures. We especially care that our women and our daughters get equal opportunities from education and health care. And here we all have the common goal of all of us, all of the parliamentarians, of education, education, education. So, we also care about funding our girls from social services, from the Fund Board, which we gather every month to satisfy their need for housing. Because we see that lack of education also has a reason for poverty, and we started funding it in 2009. Now, if our daughters can't come despite transport training, especially because of their geographical condition in the southeast, if our daughters have to give up their retraining, we've funded 154 dorms to prevent it. We only provided 39 dorms in 2013, and 28 thousand of our students. One of the most basic rights in social welfare is social housing. We said everyone has their birthright. One of these rights is the right to reside. So we set a hundred thousand goals in 2023, for the poor to enter into the social homes, as if paying rent. So what is it now, we've delivered the keys to 18,000 people. We've converted the 1+1 to 2+1, and we've funded the cost as the Ministry, and we've planned 43,000. With Allah's permission, we will have delivered 100,000 homes to our citizens in 2023. Generally, in cities with organized industry, we've always heard this complaint: social welfare-integration connections. There's no one to hire because you have too much funding. So we put together occupational experts at the Ministry of Labor with Social Aid on him. We've started a study to get working men, healthy men, people with welfare benefits into the system, into employment. We have now established the infrastructure of the pilot's work that we're doing at the Denizli and Gaziantep, which will be widely distributed throughout Turkey. That's how we put 43,000 of our citizens into work, 44,000 of them started vocational courses. The Investor Project was very important because you're always giving fish, not teaching fishing. In total, we provided 78,000 families with Funding Project support; only in 2013 we gave 2,082 families. If they're women, we've divided them into 30% quotas, and we've done a very strong study to separate the financial support we've set aside for women first. Regular assistance was very important because we wanted to move on to thematic aid. Every month we went to a foundation manager, and because we didn't find it human to wait at a governor's door, we went to thematic aid, and as you all know, as you can see very clearly in the field, our support for our women who have passed away was 268 thousand, our families in needy military families were 55,000. One million 240 thousand people benefit from their elderly and disabled monthly allowance. So, when you look at it, we've created an important aid system that touches every aspect of life. Especially in the Southeast, again, we have established family support centres. In addition to taking women and children into social life at family support centers, we've opened all courses, if, at some point, he has the ability to take courses, whatever he has the ability to do, and we've actually created a strong infrastructure that can rehabilitate them from here with social support centers, and in other ways improve our crafts, which will reveal the beauty of the southeast. We've switched to the welfare card system. It was important that the lines were finished, so we didn't want anyone waiting in line. We decided to use the technology, and the PTT Card system that we made with PTT Bank is now handing out cards to 1,550,000 people, and the SMS electronics system is also available to 600 thousand people today, at this time, you can go to that dealership and get your money, your help, your support. We also used a technological infrastructure, which is called the PTT Bank. In this regard, we continue to work in the social justice system. We're working with TUBITAK, 40 engineers are currently building our technological infrastructure. Once the rating and integrated system are complete, we will have completed the work that will further strengthen social justice in a way that will also make the segregation of the country. One of the most important works of our Ministry of Ministry is that when you look at the Ministry projects of the Women's Status General Directorate and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and look at the budgeting, you see that the most important part is women. But I also say that I regret that my dear friend would come here and say that her status is the central budget, as if it were all budgeted for women, that she has no name, that she has no name, that she has no information. Only the support given to women from the Social Welfare System is 2 billion TL. That's the budget for the Women's Status section -- the small department in the Ministry -- you say it as a budget for women. I hope we can sit down and work together and give the right information to our citizens. We consider the woman issue to be the development of this society. There's something I've been saying everywhere, that if we're going to be the world's 10th economy in 2023, we're going to make the woman's mind, the woman's potential, all her power a part of development. That's why we thought education and health care would be essential. In fact, there's something very important that we've accomplished, that our country has accomplished. Today, we are one of the fastest countries to reduce the rate of mother and baby mortality. Every child born is insured, and no matter who its parents are, they take advantage of all health benefits until they're 18 years old. This is the success of the country; this is the success of Parliament. So, the woman with education and health, to the college environment... now, you know, we've achieved the equality of opportunity with basic education. We're coming to college: where did we come from? We've gone from 13 percent to 35 percent as far as girls go to college. Can a power that ignores a woman do that? If you're taking out an employment package when there's a crisis in the world in 2008, and you're hiring a woman, can I give you your employer's share? Can I ask you? So when we say these things, we have to say them in numbers and do what we have to do. Of course, we may be short. After all, life changes, needs change. It's all our job to satisfy these needs, but what happened at the end of it? For the first time, we broke the devil's leg, we caught 31 percent, we caught it together. When you look at the number of women with insurance, there's a 100 percent increase, women with insurance, up from 2 million to 4,600,000. 70 percent of our women who have finished college are dear friends in employment. Oh, without that, we can't be the world's 10th economy, and I believe that as a woman. And in this respect, the next process is much smarter... going to the information economy, and the world is going to the smart economy. So if we don't use half the mind, what are we going to turn into an economy? In this regard, we feel the same way, we move on, locked on to the same target. We work as a private sector, working separately as a public. In order to overcome obstacles to employment, we work with the Economic Council, the family and the business force; what should we do in connection with the workforce; how should we go; where is the world going; what should we do? Here, we'd like to strengthen the day care support for him. Because we believe that this shouldn't be a choice... we believe that we need to give both careers and children options, alternatives to the Anatolian woman, and we're working with economies, and we're not looking at it with a woman's eye as Fatma Hawk. We're trying to implement a study at the centre of the Development Ministry, headed by the Deputy Prime Minister. Fighting violence is our most important challenge. We're doing three basic things: we'll make the best law in the best legal state. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not on this bench after budget, I'm giving my final speech, but I'm betting that right now, we've passed the most advanced law in the state of law. Second, we're building institutional infrastructure: violent monitoring centers, women's guesthouse. Look, when I received the delivery, there were a thousand beds, and your brother has now raised it to 2,600. I say this to the conscience of those who listen to us in front of all of you here. Violence monitoring centers, first-step stations...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0443par0312	May we be blessed! We have the right!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0442par0313	But we're missing all of that because we need social, mental transformation, it's not going to get better in the evening, we're not going to get the best law in the world in the morning; it's a process, but in the end, there's an understanding that makes it a state policy and tries to do it. To do that, I have five minutes left, I have to pass quickly -- family values are important to us. We're a conservative democratic party, caring about family values. That doesn't mean she's weak. I'm a married woman of twenty-four years, mother of two. I'm a strong man at home, and I'm a representative of a strong family. For one thing, we know that they're not the alternative, they're the complement of each other, there's a lot more examples, there's a lot of good examples between all of you. The strengthening of a woman does not weaken the family, nor does strengthening the family weaken the woman; these are complements of one another. We also do our pre-marital training, now we have 60,000 pre-marital education, and we continue our studies throughout the marriage. There's one thing that we've seen in people who came in for a divorce and applied to the family court: with little support, you look, they want to move on to the family institution, it's entirely up to them. Why did we start this study? We did some research, 17 percent of the break-ups are getting remarried to their ex-wife, which is a very important rate. With our little counseling, our guidance service, if the family agency will continue, we also worked to give it to them. We've established legal infrastructure with our Justice Department. Hopefully, my next friend will carry on. The children's department is very important. Children are our future and our future. First, we call him "kid." I'm here to complete 75 percent of the transformation. Today, we welcome our 3,000 children in seven months with their mother and father, a campaign that met with the warmth of the nest, the Guardian Family. We have 14,000 children, all trying to improve the quality of life. At the age of 18, they are our children. We say, "They are our children." We try to keep track of their lives. For the first time, the YPK decision was published in the Official Gazette two days ago. We created the Children's Action Plan. Fighting children's labor, fighting children's brides, whatever we're going to do about children's lives, we're going to create the infrastructure for children's lives, for children's children's friends, for the media, whatever it takes. Our handicapped brothers are everything to us. We're making a new regulation on legal legislation; poverty is no longer a medical need. Now, they work for Turkey, where life is divided equally for the disabled and the disabled, not for the disabled. The biggest problem now is accessibility; they're starting to take advantage of education and health -- our cities, sidewalks, public transportation, every area needs to be adjusted according to the disabled; we've established standards on this, we're going into the penal system, we're going to do a study with civil society in which there's a difference between what does and what doesn't do, and what doesn't. Last chapter, I have two minutes left. We passed a very important law with you, two important laws in one year. What happened in the end? Look, this Parliament is one, and I want to make it clear to you how life works when we're together. After the law against the relatives of the martyrs, we now have 16,000 martyrs, and our gas has been put to work in public. Between 200,000 and 400,000 adjustments were made in the monthly months of our 33,000 martyrs; 3,000 mothers, your father's poverty was lifted; 760 citizens, the victim of terrorism, were tied to a monthly basis; 8,000 of our citizens were given interest-free mortgages; 5,000 children of our relatives received education support. We did it together, we did it together in this Parliament. On the one hand, we're doing this, but on the other hand, we're dealing with the solution process so we don't have to have martyrs. But why did you not offer your condolences to the mother of Ismail Korkmaz? I said: "We can't discriminate between mothers, we can't discriminate between sects, we can't discriminate, we can't discriminate regionally, all the pain of mothers is our pain. Ismail Korkmaz's mother's pain is also my pain. (Applause from AK PARTY) I am your first friend to make this statement that day, who made it first in the Cabinet. I'm a memory. We don't allow anyone to suffer as a child, but we don't allow anyone to do it through suffering, through suffering, by competing with suffering. And I resent you for that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers, I would like to say in the example of Mr. Rusar Hanım Ağrabadem, that support with Sadadem is the lowest income group in the private sector who can't get it, even if it means getting 9,000 bonus benefits from the state today and having intubation babies. So we didn't give Macarbadem a box of medicine, we didn't give him a gram of money; on the contrary, these people came, and they said, "We're doing this in the name of social responsibility." I'm saying from here today, on this screen, 2,500 people are doing it over Macabadem. All units making other IVFs are open. When I talked to them, we supported them, and they said they thought they were doing it. There's no backup. So, if anyone wants to come and get this support from us, we're ready for him, just as long as a parent is without children and a child is not without parents. I salute your high council with love.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0444par0326	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0445par0327	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0444par0328	Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0445par0329	The Minister said that I couldn't evaluate the budget, that I was incomplete in this matter, and that there were some errors in my other sentences. So, I need to fix...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0444par0330	Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Secretary says his feelings for you are very positive.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0445par0331	I'd like to express my feelings for him, too, but in two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0444par0332	Wait a minute... There's no insult.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0446par0334	There's no such thing, Mr. President, I didn't insult you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0444par0335	I know, Mr. Secretary, I know.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0336	No, it's not an insult, it's not an insult.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0446par0337	Mr. Yüyüker said, "I don't approve of my rights." He said, "I do."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0338	He just said: "You haven't evaluated the budget. " He said that I misjudged the budget. If it's possible, I'd like to tell you the reasons why I can't evaluate the budget in my two-minute speech here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0448par0339	But it's not an insult. Mr. Yüceer, I listened to Mr. Secretary's one-on-one, Mr. Secretary has given a very kind, non-bullying speech, and he has granted you his due...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0340	Look, he said sentences that pointed to me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0448par0341	...he never teased you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0342	No, don't tease...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0448par0343	He didn't. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0344	Look, but he said I misjudged the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0448par0345	Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0346	Please, I need to talk to you for two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0448par0347	I can't because there's no teasing. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0447par0348	What do you mean, no teasing?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0449par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0448par0350	Mr. Threeer, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0450par0351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0451par0352	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0452par0353	Mr. President, I'd like to complete the lack of information on a matter not because of bullying, but which is the responsibility of our Ministry, which requires a very urgent intervention at the moment.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0354	Come to him or you'll answer the question, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0452par0355	I'd like a brief word from my position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0356	Mr. Demirel, I believe you have an explanation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0454par0357	Mr. President, my statement is not about Mr. Secretary, but about another matter.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0358	What's this about?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0455par0359	Families...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0360	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0361	I have a request for the words of Mr. Mehdi Eker. You have a promise that the women's MPs are in action, and because of that...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0362	I didn't hear, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0363	Mr. Mehdi Eker, referring to the actions of women's MPs, has said that because of your word and because of yours, the women's lawmakers are in action today. I have a brief request for a word according to 60. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0364	Mr. Demirel, we've worked this out...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0457par0365	Sir, it's not about that, it's about the action.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0366	No, sir, we didn't.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0367	...please, I want you to understand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0368	Mr. Gardendoor, I can't understand that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0369	According to Article 60, the word is in the president's discretion. We've talked about it and we've moved on.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0370	Mr. Bahçkapılı, then I say from here: Mr. Cemil Çiçek is having an explanation on July 16th -- the chair you sit on is not a place of action, let's just say, as it always seems to be owned by the Speaker of Parliament, whatever it is. In the name of the person in charge of whom you are acting, you say the women in the assembly are acting.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0371	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0372	I'm not in action, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0453par0373	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0375	Women MPs from the National Movement Party are not in action today.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0458par0376	Sir, I'd like for the congressman to finish... please, as a lady...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0456par0377	Just for the record.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0378	But it's on the record. We know what you mean, Mr. Vural. So there's no need to repeat the same sentences, it's been recorded.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0460par0380	They're addressing the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0381	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0461par0382	Sir, the Women's Lawmakers of the National Movement Party are not in action today. And that's for the record. Because action is not a problem for women, it is a problem for men's language and body language. I believe all female lawmakers will participate in this. The hurtful, insulting talk here isn't because of us women, it's not coming out of our mouths.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0383	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0461par0384	Therefore, since we think that the men's MPs should take a real stand, no women's Parliamentary Movement Party is in action, and no Parliamentary action is in place, I remind everyone of the statement of Mr. Cemil Cicek.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0385	Thank you, thank you very much. I agree, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0462par0386	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0387	Mr. Threeer, please. What's this about?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0388	Mr. President, I'd like to do a brief parliamentary briefing on the 111 families who are now forced to live in the van at minus 10 or 15 degrees in the cold, and one of the most important tasks of the House is the current situation. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0389	Is it intended for the Minister or in general?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0390	General, to inform the House and to invite the Minister to be responsible.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0391	But that has nothing to do with what we're talking about now, Mr. Threeer. If it concerns the Minister, come and tell him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0392	It concerns the Minister and the entire House, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0393	The talks here, the statements here, have to be relevant to what we're talking about, Mr. Threeers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0394	If 111 families don't concern the Minister and the Council, who cares?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0395	Mr. Threeer, we're negotiating the budget right now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0396	It's about the budget for them...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0397	The request to explain should be relevant to the issues discussed, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0398	Mr. President, I'd like to request an immediate notification of the House under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0399	But this request of yours has to be relevant, Mr. Threeer. Then all the congressman friends can take their word for it whenever they want.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0400	You are in violation of the Civil Code. I promise to give what I want, to give what I don't want. If you say so, it's something else. You have to give me a say in your responsibility for the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0401	No, not at all, don't push me like that, I'm not at all, he's at my discretion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0402	I mean, I'm not going to give you a say in your appreciation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0459par0403	If you want a word about what we're talking about right now, I'll give you my word. Look, if you want a word on what we're talking about right now, I'll give you my word for your position for a minute, but if it's anything else, please, I may have to exercise my discretion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0463par0404	Mr. President, what else is going to happen, we're talking in Turkish now, we're describing what this is about, so if you're going to give me a say in the matter without making it polemic, please. That's what I'm saying. I'm making it clear and clear what this is about.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0464par0406	There's no such thing as a budget meeting.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0465par0407	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0466par0408	Mr. Threeer, I'm not repeating, don't leave us in a state of repetitive condition. If it concerns the Minister, please go and tell him. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0467par0410	I'll show you where to put your hand! Don't jump, don't jump!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0468par0411	You're the bouncer, the bouncer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0467par0412	You're rude!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0469par0413	Calm down.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0468par0414	There's no jumping, no jumping! Listen to yourself!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0467par0415	I'm not swearing, I'm saying I'll stick it in your eye. I never swear, and I never swear at anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0470par0416	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0467par0417	I promise what I want, I don't promise what I want. If you're going to say it... if you're going to promise it, if you're not going to give it...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0471par0418	Yeah, okay, I'll ask you again and I'll behave. Mr. Altay, you know, according to Article 69... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0472par0421	Mr. President, the 87th Article of the Constitution states the duties and powers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0473par0422	Don't jump like that!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0474par0423	Don't talk too much, sit down! You're the one jumping up and down.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0472par0424	Just a minute, brother!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0473par0425	Don't jump, don't move like that!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0474par0426	You're the one who jumps, you're the one who jumps!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0473par0427	Don't move your hands!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0474par0428	Look at your hand first!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0473par0429	Don't push our patience too hard, don't move your hands!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0475par0430	What will you do if you lose patience?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0476par0431	These duties and powers are also the duties and powers of lawmakers. In this framework, budgeting is the deputy's third basic task and authority. Mr. Secretary -- it may be in good faith -- but you can't evaluate the budget for our clerk. It has caused the public and the General Assembly to believe that our MP is lacking in his duties.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0477par0432	Did he tell you about Mr. Yüceer's person?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0476par0433	It's a tease. Besides, she's a woman's MP who demands her word, she's a minister of women.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0477par0434	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0476par0435	I don't think there'll ever be a problem, but Mr. President, after a speech, he gave me a different number than the numbers I gave him. I can't accept it unless you promise me here and promise me this.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0477par0436	Mr. Altay, I'm applying 69. If there's any bullying against Mr. Yüceer himself, of course I'll promise, but...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0478par0437	Bring in the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0476par0438	You can't evaluate the budget. That's the expression. The congressman's job is to budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0477par0439	Did he use that word to the person of Mr. Yüceer?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0479par0440	It's personal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0477par0441	Here you go, two minutes...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0480par0443	Mr. President, there is no such procedure!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0479par0446	I would hope not to take these two minutes so hard, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0481par0447	Then don't buy it. Why are you taking it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0482par0448	That's what happens when you apply the procedure, Your Honor.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0479par0449	Now, first of all, Mr. Secretary, you haven't been able to evaluate the budget. That's right, we haven't been able to evaluate the budget, and all the oratories that have already come out say we haven't been able to evaluate it, but the flaw in that is whether it's in the opposition MPs or the Parliament, which is why you should be questioned. Look, we're not the ones who missed the audit reports, the paintings, the books, the audits, and we're not the ones who missed the control of the Court, and we're not the ones who didn't bring the one here, not me. Thus, there have been shortcomings in this matter, but this imperfection is not our fault; it is those who did not bring these Court reports here, and this is not legitimate, as we say, righteous. Plus, I said it's not just numbers. I said the budget isn't right, it's not numbers. We know the duties of the Women's Status General Directorate. The status of the woman, the equality of men and women, the prevention of violence and discrimination should be all over the social space, but when we look at the numbers and look at life, it's not like this at all, it's not like this at all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0483par0451	You're still pointing fingers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0484par0452	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0479par0453	Yes, Mr. Secretary. He said not this evening until morning. We agree, and that's what we're saying, not in the morning, but it happens with sincere policies, with a strong political will, sincerely believing. What's missing from you, for us in this process, is our assessment.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0483par0454	No one has the right to call me that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0479par0455	Plus, you know, a lot of women have been harassed in vehicles called "Akrep", stripped naked, exposed to a lot of insults, verbal rape threats. So, against these... which is your job to prevent, to protect their rights, to prevent this abuse, to prevent violence, isn't it? Or is it your job to interfere with what just happened? That's what we've been trying to say, and that's what Ali Ishmael's mother is trying to say right now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0457	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0479par0458	Otherwise, Mr. Fatma Şahin says that he has not been lawful to him, not to him, but to the person of Minister Fatma Şahin. That's the summation of the situation for me, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0461	Now, it's time to talk...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0486par0462	Mr. President, now, according to the Civil Code 60, the president may grant a short speech to the member who stated that he had a very short promise. From here, our Van MP has come from Van, and you know there's a very urgent situation that threatens life, about the expulsion of the families in the container, electricity and dehydration. Therefore, we have a very brief request for a statement from your place, both the General Assembly and the government, to inform the cabinet members.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0463	Mr. Baluken, you're reading me the 60th article, thank you, but I suggest you read the second joke of Article 60. Please consider it with your fellow lawyers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0487par0464	They can have a press conference.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0486par0465	Mr. President, look, you're always using this clause to make no promises to lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0466	No...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0486par0467	Your attitude is not correct.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0468	No, I don't do that at all. I remind you of the second joke.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0486par0469	We'd like to make a brief statement regarding the situation in Van. I'm saying it's an emergency.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0470	Now, look, in order to make a brief statement from your location, Mr. Baluken, this has to be about what we're talking about here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0488par0471	The first joke is very clear, Mr. President: No one can speak without pre-registering his name or taking the President's word during the hearing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0472	The second joke of Article 60 of the Civil Code is the commander.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0489par0473	Mr. President, would that be possible?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0474	Open up, read the second joke.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0489par0475	Now, won't you promise us if there's an earthquake this minute, if there's an emergency with that earthquake? I mean, there's no such app.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0476	Mr. Baluken, if you multiply these samples, there's nothing we can do here but promise.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0489par0477	No, we're saying it's an emergency. There's a life-threatening emergency.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0478	Let them tell the ministers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0489par0479	It's about an emergency that threatens women's lives.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0485par0480	They can tell Mr. Hawke here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0490par0481	Call a press conference.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0489par0482	Let's inform the General Assembly, sir. Why are you doing this? I mean, in an emergency, in case of disaster...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0491par0483	There is such a thing as a question-answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0492par0484	I'll give him my word on the QA, okay? Question-answer... Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0493par0486	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0494par0487	Mr. President, there's no way...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0493par0488	Mr. President, Mr. President, I'm sorry. As our Minister of Family and Social Policy made his statements, Parliament passed a law on the free use of public transportation for our disabled citizens.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0495par0489	Sir, let him ask questions. Everyone talks about pirates like that. We don't have to listen to it like this.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0493par0490	However, it has been said that the regulation on this is to be passed, that our citizens are victims because there is no regulation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0495par0491	Mr. President, please don't let him! What's he talking about? What's he talking about? It's the Civil Code! We don't have to listen to this!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0493par0492	I'd be happy if our Minister could make a statement about that as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0496par0494	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. According to what reason you speak, what clause you speak according to the procedure, then I will give you my word or not. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0497par0495	We don't have to listen to this! Enough, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0493par0496	But we did say the right thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0496par0497	I mean, this is crazy.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0497par0498	Mr. President, that's enough!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0496par0499	Please... let's read the charter well and interpret it well.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0498par0500	Sir, the Charter says in my hand, the 60th article is the subject of the day.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0496par0501	Please, I don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0498par0502	I've brought the matter to the attention of the agenda.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0496par0503	Speak according to the relevant clause of the Charter.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0498par0504	Mr. President, I mean, I'm done with this, but you're dragging it out.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0496par0505	What is this Civil Code? It's proper, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0498par0506	Look, what does the Civil Code say? ▪ It says something in the day. I said it was over, but you extended it. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Equipment Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0499par0538	Minister of Health Mehmet Muezzinoglu. Here you go, sir. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0500par0542	Honourable President, honored members of our High Council, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to present our health department's 2014 budget to the General Board. I'd like to start by thanking you, our esteemed deputies, who have been so supportive of the Health Transformation Programme for 11 years under this great roof. I would like to express our gratitude, especially to all of our health workers, especially our physicians. If our health care workers had not internalized the spirit and needs of the Transformation Programme, we could not talk about these accomplishments today. I'd like to thank our doctors, nurses, all of our health workers, and our esteemed health administrators, who bear the flag of service with great sacrifice. There's no doubt that our people deserve the greatest thanks in the process. This nation, this noble nation, has supported its service with great might, and has given us strength by standing behind us in every election. So we were able to make the big transformation happen. I thank you for the best of services and the best of them all. First, we started by saying, "Man, first, health." And we did a huge transformation. In 2002, the expected life expectancy of birth, 71.8, was 76 in 2012. The rate of infant mortality increased from 31.5/ to 7.4/ in a thousand living births, the mother's mortality rate increased from 64 to 15.4 (in 100,000 living births; overall satisfaction in health care has increased from 39.5% to 75 percent. There have been significant improvements and improvements in many other indicators. We did all this with a stable government, with a growing economy. I have to be very clear that there is no way the Ministry of Health could have done such a huge reform on its own. There's a determined government behind this, a Prime Minister who owns the issue. I'd like to thank the Ministry of Finance, Treasury, Labor and Social Security and the Grand Assembly here again. The international reflection of our achievements is the pride of our country, of all of us. See, the World Health Organization sums up our country's health condition for 2002: At the beginning of the new millennium, Turkey was at the bottom of both the OECD countries and the World Health Organization in the European region, given the performance, health results, financial protection and patient satisfaction window. In 2012, the same World Health Organization says Turkey is a successful example for countries applying the principles of health and response of the contract of Tallinn. I'd like to remind our Mexican friends of these phrases. Yes, in light of all these appreciations, we say: "No stopping, keep going!" We have prepared the World Health Organization's Tallinn Convention and the 2013-2017 strategic plan in line with health policy 2020. The World Health Organization is using these statements on this strategic plan that we're doing -- the World Health Ministry of Turkey says that its strategic plan could be an example for other member states in the European region of the World Health Organization. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to briefly tell you what we're doing with the Health Transformation Program, what we're planning to do next. Of course, I can't really describe this huge transformation program that we're running in this limited time period. I'd like to make a brief statement to your grand delegation that we've strengthened primary health care, particularly foster health care and child health care. The budget for protective and basic health care in 2013 was $7.4 billion, raising that figure by 13 per cent to 8.3 billion TL. We added the world's most advanced vaccines to the inoculation program. We offer inoculation services completely free of charge. We're continuing high inoculation rates. We've expanded and strengthened mother and baby health care. In 2002, prenatal care was 70 per cent, and in 2012 we reached 97 per cent. The birth rate in hospitals has reached 97 per cent of the 69 per cent today. The baby-watching rate reached 99% of the 62 per cent. The number of baby-friendly hospitals increased from 141 to 962. We've expanded and expanded new-born screening programs across the country. In this context, we're promoting congenital hip dislocation screening programs. We're also starting the hearing screening at school-age kids. We're running visual scans on pre-school kids for break-in defects. We're expanding protective mouth and dental care. We offer the services of the mother hotel with 600 beds at 85 medical facilities in 55 counties. We've strengthened health care through family medicine in the first place. Our number of family physicians reached 21.200 today. We aim to reduce the family doctor's population to less than 3,000 by 2017. We're starting special periodic examinations of family medicine. Dear friends, we've implemented comprehensive programmes to protect health. In this scope, we have implemented national programmes for certain diseases, including heart vascular disease, cancer, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease. In particular, we've traveled considerable distances in the fight against tobacco. According to the World Health Organization's international assessment criteria, we became the leading country in this area with the highest practice points in the fight against smoking in 2012. We run and develop all these programs integrated into what we call health development and encouragement. You know, we've established a general managership to run this area under the Law of 663. Hopefully, with this new structure, we will have effective results in our fight against other non-communicable diseases, particularly the epidemic. We continue to practice home health care. We do home care and rehabilitation for bed-addicted patients at home. In the first nine months of 2013, we reached 346 thousand people. We serve everyone in need. We've developed and run the Multi- Sector Health Responsibility Programme with the understanding and understanding of the entire state. We work with all sectors. In short, our treatment services were available to a physician per capita 2.2 in 2002, while in 2012 he went up to 8.2. In 2002, we moved our qualified bed rate from 61% to 34 percent in 2012. Our goal is to move this rate to over 90 percent by the end of 2017. We also raised our number of intensive care beds -- 869 in 2002 -- to 11.130. We're increasing the capacity of our hospitals to use medical technology as well as to assess quality and security. In 2013, we inspected 314 radiologists and 301 hospitals with MR, BT, mammographics, 188 cardiologists, and 188 hospitals with coronary angiography. You know, one of the most important health issues in our country is transplants. We've created the new National Organ Transplant Information System, which includes organ transplants across the country and patient information waiting for organs. In this way, our number of transplants -- 745 in 2002 -- took place in the 4,196 · Global Voices in 2013. Here, of course, about the organ donation, in the coming period, first of all, we have important responsibilities in a new campaign for you and our fellow members of the High Council and all of the public, and I would like to say that we expect all of your support in this sense. We've expanded the central hospital appointment system throughout Turkey. We've arranged for our citizens to make a phone call through Call Center 182. It's about the pay-per-view of the phones, and hopefully, we're conducting a work that doesn't exceed $1 on a phone date, and we'll get it done as soon as possible. But here's another thing: Internet appointments are free. Therefore, I would like to express here that all of our patients who use telephones know that they can make free online appointments. We're doing an average of 225 thousand operations per day. By making an appointment, we aim to move the rate of examination to 65 percent in 2014 in 45 percent. In all the hospitals in our ministry, we've established a department of patient rights, and we've brought the right to choose. We've cheapened the drug prices. We've set up a pharmaceutical tracking system all over the world that's getting a lot of appreciation. This system is the first common practice that can be used and monitored by a square code. As it is known, the square code is the fingerprint of the drug, and by using the programs that we're going to give to our phones -- God willing -- in 2014, our patients are going to be the first people in the world to read the square code of the drug they bought themselves, whether it was registered, whether it was allowed to follow it, or if it was followed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0501par0559	I hope...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0500par0560	Of course, you can take your word for thank you - no hard feelings here. We put the prescription information system to sleep. We've prepared the National Action Plan for Mental Medicine 2013-2017. We began to try to establish the production, product tracking system to provide access to the secure product and to market medical equipment and cosmetic products that were produced or imported in our country as part of the fight against the off-the-book economy. Dear MPs, my dear friends, we have begun to offer 112 emergency services not only in cities but also in villages. We've increased the number of stations and equipped our ambulances with the latest technology. We've added air and sea ambulances to the system, and we'll continue to add. See, in 2013 alone, our new number of ambulances included in our national ambulance fleet is 710. In 2002, Turkey's total number of ambulances was 634. We offered 710 new ambulances to Turkey's health care in 2013 alone. We formed the largest medical rescue team in Europe. In our 81 counties, we have raised 5,367 trained medical staff. These teams have participated in rescue operations that have raised our hearts in the country and abroad. In 2002, we increased the number of employees with 256,000, including service purchase, to 516 thousand in 2013, so we have a clear increase of 260,000 people. We've narrowed down the difference between an expert physician, a practitioner, a dentist, a nurse, and the province with the least number of populations per midwife from 13 to 3. So we've established the infrastructure of rightful transportation. We've made great progress in health investments. Between 2003-2012, we completed 2,132 health facilities, including 610 (a hospital and an additional building), 1,522 (a primary health institution). I believe city hospitals will serve an important vision, especially of our country being a health centre in the region. Dear lawmakers, my dear friends, the GDP rate was 3.8 in 2002, while in 2012 it was only 4.1 per cent. I'm going to give you what we've come up with here, and I'd like to give you two digits to pay attention. At the same time, you spend a lot of money in health. It is a simple answer to your thesis. In 2012, public health spending per capita was 753 buying power parity / dollars, while in OECD countries, that was 25 years ago -- 739 purchasing power parity / dollar in 1987. These figures also show how accurate the financial efficiency of health care we offer is, how high it is. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing here. Contrary to claims, the percentage of pocket health expenditures has also declined. Look, what do the latest figures that TÜİKbook explained say? Without comment, I'd like to share with you: the total health expenditure in the pocket is 19.8 per cent in 2002, which is 20 per cent in 2012, at 15.4 per cent in 2012, 15.5 per cent. Dear friends, at the end of my speech, I'd like to briefly discuss our goals next semester. We'll continue our work day and night. We'll continue by sailing to a much wider horizon, which will spend our strength, excitement, and energy on our nation. We've started the Ship Hospital Project. We've granted tax exemption to health-tourism revenues, and we've allowed health care to run and run housing facilities. We'll increase health promotions next semester. We've cleared the way for the establishment of free health zones in our country, but here in particular, Turkey's Root Cell Coordination Center will serve our country in March 2014, in April 2014, hopefully. It's the end of time. We're improving clinical quality standards. We do clinical evaluations on many subjects such as diabetes, pregnancy, birth, dental prosthetics, hip prosthetics, coronary heart disease. Our greatest honor is to serve our beloved nation. We take pride in it, we take our strength from both the games and the prayers of our nation. It is sufficient for us that these people should pray to Us and say, "God bless us" once, and we do not ask for anything else. I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0502par0575	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan is now acting on behalf of him. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0503par0580	Mr. President, I salute your esteemed deputies, your grand delegation, and the arrested MPs who are still inside. The Justice and Development Party's Government says it has spent the Change in Health Programme to choose the doctor it wants to have a cheaper and easier access to, and the hospital it wants. What did we say? The system that eliminates trust between a patient and a doctor, which is based on performance, is actually marketing health that is a public right, privatizing it, and the day came, and we said, "You'll be blocked in this," and you didn't listen to us. Look, Mr. Secretary, I've listened to you very carefully, and I'd like to share with you the same numbers that you gave me, with the data provided by the Director General of Health Research. And when you're sharing, almost all of you are taking this stand, and you're using 2002 as a nation, and I want to use 2002 as a means to share it with you. The year 2002, total number of hospitals in Turkey is 1,150, 250 of which are private hospitals. It's 2012, total number of hospitals is 1,480, 580/5. So the number of private hospitals in Turkey increased by 120 per cent; 2.5 per cent during the period of your administration. In 2002, the total number of beds in Turkey was 165,000, 12,000 in private hospitals. It's 2012, we have 200,000 beds, 36,000 in private hospitals. So, the increase in the number of beds in private hospitals is 300 percent during the period of your administration, Minister. It's not over, but let me remind you: In 2002, 124 million patients applied to hospitals, 5 million of them applied to private hospitals. The year 2012, the number of patients applying to hospitals has increased by 12 times as many as 355 million, 67 million from private hospitals, which means the number of patients applying to private hospitals during the period of your administration has increased, Mr. Minister. I want to give you another example: In 2002, a total of 5,500,000 patients were admitted to hospitals in Turkey, 500,000 of which were in private hospitals. In 2012, the number of patients lying in our hospitals increased by seven times as many as 12 million, 3.5 million in private hospitals during the age of the government. I can tell you the same in the numbers of surgeries. Why am I saying this, dear lawmakers? Now, when you came to power, your health care budget was like 10 billion Turkish liras. This cake has now reached a number of 50 billion to 60 billion. Where did you give it? You put it in private instead of public investments, and you marketed it. You want a number, I'll give you a number: 500 million liras is what SGK paid for private hospitals in 2002. The year 2012, the money paid by the SGK to private hospitals increased by 8-9 billion Turkish liras, or 20 times higher. The point you've brought is that with the Health Transformation Programme, your practices are no longer a right to health, you are no longer a public service, you've brought the money to an area where the person who has the money can be served. You're either going to the door of a public-private partnership company or you're getting a contribution out of a citizen's pocket. Minister, I listened to you. With your numbers, I'll give you a number. Public health expenditure per person is $750 per person in Turkey. Again, in these statistics, the total cost of health per person is $980. The difference is $230. Who makes the difference? You were taking it out of a citizen's pocket. What's the number? That's 24 percent. I thought you were going to give the public a cheaper service, not specialization with the Health Transformation Program. No. Let me give you a similar example: you went to international financial institutions especially when you were blocked at the economic point. There's a strange thing called public-special partnership -- I can't identify -- what do you say to people? Come on, I'll pay for the land, I'll pay for the production, I'll pay for the service, I'll pay for the rent, even 70 percent of the beds, just get the hospital started in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is called privatisation, isn't it? One day, when the health of this community goes bad, you won't be able to handle it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0504par0588	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the tenth round are complete. We'll proceed with the question-answer process in a moment.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0505par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0504par0592	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0505par0593	Before we go into question-answering, we'll have an urgent request for a statement based on the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0504par0594	Yeah, I said I'd promise you that. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0506par0598	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been experiencing a human tragedy in Van. It's been going on for about three years. Thousands of families have been sheltered somewhere by their own means. Of course, it doesn't mean that the state is fulfilling its social responsibilities, but they already live with their children in the cold, reaching 111 families -20. They are disabled, disabled, and in need of care in a container with their elderly. The governor said the power will be turned on today, so we're hoping they'll never lose power. They've been out of power for three months, those families have disabled children, there's psychological issues, and what's to be done to protect these families that are responsible for both the Ministry of Health and the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0504par0599	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Now, we'll begin the question-answer process.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0507par0601	Let the city take a look...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0508par0602	Let the city take care of you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0509par0603	I want to answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0510par0604	You made a promise? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0509par0607	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. This is in our close-up. Van is a business we run with our governor.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0511par0609	When you're picking up your trash...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0509par0610	Congressman, I'm responding.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0511par0611	Madam Secretary, this always happens to us.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0612	Mr. Threeer...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0511par0613	There's a bunch of people saying, "Don't fucking talk while we're talking."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0513par0614	Okay, I'm answering.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0615	Mr. Threeer, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0511par0616	...there's been other bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0617	Mr. Threeer, please... the Minister is making a statement. Please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0514par0619	Now, let's give support to our families in 150 dwellings, and let's get you out of there. Even though it's been said, if you give us a house, we'll get out of there. 75 families later accepted rent aid, got out of the container, and 75 families continue to stay in the container because they refused to accept rent allowance. We, at the moment, have instructed our governor to do whatever these families need -- that's how we've been instructed -- we're in a position to fund social services. And next week, our fund board is meeting. We said that whatever they needed, we'd give them all the help we could to satisfy that need, that we'd give positive discrimination to our families from both jobs and conditional cash transfers. So, if there's a problem here, we can all go together and manage it together. A woman there, a child, a family cold means we're cold. We need to solve this problem without being stubborn.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0621	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0515par0622	Mr. Secretary, if you promise a dwelling...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0516par0623	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0624	Mr. Special...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0516par0625	Mr. President, our Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Mehdi Eker, has just stated that during an argument, he did not leave any questions asked him unanswered during his ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0626	Okay, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0516par0627	Whereas the 24th term...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0628	Ask him in question-answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0516par0629	No...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0512par0630	There's no such procedure. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0516par0631	During the third and fourth years of the 24th century, he did not answer 30 questions. I'd like it to go into the records. [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Equipment Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0517par0663	Congressmans, we're starting a 20-minute question-and-answer process. The questions will be asked in ten minutes, and the ministers will answer in ten minutes. Mr. Belen, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0518par0665	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the Minister of Health: Two days ago, there was a headline in the newspapers, the confession of Yalçın Akdoğan, his brother-in-law: If I speak, the government will fall. I paid $100,000 in bribes to Mohammad Egypt, director of Health Investments. He said Oktay Fershat had submitted the bribery file to Erdoğan and threatened to speak if he didn't respond... and the claims of Fershat were not limited to that. Fershat also argued that the Minister of Health sponsored the electoral zone. Fershat said he made a 40m-dollar commitment within this scope, saying he was forced to sponsor election areas. Is it also true that when you took office in your Ministry, Hasan Yüksel, your brother-in-law, Vera Construction, has been pressuring contractors from your Ministry to supply supplies? I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture: the sunflower maker in Thrace is miserable. Your unit, which is 24 cents...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0519par0670	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0520par0671	Mr. President, thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. My first question is: how many staffs have been asked for by the Ministry of Agriculture to evaluate this ongoing question for agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, food engineers, water products engineers and technicians -- were 6,557 staff asked for from Finance, and how many staff were given? Parents are waiting for an answer, and we're getting messages all the time. We expect an answer today. Two: Will it or will it not continue during 2014 to support 200 kilos and higher cows that continue until 31/12/2013? We're waiting for an answer on that, too. This is a good practice, and we want it to continue because it prevents female cuts. Without Ana, there is no calf. I want to remind you of that. We expect an answer today. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0521par0676	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0522par0677	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to point out to the government that I was in Sanliurfa yesterday, and, in fact, the electricity blackouts are killing the citizens. The power goes out for ten to twelve hours a day. In the neighborhoods, in the villages, citizens are rioting. So I've been asked to bring it up. Also, the day I was found, unfortunately, we had to open a candlelit business. So these power cuts are a very important problem in Şanliurfa. There must be immediate steps to resolve this. Also, we've been called from Mardin, we're wanted from Dargateit, there's a serious power cut. On the other hand, to the Minister of Agriculture: What relationship did your Ministry or you have with the Jordanian company Hicazi? And Mr. Secretary, you're running for mayor, there's been a few other ministers. They did not resign after their budgets were discussed. Do you plan to resign from the ministry and teach them a lesson after this budget has been discussed? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0523par0682	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0524par0683	I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture: Our Yozgat MP Sadri Bey asks that the Yozgat farmer will receive a bonus, while I'm asking when the Adana farmer will receive a bonus. And my second question is, which company, Mr. Secretary, has received the kara code application in this kara code application? There's talk of an additional $1 billion. Has there been a bid for this? How many firms have been involved? What are the properties of the winning firm? Is there another example of this practice in the world? Does the owner of this firm have a private plane? If so, how many times did you fly this private plane as Minister, why did you fly it? Who is the owner of this company, Veriso Data? We'd appreciate it if you'd give us this information.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0523par0685	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0525par0686	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Family and Social Policy: Mr. Minister, there was a construction by the Turkish-German Foundation in Turkey in 2001 in terms of loving houses and children's homes. The goal is to make sure that the children who were orphaned in the earthquake are sheltered, to take care of them. The goal is to create a good psychological and educational space for children in need of protection in the future, but recently we are faced with a situation like a boys' home, where, in the recent papers, the authority in the Kopeli will tear down this villa-style structure to turn it into a men's home. On the one hand, do you have any idea why such love houses in the style of villas were made in many areas of Turkey?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0526par0689	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0527par0690	Thank you, Mr. President. We're wondering when the loss of rights of the staff assigned to the Department of Health will improve. There's also a norm staff-like app for private hospitals and medical centers. This practice has led to a huge amount of money for those who took the norm staff in their day. Numbers reaching up to $1 million, such as commercial taxi license plates, are being handed over to staffs. Who are these men who are free of charge in their time, and how many staffs have been committed? Money earned in these times is not possible to be taxed on unfair gains. Are you following me or following me? I'm asking Mr. Fatma Sahin: Sir, according to 2002, it has been said that social benefits have increased from 1 billion to 376 million dollars to 20 billion dollars, which is 15 times higher. Is this a sign of poverty or a sign of enrichment? On the other hand, on the other hand, we helped 150,000 men who could work in March. Is this 150,000 people so they can vote for you in the election?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0528par0694	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0529par0695	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, you say everything's a rose, but the peasant owes it to the throat. And his debt continues to grow. At the moment, our farmers can't sell their oranges for 25 cents. How long will the farmer use the world's most expensive diesel, fertilizer, medicine, and how long will our farmers continue to sell the oranges, lemons, tomatoes that he has used with expensive entries? And how many water products engineers, food engineers, veterinarians, unemployed agricultural engineers are you going to employ this year, are you going to give them some business news? Mr. Minister of Health, during the AKP's rule, you punished Mugla for health investments. During your reign, you did not build a hospital for Mughlah. Even if you start building a research hospital today, he'll be graduating from Mughla University Medical School before you finish the hospital. Will it be your fault for the mistakes of young people who are doctors without internships in a research hospital, or will it be ours? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0530par0699	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0531par0700	Mr. President, thank you. My question to the Minister of Health: Adana has a sample hospital, and there's a State Hospital, and now, of course, it's a community hospital union. A couple of years ago, there were interrogations, arrests on corruption through bureaucrats, politicians, businessmen at this Adana Numune Hospital. Any of these arrests, any of these interrogations, are they being punished, are the arrests still going on? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0532par0703	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0533par0704	Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petty Minister Mehdi Eker announced that there will be appointments in 2013 for the Ministry of Finance and the State Staff for employment of 2,500 food engineers in several television programmes he attended since February. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek stated that there was no application for this on the social networking site, but in the motion I submitted, he stated that there was an application of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, that the procedure would be completed and then these appointments would be made. About eight months ago, we submitted the Minister's application. How did this procedure still not end? It's the end of 2013, the last month; the minister is still going to be appointed in the year 2013. Will these appointments be held within the month, Mr. Secretary, or will you be on television again and continue to tell the same tale? My second question: what are the imports and exports in agriculture and food? I'm specifically asking about imports. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0534par0707	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0535par0708	My first question to Mr. Health Minister: Mr. Minister, we are a country that consumes nearly 27 boxes of medicine per person by spending 2 billion boxes of drugs in Turkey, but not even a very simple drug in our country, but by the way, it's been written in American newspapers for two years now that we're a false drug base. What do you intend to do or do to not be a minister to history through their anecdotes? My second question to Mr. Şahin is: Mr. Hawk, we'd like to know what the situation is about the distribution of priced military money to the families of the martyrs. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0536par0711	Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0537par0712	Mr. Minister of Agriculture, mine is a demand: 1,200 acres of land in Kınuk district of İzmirin has been operated for three years, under the leadership of co-ops and subservients, opened wells, had been opened, had been built, had been bought, and had been able to operate this cooperative land, allowing the villagers to farm better opportunities. This was finally leased to a private company under a tender from the Treasury Department, and the court is under way. I'd like you to address this problem with the Treasury Department on behalf of the Colonic villagers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0536par0713	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0715	Yes, first of all, thank you, Mr. Belen. Of course, slandering is easy, it's easy to speak without documents, but of course, we're the state of law. As a person and as a person, I would like to state that we have begun the legal work necessary to press charges against the state's prosecutors and to seek all my material moral rights through legal means. But friends, there are so many inconsistencies. I sold my car, cashed it in gold, paid $100,000, but I sponsored the minister's election area for 40 million. So the job is 40 million sponsors, but let me be clear: I've been doing politics for twenty-one years; I've done my own political sponsorship, thank God, by my own means, until now; no one with a conscience can come and say that I've given these three coins.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0539par0718	Didn't he offer, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0719	The word to the mufters is that if they can't prove it, they have to prove it. In that sense, Mr. Muhammad will seek the legal rights of Egypt, to press charges against the state's attorney and to the press broadcaster as well as those who have made this claim. I also want to thank you for the question in that sense. In that sense, our heads are high, our foreheads are open. And what doesn't, is now in the position of a mufter. Mr. Turkoglu, about the rights to researchers, it's likely that in 15 to 20 days...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0539par0721	You didn't say anything about Hasan Yüksel, Mr. Secretary. Vera Construction.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0722	I never admit that any of our bureaucrats could do such a thing right now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0539par0723	Look into it, Minister. That's a claim.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0724	If he is, he'll do the research, and whatever his criminal obligation is... friends, if we're going to be the state of law, everyone will protect and honor the office. Hopefully, we'll give you the information in that sense as well, but I, Hasan Yüksel, came on that mission 15 days ago, if I'm not mistaken.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0539par0725	He used to be the vice-president of the apartment.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0726	If he did that in 15 days...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0539par0727	No, Mr. Secretary, he used to be the vice-president of the apartment.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0728	Now, Mr. Turkoglu, we've been talking a lot about researchers for 15 days, waiting for bag law. Hopefully, in one ten or fifteen days, if this year's end, the great House can complete the law, we'll be able to eliminate the victims of our investigators' rights. About Norm's turnovers, friends, it's not true, and from now on, we're ending the sale of a cast like a commercial meta by the end of the year. In that sense, the regulations...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0540par0730	The man who took the money has taken it away, Minister. Who are they?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0538par0731	Friends, his list has been published legally, and 75 million of our citizens have been announced in this sense. Who used this? We'll look into it, and I can give it to you. I think I can move on with the time...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0541par0733	You have six minutes. You can share three or three, my ministers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0735	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I would like to answer Mr. Vural's question. As everyone knows right now, I'm running for mayor. I've answered that in Plan Budget before. We didn't take power from the authorities, we don't need these authorities because we're servants of the nation, servants of our countrymen. But the campaign hasn't started yet. The Republican People's Party's Gaziantep candidate is still unknown. We've never been in this campaign process.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0543par0736	Three ministers have gone to introduce you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0737	Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Vice Prime Minister, our government spokesman, said that despite the Supreme Election Board's decision, we will enter the new year here with the new minister. Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0544par0738	I think it's best if you leave after the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0739	We never took our power from the Throne. With our hard work, we were in this area with our heart. We'll continue to be in this area. I'd like to answer Mr. Kaplan's question, there's absolutely no destruction of the men's home, there's this transformation we're talking about. So there's a system called smaller lovehouses, children's homes. There will never be any destruction there. If there's a misunderstanding about that, we'll fix it. I want to answer Mr. Turkoglu's question: Now, being a social state means making social transfers stronger and poverty means taking the absolute poverty limit up. Therefore, our further financial support does not mean that this country is becoming poor, it means that we are doing the need for social and social peace. If you look at it that way, the Scandinavian countries should be the poorest countries today. Such a criterion is not the right criteria. That's why we...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0545par0742	The number of poor people who have been given help has increased...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0743	Yeah, we're gonna keep up that number.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0545par0744	Why the increase in numbers, the increase in numbers?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0745	The increase in numbers, that's right...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0545par0746	The number of people in need of help has increased...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0747	You're right, we're already being scientific, we're working with TUBITAK. I'd like to answer Mr. Demirel's question: So far, in the latest case of military service, $2 billion,255 million has been provided, and 585 million 396,940 dollars have been spent. All of this is under the regulations that we've drawn up with the Treasury Department, and we're continuing our work, especially in order to go to the families of the last-needed soldiers, to the families of 58,6,000, 60,000 needy soldiers. We transfer from this source to the disabled. So we're doing everything the law requires.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0545par0749	The families of the martyrs...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0546par0750	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0751	And to them...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0545par0752	The martyr's father called.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0542par0753	Yeah, yeah, we're giving it to them, too. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0547par0755	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, thank you. The question of Mr. Özkan is about the staff. In fact, our other deputies have questions for that effect. In 2002, the total number of technical staff in the Ministry of Agriculture was 9.240. We've got 17.632 technical staff, these are agricultural engineers and vets. There's a 175 percent increase in proportion. This year, a total of 4,087 received in 2013. In the first month of the year, 2,600 were taken in 2013, and 1,002 of 1,487 were taken within the year. As of December 20th, 467 contract personnel will be taken. These are mostly agricultural engineers, veterinarians, food engineers, water products engineers. Of course, our Ministry has demands, according to more norm staff, we're making demands. Six thousand contract positions have been requested for this 2014. As part of budget opportunities, we will continue these purchases in 2014 as part of the finance ministry's staff. The second question of Mr. Ozkan is specifically regarding the nutrient material, whether the support for over 200 kilograms of animals will continue. As long as the amount is finalized later, I'd say that right now, in principle, the feeders will be given this support in 2014, and I'll make it very clear. Again, the question of Mr. Yilmaz is that there is still no waiting bonus payment for Yozgat and Adana. I mean, it's been said like there's a bonus payment, there's no waiting payment. If some payments are blocked -- such as prosecutorial or sometimes under investigation -- we pay for them when they come from the provinces in the blocks. We have money, so we don't have any problems. In regards to the production of oranges...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0548par0761	There's a carcoid, Mr. Secretary, and my second question is, karacode, square code. He's coming, too, so be patient. Second question, second question. The production of Turunçgil, valued lawmakers, rose from 2,493,000 tons to 3,600,000 tonnes, to that level. So... Who got this contract? Why aren't you answering? Wait a minute, or we'll give it to you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0549par0767	The clock is ticking, Mr. Lawmakers, please. Don't worry, we'll answer. It's not what you think, it's not what you're implying, it's all clear. It's clear, it's clear, it's clear.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0548par0769	It's obvious who took it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0549par0770	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0550par0771	Sir, Mr. Secretary hasn't answered any questions. So we're doing a budget audit here. So, Mr. Secretary, there's no such thing as what you understand. I mean, if not, we asked him about the Hicazi firm, and he didn't answer. I'll give it to you in writing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0551par0773	He's making a fuss.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0552par0774	This is not our way, Mr. Vural, this is not our way at the moment. Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the transfer of the budgets in the tenth round, respectively: I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 30) GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 135,330,990 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 13.925,789,110 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 3.250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 106,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 42,817,900 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 13.117,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 14.230.405,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014 The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 11.260.613.914.00 Budget Expenses 11.144.430.574.45 Emancipation Expenses 1,023,927,25 Canceled Fund 117.207.266.80 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency will take part in the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.09) STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 24.865,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 48,735,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 73,600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 69,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,060.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 73,600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred to the chapters of the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 59,770,000.00 Budget Expenses 58,344.084,48 Canceled Fund 1,425,915,52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 49,770,000.00 Net Collection 58,344,084,48 Ret and Returns 196,596,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0553par0852	More those who don't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0554par0853	Mr. President, there is no doubt a majority, but those who agree. You say five fingers up, those who don't agree. You say 40 fingers up.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0553par0854	Ask for the records.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit04spe0555par0855	Watch out. We'd like to ask the MPs. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2014... Those who don't... Sustained. 24) THE FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICY 1) Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 290.164.700 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 77,599.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 16,657,043,300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 17.024.807,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy for Central Management in 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 11.390.024.420.90 Budget Expenses 11.348.905.463.00 The grant goes to 26.602,50 Canceled allowance 40,416,932,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 728,628,03 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the health department's budget for 2014 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 61,958,000 All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.212,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. 07 Health Services 2.463.423,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,529,593,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the Department of Health's final account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 6.839.821.314.69 Budget Expenses 4,789.362.998,14 The grant goes 50,357,464,72 Canceled grant 2,100,815,781,27 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1.792.013.117.52 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the 2014 budget of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate: those who agree... those who don't accept... are accepted. 40.19) TECHNICAN HUDUT AND AGREEMENT 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.029,000 All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 21,000 All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.806,000 All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. 07 Health Services 117.138,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 128.994,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. [[TL]] 01 Tax revenues 162,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 645,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6.590.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 169.235,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts, in 2012, the final account of central management, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 264.118.938.00 Budget Expenses 139,658,173,06 Canceled Fund 124.460.764.94 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 24,524,124.05 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 158,500,000.00 Net Collection 199.670.336.29 Ret and Returns (-) 68,213,65 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Board of Health of Turkey's Borders and Coasts of Health has been adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Medicine and Medical Devices shall take part in the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.59) TÜRKEY MEDICINE AND TİBBI TERRIBLE PRODUCTION 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 27,006,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 463,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 57,890.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 85,359.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 67,603,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 15,056,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 85,359000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Parts of the central management budget of 2014 were adopted by Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Association. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Medicine and Medical Devices' final account of the central administration of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Association Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 40,389,275,20 Budget Expenses 28.621,497,85 Canceled Fund 11.767.777.35 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Net Collection 92,525,804,66 Ret and Returns (-) 236.080,56 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2012 were adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 15.75) THE BUILDING OF TURKEY CAMU HOSTELS 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 25.929.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,165,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 9,001,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 9.028.894,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2014 were adopted by the Turkish Public Hospital institution. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 5.154,154,644,71 Budget Expenses 5,189,316,290,69 Compensation Expenses 52,843,795,73 Canceled allowance 17.533.505.04 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 148,644,71 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Public Hospitals Association has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Health Institution will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 15.76) BUILDING OF THE PEOPLE OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 100,914,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 6,773,517,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gen. TOPLAM 6,874,431.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2014 were adopted by the Turkish Public Health Institution. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Health Institution shall be transferred into the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 4.462.820.870.84 Budget Expenses 4,348,536,257,98 The grant goes to 10,793,548,76 Canceled Grant 125,078,161,62 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 114,246,342,82 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Public Health Institution was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. So food, Agriculture and Agriculture Ministry, Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Turkey's Ministry of Health, General Health of Borders and Coasts, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Medicine Agency, Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution and Turkey's Public Health Institution's central management budgets in 2014 and the final accounts of central management management in 2012. I wish him well. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0555par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. We will now begin the eleventh round of interviews. The 11th round includes the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the President of the Small and Medium-Size Business Development and Support Administration, the Institute of Turkish Standards, the Turkish Patent Institute, the Institute of Scientific and Technological Research, Turkey Academy of Sciences, the National Defence Ministry, the budget and final accounts. [[Continue]] ÜNMI, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY BANK 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Ministry of Defence 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2012 Central Management Final Account Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the 11th round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals: In the name of the Republican People's Party Group: Mehmet Ali Sesam, Hasan Ören, Kemal Değirmendereli, Binnaz Ayoğlu, Mustafa Moroğlu, Orhan Seçı; Lütfu Türkkan, Celal Adan, Ahmet Duran Bulut, Koray Aydın; Elaşiye Birtane for Peace and Democracy Party; Özdal Trier, Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Sır Sakık; Abdullah Nejat Koker for Justice and Development Party; Dilek, Ömer Faruk Öz, Zeki Aygün, Halil Mazcıoğlu, Şal Masılı, Nurdan, Şallı, Şaşlı, Şaşcı, Şağurcı, Şaş, Şağurcı, Şaş. In the name of his people: Poland, and Aaron Karaca; and against him, Mustafa Kalaycı. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0556par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have a pledge on behalf of my group in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I wish you all good luck with this budget, our country, our industry. Industry, science and technology are a very important thing, given the combination. In the age of knowledge and technology, we all care that industry can go further. At this point, I'd like to say a greeting to our industrialists from here, as the Republican People's Party. The industrialist is a public servant. Now, we look at the industry and industry as a special sacrifice, beyond their own needs, beyond their own needs, beyond their own needs, beyond their own needs, beyond their own needs for the welfare and happiness of this country. In that sense, we respect the figures and the results that have been achieved by the industry's efforts so far, and we salute our industrialists. However, despite the efforts of our industrialists, I believe that the Turkish industry should be reevaluated today. And while I'm doing that in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, I'm going to try to make sure that I don't speak that way by acting on scientific data. First of all, I'd like to highlight a perception that the Justice and Development Party has a sense of society in its eleven-year period of power. That perception: during the Justice and Development Party, Turkey is very grown and very advanced. This perception is not true, I say by number: The growth rate in the eleven-year period of power is 4.8. Before the Justice and Development Party of Turkey, the average growth rate between 1946-2002 is 5.1. In this sense, the growth rate of the Justice and Development Party is not correct. At the same time, the growth rate of the developing countries over the past 11 years is 6.4. I mean, the countries we're competing for, which are developing in the face of Turkey's growth figure, have been ahead of us. So why is that, let's look at the infrastructure of this. Turkey has melted its industrial base in its eleven-year period of power. In 98, the share of the industry is 35.5 per cent and 28 per cent today. So there's negative 8 points, and in developing countries like us, there's no negative points in any of the developing countries. The quality of production has been corrupted, the import of interim goods has come forward. In 2002, an import of $27 worth of goods must be made, but today, 43 dollars in between imports must be made. The economic policy of the Justice and Development Party is producing a current and making production dependent on imports. Why? Low currency brings in because we're a country with the most expensive energy costs of OECD (OECD), because taxes and indirect taxes reflect very important burdens on industry; production is due to difficult practices and taxes on minimum wage. Imports of interim goods within GDP were 10 per cent before the Justice and Development Party arrived in 2002, and is now up to 16 per cent. Where are we in the world's production league? In 1990, Turkey was ranked 13th in the World Production League, and in 2000 it was ranked 15th in the year 2000. Now, in 2013, this 15th fell off the charts. In the first 15 productions, it's a major league, which means the cluster has fallen into the minor league. We became a logistical base of Far East as Turkey. We've come to a country that exports it by importing it, editing it. These numbers and evaluations I'm giving are not just my evaluations. I'd like to share an assessment of that with you. The last growth and current numbers are structural, he says. It says we can't produce enough raw materials and intermediaries. Our exports have become dependent on imports, 82% dependant, he says. Our guidance system does not function rationally. It is necessary for our country to become an economy of knowledge without delay, he says. And it says that we need to return to a qualified educational system. Says who? Mr. President says it's in the opening statement of the House in 2011. Dear friends, growing up is not a stable growth. Growth, which was 9.2 a year ago, can fall to minuses the following year, and there is a serious instability in growth. Regarding the latest growth figures, the ministers said: "We have grown four-quarters. We enjoy growing four-quarters, we are happy to grow four-quarters; if our industry is growing, we are happy with it. But where did the growth come from when we went back to the subdivisions of growth? When we look at it, the total growth of four quarters has come from the service sector, and the share of the industry is 1.1. In the service sector, the banking and financial sector contributed the most to growth by 1.3%. So it's not industry in growth, it's the service sector -- it's the time you put tourism in the third quarter of growth -- and it's the financial sector. Our growth demonstrates not in a high-tech industrialization policy, but in a form of growth based on the service sector and based on finance. Therefore, the quality of our export is not quality. Look, guys, when Turkey exports 1 kilogram, it makes $1.46. South Korea makes $3, Japan makes $3.5, Germany makes $4.1. I mean, we're at the point where we're moving industry to the point of producing heavy loads, price, price, light products that are high-tech movers without high-tech technology. I don't underestimate this industry, but it's unacceptable for this industry to be at this point in a country that competes in the age of technology and aims to enter the top 10 economies in 2023. We need to value science and technology in that sense. To do so, we need to improve the quality of education, promote the quality of education. Among the 65 countries in the international PISA assessment, Turkey is the 44th in mathematics, the 43rd in science, the 42nd in reading. When we go to industry and talk to them as a real industry in all of these burdens, look, our industry is trying to get a variety of support. One minister says the Ministry of Industry is doing its best. When we say what's the situation, I also want to highlight this: I've read and evaluated all the data, all the work of our Ministry of Industry, and there's always designs and certain investments in the future. But I'd like to point out that the economy is at a point where the Ministry of Industry does not allow the vision. In that sense, I would like to share with you once again, very clearly, that the Ministry of Industry should support education, science and technology. My dear friends, we were at the Presidential Mansion giving away the TÜBITAK science awards, including the last Minister. A scientist from Ankara University has made it very clear that in scientific studies, we are going backwards while everyone is going to Mersin. We don't have the chance to move scientific studies forward in colleges. We live in an environment where scientists are not encouraged. He did so at a ceremony where he received a reward. To do that, we need to have an industrialization policy that prioritizes science and education. With these feelings, I salute you all, and wish you good fortune and good fortune in the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0557par0059	Thank you. Second speaker Hasan Ören, Manisa MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0558par0063	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. My respects to all of you. Mr. Finance Minister said in his budget opening address that this budget was prepared with the sensitivity of Lord Ali. Either our Minister doesn't know how sensitive Ali is, or he hasn't looked at this budget. We see together that this budget is prepared with an understanding that does not contain workers, does not have pensioners, does not have relations with the villagers, does not have relations with the farmer, does not have a bankruptcy with the SME, and delivers the industrialist into the hands of a handful of people. In fact, as this budget is being drawn up, it doesn't take much intelligence to see and understand that the Prime Minister has had a budget of his own, which he's been feeding for two years, prepared for his own interest lobby. If eight of the 10 companies that make a great profit in the country today are banks, it is necessary to think here. If credit card interest is 24 per cent in a country with 7 per cent inflation, it is necessary to see who the budget is prepared for. Of course, that's one side of it, but on the second side, you can't really understand the Prime Minister. He has made another 60 percent of this country. We see the Prime Minister, who is delighted with the other, who is constantly harboring hatred and hatred, has passed on his hatred and hatred to lawmakers and ministers. It is hard not to be upset when you look at the speech of yesterday's government spokesman Huseyin Çelik. It's obvious what we say about the people we lost, the people who lost their lives. We say, "God bless you." We say, "May your place be paradise." We offer our condolences to your relatives, our patience, because that's what our understanding of religion, our religious understanding requires. But as the Government Speaker said, he left without account for what he had done. It's not for you, nor is it possible to understand that there's such an environment for you to take out your hatred and hatred. So, where does it come from, what's this grudge and revenge? Why is such a style chosen in Turkey? Am I having trouble understanding that tone? No, I'm not, because it's the style of Erdogan who feeds on hatred and hatred. Look, two months back. Two months ago in this country, without asking anyone, without arguing in this great Parliament, the T.C. had been removed from Turkey, and our oaths were not read. Seeing the AKP's votes coming down quickly, Recep Tayyip Erdogan had to change the agenda. He's fine with changing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0559par0068	You have a lot of conspiracy theories, Hasan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0558par0069	When the columnists who rented themselves said something on rented TVs, suddenly the agenda changed, and we changed the agenda immediately. What did the agenda go to? Should our congressmans enter the House with his headscarf or not? Thought about what? If our friends enter the Parliament about the headscarf, the Republican People's Party we've always known will be on top of the rows, and I'll hit their fists, and I'll use it during the election period. But, my dear congressman friends, they didn't come to this game because we didn't have a problem with the headscarf. But maybe the Justice and Development Party told me that the Republican People's Party hasn't told us in years. And they're in. Maybe your 90-year-old problem was solved. So, why didn't you let the people of this country empathize with this 90-year-old problem? If the problem with these people's headscarf is solved, why didn't you let 76 million make up with each other, let them talk to each other? Because there was this, your idea there was that this maturity by the Republican People's Party, because of its actions, even those who rented their pens began to write good things about the Republican People's Party. It was not possible for Recep Tayyip Erdogan to remove it. What happened? So where did we end up? It was necessary to change the agenda. What did you trade it for? In the history of the Republic, did you have the right to frighten this person about housing, about lodgings, about rental homes, about the people living east, north, south, west, aunt Fatma, and sister-in-law Ayşe, about her child staying in a room, in a house? Because you were scared. In your life, you don't have love in you, you're trying to grow up with hatred and hatred. If this fear, this hatred, starts with the Prime Minister and goes on to you, there's no way you're going to win the other people that you've made. My dear friends, I'd like to tell you a short story, perhaps you all know: the Indian sits in front of his tent, the chief of the tribe. Two dogs fight every day in front of the old Indian, in front of his tent. Your grandson can't stand it, he asks: "Grandpa, why do these dogs fight in front of your tent every day?" The Indian says: "Look, grandson, one is white, one represents goodness, one represents black, one represents evil." They fight as long as I want. He asks: "Well, which one of them will win?" The chief of the tribe says: "Whatever I feed in my heart, he wins." The time you feed evil in your heart, the evil will triumph within you. Feed love in your heart. In the time that you hold this love, this country will earn 76 million. You couldn't even digest the solution to the headscarf problem. So you take your grandson, and I do a lot, and on weekends, I take my grandson to the toy store. My grandson gets a toy there, and I can live with his happiness there, but he's a kid, so what are you gonna tell the kid? When you come home, the neighbor's kid tries to be a partner in playing with his toy, but because my grandson was taken to him, he suddenly forgets the happiness in that shop that day, in that store, and because he's uncomfortable, he doesn't share his toys with the neighbor's child, and then the unhappiness begins there. Now, that's the state of the AKP and Recep Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0560par0072	What's the budget got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0558par0073	I mean, we can tolerate what the kid's doing, but it's impossible to tolerate people in this country who run this country, who have claims of governance, who behave like children.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0561par0074	This country belongs to all of us. Who's being childish, who's being childish!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0558par0075	We all live together in this country. Work hard to do so, and do not use your hatred and hatred to suppress your love, to cast out hatred and hatred. We can solve any problem here. Just as we solved the problem with the headscarf, if you bring it to the House, if we talk in this House, we'll solve the Kurdish problem, just as long as it's the Parliament. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0562par0078	Thank you. Third speaker Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP. Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0563par0082	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Patent Institute budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, first of all, our direct Patent Institute, which is linked to the goal of being within the world's ten major economies in 2023 -- which is questionable how the government determines but is to be done with existing policies -- is unfortunately not more active with policies that are not considered enough to be global growth, development and production dynamics. The vision of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in its strategic plan 2010-2014 has been determined to speed up the transformation into the environmental and community-sensitive industrial structure, where the Turkish industry is more competitive and efficient than the world exports. In this framework, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology presentation of the budget bill refers to the increase of our country's share of non-national product to R&D by 21% by 2013, and the introduction of at least 50 per cent of the share by the private sector. These goals are the right goals, but in order to achieve them, you have to carry the same consciousness and the same excitement. Dear lawmakers, there are a few important issues that should not be ignored in the matter of patents. One is to achieve success at the rate of growth and to determine Turkey's production goals for development, to focus on innovations, high-tech products competing with the world, and to support the discovery of high-tech products, which is essentially the result of the development of high-tech products. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Ministry has expressed it this way, but when it comes to implementation, we will set aside 2 per cent of RD spending by 2013. Despite what he said, today's cut to RD was 0.86 per cent. So this is a very clear indication that what's said and done doesn't fit. Dear lawmakers, if you take the indicators of development from the beginning of the AKP's power and compare it to the AKP's ruling process without seeing the world, you'll deceive yourself. We need to compare world development indicators to emerging market economies. See, when you look at the data from 2011 in exports of high-tech products, we see that 1 billion 921 million dollars in Turkey make only 1.8 percent of industrial production from high-tech products. But at the same level in the 1960s, or even more advanced in South Korea, it's $122 billion for our $1.9 billion, and it's a 25.7 per cent share in South Korea exports. It also constitutes 43 per cent in Malaysia, 22% in Hungary, 18 per cent in America with 145 billion dollars, and 15 per cent in Germany with 183 billion. And the valued lawmakers, China, China, we compare ourselves with China, we call ourselves the world's fastest growing economy since China. But the products exported as high-tech products in 2011 are 457 billion dollars worth of lawmakers and 25.8 percent of the total exports of China. Mr. Secretary, yes, we're saying that we're going to divide RD by 2 percent, that we're going to compete with China, but where are the patents that China has applied for, where are they, where are we? And if you look at that, I mean, today's presentation of the Ministry of Industry also states that the patent applications for Turkey reached the 11,000 in 2012, but even with that figure, we are, unfortunately, the 25th place in the world. So we follow the example of South Korea. The number of patent applications in South Korea is 138 thousand, and the number of patent applications in China is 415 thousand. So we need to make an extraordinary leap. In these conditions, how are we going to get into the top 10 economies in 2023, growing by 3%, growing by 4%? And based on our RD spending, as I mentioned earlier, we're at 0.86 percent. Israel at 4.4, South Korea at 3,74, Germany at 2,82. If we continue with today's investments in the AR-GE, we will reach Spain's present state in 2040, Germany in 2100. So we need to be able to increase our acceleration of development, our RD spending at a higher rate than they do, so we can get a distance. Dear lawmakers are dragging the world economy and trade into advanced technology. If we aim to be among the world's largest economy in 2023, we must increase our growth rate to at least 6 percent and make it sustainable. And that's essentially what we're going to do in high-tech products with RD support. But as we have done in the last decade, our country will not be able to achieve success as low-tech production structure and low-middle-tech exports continue. Increased patents by incentives to RD, design, technology is the basis for the development of our country. The budget, unfortunately, does not address these important assessments. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0564par0094	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Binnaz Yurk, İstanbul MP. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0565par0098	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, you know, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, we're trying to approve the budget of a year without a Court report. You know what that means when you look at this. Especially today, I'm going to talk about TBITAK and TUBA budget. This is the thick, bricky book or report, the Plan and Budget Commission's 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. I'd like to read the last chapter of this report on TÜBITAK, as it is with you. In this chapter, the view of the audit, or the view of the Court, is written. In fact, TÜBITAK did not give the Court the notebooks and documents, so these documents were not given to the court, which he was legally obliged to give. Yet they were able to write something down, and they did it by looking at the medians and the medians and the balance sheet. I mean, it's not the last account, it's not the final account, but here's what they can find. As a summary of the audit view: The private budget of the Turkish Institute for Scientific and Technological Research (TÜBITAK) has been concluded that financial reports and paintings of 2012 do not reflect the outcome of the operations and operations of public administration as accurate and reliable; there are errors that may be considered important as content, quality and quantity; that is a terrible thing to be done in public administration, and that is a terrible thing to be believed in. What it says here in summary is that the report presented to the Court -- or the report presented by TÜBİTAK -- is not accurate and reliable at one time, it contains very important mistakes or important mistakes; there is no accounting system, this system is not set up; it does not have to be established legally; and there are major discrepancies in the legal regulations regarding its income and its property, when you look at its transactions. Now, I also consulted my friends who were in the Commission because I didn't know what they were talking about in the Plan and Budget Commission, and based on what I've learned from them, these notebooks are not only unsubstantiated, but there are irregularities, irregularities and corruption on payrolls, such as this information. The employees, for example, were paid over and over again, and they were made to look like they were involved in research like this, and they were paid from the TBITAK budget. As a matter of fact, when you look there -- I mean, if you look at this brick book -- this is the number on the pages -- there's a thousand lira loss or error in this regard. Four pages, five pages, that's what it says. They all add up to five million Turkish liras, all of the damage. Now, what is five million Turkish liras for a state budget? You might say, "What is it?" But it's an important number for a public company. The other day, during the opening of this budget, Mr. Prime Minister talked about some accounts, and he calculated them himself; he said, "Here's what a minimum wage worker gets when we come to power, and now he gets this much data; he gets this much lentils, but now he gets this much lentils. So I did an account like him, so what does that mean, and my account is: 14 workers work for 30 years, and if they don't spend money in any way, it's worth $5 million. So, it's a big money, it's a big money, and there's no telling why this money isn't here. Now, my question is, how did the TBITAK budget go through the Plan and Budget Commission despite all this insensitivity, disregarding laws, abuse? I think that's a very important question, so that kind of budget can't go through. I mean, I don't know much about budgets, but when I look at them, I'm really surprised, whether I'm reading them wrong, or if I don't get the words wrong, who voted for it? Actually, I want you to think about this question, and I'm telling this to the AKP people, but unfortunately, they're not there. I really want you to think, and I know the answer to that question myself, because as it has been done many times and many times in this House, it has been said: by the votes of members of the AKP. There are 40 members on that Commission. 25 of them are members of the AKP, when they raise their hands, like all commissions, and more importantly, as in this Parliament, they pass what they want, regardless of criticism, without looking at opposition views. I think it's terribly wrong, and now I want to ask Mr. Secretary what we're going to do with this painting. So the House will tolerate such an outrage? There's irregularities here, there's corruption here, there's error here, there's error here, there's violation of the law... will this Parliament approve a budget he calls a budget? So we're going to pay in 2014 for TÜBITAK, which didn't account for 2012? Oh, my God, I'm running out of time. In fact, I propose that if we're going to pass this bill, the 2012 bill, the final bill, let's put it in harm's way. First of all, let TÜBITAK present all these accounts over and over again, and let the Court find the perpetrators of corruption, apply them, and let the Court approve the 2012 budget after we report it to the Parliament. I mean, I don't know why our friends at Plan and Budget Commission didn't put in a sorority like that, and I don't get it, I just think it needs to be put in. Otherwise, if we really agree to this today, we will be clouding the seriousness and dignity of the House. At the same time, of course, it doesn't surprise me at all, because there's trouble in TUBITAK, TUBA, and there's trouble in both of them. One of the main reasons for this insensitivity is that the laws of the establishment have changed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0566par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0565par0110	They were both administrative, financial, and scientific autonomous organizations, while they became government institutions with a proposal from the AKP (AKP) or rather by the decree of the law. Of course there are mistakes. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0566par0113	Thank you, Mr. Earth. The fifth speaker is Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0567par0117	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, upon the budget of the National Ministry of Defense, I have been given the right to speak as a spokesman for the Republican People's Party's National Defence Commission. I salute you all. Let me start my conversation with an interesting memory. In my days as a MP, I was told to write an article on which commission you would like to be on, and apply with a petition. So I flagged the National Defense Commission without even thinking about it. My friends said: "Ya, Moroglu, you have served more than six years in prison for the coup of September 12th." Why, all of a sudden, did you choose the National Defence Commission, not the Human Rights Commission or the Justice Commission or anything like that? My answer was that, before I became an MP, the AKP was increasingly attacking all of us, the freedom of the press, the freedom of thought, our property, our lives, our freedom. I must have learned how the defence was done, I started with this kind of irony, but the real reason was that I thought it would be more appropriate to take part in the Commission because I thought Mustafa Moroglu, who had dealt with the army, the Turkish Armed Forces, before the military was attacked, without the courts prepared, would be able to provide a democratic arrangement for them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The mastery period in itself showed that the fact that we had to defend ourselves in many ways, especially when I was being ironic in my speech, has increased in the face of AKP's attacks. We had to defend our safety, we had to defend our freedom of expression, we had to defend our freedom of travel; we had to defend our trunks, our schools, our habitats, our trees, and our land; but most importantly, can I contribute to the National Defence Commission in order to defend our land? But unfortunately, I have to state that we have to defend our country's defenses against the outside forces, not against the power that governs us at the head of our country. We couldn't stop ourselves from losing our lives with the climate created by our governors, our interior ministers, and our police chiefs, on the orders of the Prime Minister himself. Just as with the Travel Resistance, just as with the mines, I'd like to move on to the criticism of a National Defense Ministry, who, despite all our efforts, has not been able to stop the Turkish Armed Forces from destroying our lives by following these instructions or following this climate. So, while our government is not too busy protecting our own lands, we have seen them, as if they were preparing to mount four wheels under Turkey to sell extortion auctions, while we have seen other countries try to defend their land as well. There's been a lot of talk about this, especially in the wars involving our neighbors, in the conflicts related to them, but the last day of Syria, so I think I'd like to share with you a fact that came out yesterday with the efforts of a journalist. We've always claimed it, we've tried to explain it. A shipment of weapons and ammunition is being delivered by a government that is responsible for protecting Turkey's territory in Syria. We said, "They always denied it, you lie to us, you give us false information." But the latest document came out that there was a shipment of 49 tons of weapons and ammunition from the U.N. databases of Turkey to Syria from June to the end of September. It's been recorded in the code/export title of lu. What's interesting is that this shipment of weapons has increased every month according to the conjunctive there, or how much Turkey wants to be involved in the war. For example, 3.3 tonnes of weapons and ammunition were delivered in June, and in July it went up to 4.4, and in August, at the time of the death of nearly 100,000 people, the chemical attack, it weighed 10 tons, but everyone expected war, especially the end of power, and that power must fall down. Yes, unfortunately, our country's power has followed a defence policy that is busy defending our defenses, or, rather, looting our neighbouring countries for the interests of other countries. It's the same secrecy... it's been put to great lengths of effort to hide them, but as this last example shows, the sun cannot be covered with clay, and our national defenses can't be carried out in secrecy. The same confidentiality was carried out by the Court. It's been mentioned a lot, but we've had the same secrecy in the budget of the National Department of Defense. One of the representatives of power has to come out and say, "Yes, because we have not been given any documents, we have not been able to make the necessary inspections on this matter. There will either be something done to the Court and others will be replaced, as in other institutions, or, yes, this was a flaw, and in the next term, the Court reports will have to be done in full front of this Assembly." In the budget talks, when we looked at talks in the National Ministry of Defence's Budget Commission, our Minister of Defense tried to explain that all developments in the national defence have been very clear and clear, that our defenses and armed forces are well equipped with good plumbing and that good investments have been made. He tried to explain that the staff was equipped with good rights, that they had enough of their rights. I think our Secretary of Defense is in the budget, and he should be able to talk and talk about other things when he gets here. Because there is a fact that the entire history of world wars and the War of Salvation has shown that if the country is to be defended, it can only be won by the integration of all peoples and Turkish Armed Forces, armed with defence. So no public defense can succeed, no war that the public does not participate in. Just like the small Vietnamese people, all the bombs of the United States, all the weapons of the United States, won that war, that success, just like the Salvation War, where all the villagers and all the people of Turkey, who had no weapons, no power in our national Liberation War, won the Salvation War side by side. For him, our beloved Minister, we must first address injustices, inequalities and injustices within the institution, the Turkish Armed Forces. In our two-and-a-half-year term, we've always tried to explain these facts: solve the inequality between the officers and the officers, eliminate the inequalities in their rights, compensate for the salary differences that have reached 300 percent. We said, "You have blocked it." We'll do something with very vague statements in the Plan and Budget Commission. We're looking for the optimum point. Again, at each panel meeting, we tried to express the injustices of the resensal pensioners in the laws of the military, Turkish Armed Forces, who came to every parliament. We'll always do it, we'll do it, we'll separate it. You said, "You haven't taken a step." For him, in these budget talks, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, you must now carry out three or four important requests from members of the Turkish Armed Forces, which all of our MPs have received from the public. When you fail to do so, let it be our duty to tell all the people that you are acting in the interest of other countries, not as a ministry that has claimed responsibility for Turkey's national defence, but as a ministry that is represented by the Prime Minister's instructions. No matter how these parliamentary platforms have been shut down to us, nor with your pressure, nor with your instructions, our voice is blocked by the media, the street is no longer a nationality of this ministry, and with this ministry's budget, we will try to explain that there is a ministry that is acting to defend the interests of other countries, with all the unfair practices it has done against members of the Turkish Armed Forces. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0568par0130	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, the last speaker is Orhan Süçük, the Slap MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0569par0135	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the Defense Industry Undersecretary's budget. I salute you all with love and respect. Congressmans, I think it's the opposition's duty to say what he does right as well as to criticize power. I know that the Defense Industry Undersecretary is actually doing very good things for the country, and I know that companies like ROKETSAN, HAVELSAN, ASELSAN, are producing very good weapons, and I know that what's going to be much happier is that they're doing all the work of 20 to 30-year-old kids who have graduated from our most respected universities. Most of these kids are ODTI graduates with 5,000 police officers in front of the Prime Minister. But these kids are only 1,500-2. They're trying to do it on a $500 salary. In the evenings at Kennedy, in the Swan, in the Dikmen, in the morning, they try to build weapons to defend their country. Congressmans, you can't win a war with guns. If there's a war -- and we're never for war -- you'll need an army with the will to fight and the spirit to fight. So, how's our army holding up, I'd like to give you a brief summation: Congressmans, the former Chief of Staff of the Army is currently in a dungeon. Between 2005-2013, the number of officers who retired or resigned voluntarily from the TSK was 8,339, the number of petty officers 23 thousand, and the number of experts who did not renew their contract willingly was 13.589, a total of 44,945. The number of soldiers killed between 2002-2012 was 818, the number of suicides was 934, the number of dead police was 94, and the number of police killed was 340. I applied verbally and in writing to the National Defence Commission, so I thought we'd investigate military suicides, and we didn't get a response. We sent a motion to the parliament to investigate the motives of both military and police suicides, and unfortunately, we didn't get any response, and the motions were left to rot on dusty shelves. Congressmans, I'd like to tell you a suicide story. It's told by the father of the fallen soldier. He says: "My son was a soldier, and he fought with his fellow wardmates over a conflict of sects. Later, the crowd raped and beaten my son. Then my son went to his commanding officer and told him, but the commander did not take the situation seriously. The boy who was depressed later was sent to psychiatry and was informed of his father. His father says: I saw him go, I didn't recognize my son, he was a different child. I begged the doctor to put him in the hospital, and I said, "This child is in very bad shape." They gave me a change of air, didn't put me to bed. We came to the village, my son told me this story, and the next day he committed suicide. Congressmans, there are dozens of such stories. Why don't you want to know these stories, why don't you stop them from being investigated? I asked the same father, "Why don't you complain?" His answer was more pathetic than suicide. He said, "Mr. Deputy, there is a widow and two children left. They told me that if you complain, they won't pay a martyr's salary. If I don't get a martyr's salary, how can I look at this woman and these children at the top of this mountain? Yes, my dear friends, I hope that Congress will do a serious investigation into these military and police suicides and make an effort to correct their motives. My army, dear friends, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, prostitution, espionage. On the one hand, the institution was trying to get roughed up, while on the other hand, personal abuse continued. Three days later, the anniversary of his death, Colonel Ali Tatar, was discovered on the websites of his family with an unspeakable slander. Our Prime Minister, who talks so much about the privacy of the state these days, about the privacy of the people, didn't mention anything about the privacy of that family that day, and unfortunately, he committed suicide. My dear friends, those who remain silent on these doodles that day have the blood of Colonel Ali Tatar. I hope you'll do something to clean up this blood. Again, I have to say, your government, who says they love police, when the cops try to use their union rights, when they try to form a union, they're out of business. No one has ever accounted for what their children would eat or drink, but they continue to resist and form their unions. Congressmans, there's actually a lot of cases like this, but I'd like to brief you on the Sledgehammer case. What happened with this sledgehammer case? Look, this is a painting of our military academy. Today's Chief of Staff was Commander of the Army Academy in those days. The most distant institution, the institution that tried to strike him, was only 600 meters away, next to the gendarme, 300 meters away from the military academy.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0570par0146	Show it to the Minister, the Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0569par0147	It was 30 meters from the Naval Academy, 30 meters from the Air Force Academy. Yes, valuable MPs, Commander of the Army Academy Command, Deputy Commander and Chief of Staff were arrested for coup; students of the Naval Military Academy were arrested; their commanders had already retired with a smear campaign; Commander of the Air Harp Academy and their students were arrested; students of the gendarmes were arrested; faculty and students of the Army Academy were arrested; not only the Commander of the Black Harp Academy were arrested, so our Chief of Staff today was not arrested. Yes, valued lawmakers, think of a view now: At the furthest distance of 600 meters from you, all the commanders, teachers, students sit down, supposedly plotting a coup to overthrow power, but Mr. Specile doesn't know anything about it, nor does he know anything about it. My dear friends, as he puts it, the government's office is a misdemeanor. If a military disciplinary action is carried out, it is also a crime according to Article 54, but unfortunately, he has not been taken into account as any action has been carried out. However, those who later saw that this story could not be believed, that no one would believe such a great story, that they evacuated the professors and students of the Supreme Court, and when we said so, Mr. Chief of Staff and a minister of the government accused us of bringing hypocrisy into the army. I'm telling you, it's the people who put the army in conflict, the people who pawned their own comrades, and the relatives who shot the soldiers in the mountains. It's not us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the day of true justice in this country is not far away, and let no one doubt that sooner or later we will bring the editors of this game to true justice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit05spe0571par0154	Thank you. This concludes the talks for the Republican People's Party Group. I'm gonna take a 40-minute break from the merger now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0571par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is Lütfü Türkkan, Kopeeli MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0572par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the MHP Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute your high council. In my speech, I'd like to show you how the industry gets worse every day in the Justice and Development Party's power, how the industrialist stops producing and becomes an importer as long as it takes. In 1990, Turkey ranked 13th in the manufacturing industry among 15 countries, and was left off the list in 2010. The dependency of our industry and exports on imports has reached alarming levels. Today, Turkey is importing $62 for $100 exports. Look, you have to use $39 in 2007 and $43 in imports in 2002 to make $100 worth of goods. I mean, imports have become attractive now. In a painting like this, can you claim that export numbers represent the truth? This power has killed the industry's competitiveness. The real growth rate in the industrial sector has collapsed very quickly. For example, the real growth rate was 12.8% in 2010, while in 2012 it was reduced to 1.9 per cent. This upside-down road in the industry must have shut down one shut-down at a time. According to data from the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, 22 per cent of companies founded in 2010, 24 per cent in 2011, 36 per cent in 2012. It exceeded 30 per cent in the first ten months of 2013. In 2011, the growth in production of the industrial sector, which was 11 per cent, dropped to 2.5 per cent in 2012. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are closed today from every 100 factories in the manufacturing industry. I'd like to give an example of my own constituency, Ezekiel. It's an industrial city with a husband, but I'm afraid it's going to disappear soon. All the industrial friends in the city are crying out for blood. Look, I'll tell you in numbers how the industrialists, the traders, shed blood. A total of 1,137 companies were opened between October 2012 and October 2013. Do you know how many were closed at the same time? 405 companies closed down and deleted their records. In addition, 144 industrial production facilities from 2012 to today have been closed, 144 factories a year. I'll tell you something now, Mr. Secretary of Science, Industry and Technology. Every minister feels his weight in his province. When you go with the Minister's election, you feel that minister's weight from investments. In other words, the minister will seal that city. But, unfortunately, that doesn't apply to Mr. Nihat Ergün, and there's no such thing, unfortunately, but it's sad but true. Since May 2009, he has done nothing for Mr. Secretary Bigeli, who has been sitting in this chair, and has not lifted a finger. In other provinces, the ministers of that province serve and leave their cities, but there is nothing that Mr. Nihat Ergün has brought into the city as Minister. If so, let him show it. There was a Genghis Tokel Airport, worked for three months, tried to open it with pressure from us and the public, so once a week, he's on a flight if the plane is full, he's got to transfer. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's see what happened in the last 11 years when the AKP was in power and what happened in the industry. Industrial production has slowed down. Importation addiction has grown to an alarming extent. There's a $62 import going on for $100 exports. The real growth rate in the industrial sector has collapsed. More than 30 per cent of the companies founded in the first ten months of this year shut down, unemployment became chronic. Turkey is the country that uses the most expensive electricity, fuel, water, among the countries it competes with in the industry. It's a country with the highest tax burden on employment, and the industry is trying to stand up. So, what else happened in the last 11 years when the Justice and Development Party was in power? The industrial base has melted in Turkey. Turkey grew smaller and smaller as countries that could not hold water on Turkey's hands. According to World Bank figures in recent years, 2.2% in Indonesia, 7.8% in Mexico; 4.1% in China, 1% in India, 7.7% in the Turkish industry. New plants joined the unemployment army when they thought of production. For 11 years, Justice and Development Party governments have not been able to travel a length of barley in the fight against unemployment. In the AKP, unemployment has not been reduced, and it has become really chronic. Don't mind those trick numbers. TÜİK did not include nearly 2 million people who did not look for work in 2012. When unemployed people are included, you can easily see that the unemployment rate in 2012 has increased to 17 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0573par0017	19 in 2013.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0572par0018	According to August 2013 data, Turkey has more than 5 million unemployed. No matter what the prime minister and ministers say, let them draw as many pink paintings as they want, the Turkish industry is in serious trouble, there are serious problems in the economy. Our national industry, our manufacturer, is in a difficult situation, and the competitiveness has really reached its limit. Many industrialists, producers, businessmen have fallen into debt and are on the verge of bankruptcy; executive officials are lining up. To get to the flat, you need new plans focused on production, employment and exports. However, the Justice and Development Party government does not even have such a plan. All their plans are designed to enrich their followers. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there's a lot of young people in our country. We have problems with the city population. That's why it's urgent to establish employment-intensity industries. If we want to make Turkey an industrial state, we have to give weight to agriculture-based industry to feed our people because of the drought, because of the growing population. The most efficient way to employ unemployed in Turkey is to ensure that they live in areas of agriculture and work in agriculture. While this is being done, on the other hand, industry based on agriculture in the same areas should be encouraged to become a more profitable sector. Industrialists don't just deal with the problems I just told them, they have other problems. An employer has to employ occupational health, occupational safety specialists, occupational physicians, assistant medical staff, lawyers at work. The average cost to the employer is around $15,000 a month. Is that all? Of course not. On top of that, there's the government's tax pressure. The Coach Group recently launched a tax review. We all know why this happened. Because a coach group hotel opened its door to those who were over-inflicted by the police in travel activities. That step cost Coach Group a lot of money. The Finance Ministry increased the tax fine of 103.2m Turkish liras to the building loan bank after TÜPRAS and Aygaz by another 25.8 million Turkish liras. Not only did he send a tax inspector to the Coach Group, but he sent a tax inspector to Boydak Holdings. You know why? After the tax audit raids against the Coach Group, Boydak Holdings supported Coach Group, and you are an enemy in the business world, not an enemy. Following this statement, Boydak Holdings had a falling out with the government. On top of that, it was even less when the chairman of the Governing Body stated that the closing of the classrooms was wrong. The government is now asking for the account from Boydak Holdings. In a nutshell, you're gonna cook on the back of the industrialist's neck, waiting for production, waiting for exports. That's not possible at all, lawmakers. And finally, in my speech, I want to emphasize the importance of innovation. Turkey is behind many countries in innovation, far behind. In the last ten years, Turkey has grown from illegal national product to RD and innovation to about 1, while in 2012, it has risen to the 8th in a thousand. This is a beautiful development, admirable, but five or six years ago, Turkey was aiming to divide 2% of its illegal national product into RD and innovation in 2013, and it did not. In order for industry to develop in Turkey, the budget for innovation also needs to be increased because the average is around 7 per cent in the world. I mean, if we want to become jihadists, we have no choice but to turn into an innovation country that offers new technologies in the world. While the West gave up heavy metal industry, automotive industry that contaminated its environment, we began to imitate the West very late. In the domestic automotive sector, which Mr. Minister of Economy and Mr. Minister of Industry insisted on, the Westerners began to leave the automotive sector in Europe. It's because of their environmental sensitivity that metal production has caused the country to suffer. Western Europe, which produces metal in the Far East, China, began to export very serious technology with the resources of technology, along with Japan. Renault is selling a car in France for 6,000 dollars, while Japan sells a 360-degree simulation of a vehicle camera for $9.800. One sells a car of 1.5 tons for 6,000 dollars, while one sells a digital device of only 170 grams for $9.800. Turkey should not be among the countries that Western Europe has contaminated, it should be sensitive to its environment, avoiding the metal industry violently, investing in technology. I pray that this budget, the budget of 2014, brings blessings to our country, to our nation, from the Lord God, to all of you, I salute you, thank you, and exist.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0574par0025	Thank you. The second speaker is Celal Adan, İstanbul MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0575par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In expressing that the COBI is the engine of the economy, we have supported, developed the KMEs. The government does not speak out of words like that, but the government does not have any SME policy, only the COBI restoration. The prime minister says that in the past 11 years as a government, we have supported, strengthened, developed, and supported this tremendous potential by providing $2.2 billion to SMEs. In addition, we received a $1 billion portion of the interest interest that our COBIs used as government. It is a confession that makes SMEs smile. Turkey has more than 2 million SMEs, including microscale ones. So every single SME in 11 years has been given 1,100 Turkish liras. This means that each of the COBIs is worth 100 Turkish liras per year. Did the Prime Minister also calculate how much tax, tuition, and punishment he received from the SME he gave $100 a year? 212,000 SMEs have given 1 billion Turkish liras interest support, each of which is $4,600 Turkish liras. Here's the water, this is the water. Support which does not cover a month's rent and the expression is..can water. We don't mind, the Prime Minister said we already have a culture of alms. But let's not forget, the life water he gave was given to the SMEs who fainted from the crisis and lay on the ground for a long time. Does the Prime Minister also know how many thousands of SMEs he drowned when giving this alms? At the end of the first half of 2013, what is 190 thousand COBIs under foreclosure, Minister? Stand up straight and talk curvy, or sit on a curve and talk straight? The government always chooses the first, so I choose the second. You know, in Turkey, the main problem with SMEs is access to financial resources. Why? Because that road has been closed to the COBI. So, did the government open this road? Did he make a single attempt to open it for 11 years? He hasn't been found. When asked, I'm not responsible. It's an interest lobby. Let's see what the real situation is. Let's take a look at what the government has said about a real COBIID report, which they never neglected to participate in and take pictures of the size. In June 2003, he said that banking must also be transferred from the system that lends loans to guarantees to the system that lends loans to the project. Public banks need to gain weight in investment banking activities as well as deposit banking. The banking system should be encouraged to finance the project, divide public projects into affordable scales, expand the base in the implementation of projects. Open the way for medium-sized enterprises in energy investments, go to gradual implementation of large-scale portfolio privatisations. These demands point to the point in which the Justice and Development Party has not dropped its language in 11 years, accompanied by SME literature. ONLY a series of reforms can meet the requirements of the KOBI. The Justice and Development Party, which has kept the word "Reform" in its mouth, has never once taken a step in favor of the COBI. The government has no policy in favour of the SMEs, but it clearly has a policy that crushes the SMEs. Moreover, it has been announced that it will further deepen its policy of hostility towards the SME as it enters 2014. The Central Future Program is linked to the sacrifice of the KOBI. How? You know, until 2016, the government withdrew its economic growth goals. He also declared a savings policy. He's taking a series of narrowing measures, which will obviously tighten the stock of the COBI a little bit more. First, let's look at this side: the government remains less visionary in its policy to reduce the rate of growth in the economy; it attacks the market as it gets stuck, resorts to rude measures, resorts to bans to reduce consumption. Don't be surprised if he tries to commit postmodern narc tomorrow! When he realizes he can't close with debt, he attacks the productive real economy to reduce the current deficit. However, we know that in Turkey, the SME maintains employees who make up 70 per cent of the market for SMEs and all employees. Every attack on the domestic market is an attack on the SMEs in Turkey. Every time the Prime Minister got stuck, he started a new era, and now he's started the age of low-sesame bagels. Everyone knows and says: Cari is open, not born from consumption of consumer goods, but from the consumption of intermediary goods. I mean, it's not born in consumption, it's born in production; the only solution is high-income production. A few years ago, the government announced a strategy for industrialization, which it called "new" with ceremonies, which is imported. What's new about it? Turkey's 1960-1980 policy. One part of AKP-style industrialisation was the SME strategy and action plan. THE management skills and institutional skills of the KOBI would be developed, and the COBIs would be given RD and innovation capacity. But how? By excluding the COBI. R&amp;#5746 R&amp;R&amp;amp;R&amp;&amp;amp;amp;&amp;gt;The R&amp;amp;gt;R&amp;amp;amp;&amp;&amp;gt;The R&amp;amp;amp;#5746 The Korans were supported, exemption, exceptions, and, of course, the number was reduced to 30, under the condition that 50 and more full-time researchers were employed. The numbers should not be looked at, and the COBIs should not be able to do research or development. There are 3-5 researchers? It's useless. It's looked at. This understanding can't move SMEs to high-profile production. That understanding does not make SMEs competitive. However, we are looking at the framework programs developed by the European Union for RD: How can I grant concessions to SMEs? 30, 50, 100 researchers aren't looking for employment, they're looking for a COBI willing to do RD, they're supporting a single researcher. Here's the EU, here's the AKP, here's the COBI policy. Turkey is entering 2014 with great uncertainty. Hundreds of thousands of COBIs are worried; it's already working unprofitable, it's working unsupported, it doesn't know what's going to happen tomorrow. You know, we had a law to protect one minor, we said we'd follow EU COBI requirements, we'd protect the SMEs. I thought you said the COBIs were going to step up in public purchases. When the payments were to be given priority to the COBIs, the terms of the purchases would be rewritten according to the COBIs? Supermarkets, malls, were they going to look after the COBI in the payments? None of this ever happened, and it simply won't happen with the AKP. What about the words of financial, administrative reform that concern the SMEs, supports the production? Where's your tax reform? Almost 80 per cent of the income tax is paid by people who are paid and the rest by small tradesmen and SMEs. You're predicting $348 billion in tax revenues, who are you going to get them from? 118 billion from consumption, indirect taxes. AKP finance has become an automatic collection machine. You've turned a civilized practice called tax review into these tax raids. It's not taxing, it's an attack on the economy. At this rate, you won't find the COBI to tax. I'll say it's time, but you don't intend to. When it comes to economics, the AKP is a word, not a job. The AKP has great economists, and they have no trouble finding an excuse for every stumbling. Their first bunker is globalization. Whether the foreign capital entry has slowed down, the defect is the Fed's; whether exports are cramped, or Europe's fault is the one who can't get out of the crisis. You export tonage instead of high-velocity value, because it's the private sector that avoids RD investment, the COBIs, the interest lobby. Cari is big; the excuse is ready, the reason is our energy import. Well, South Korea imports $110 billion in energy, but there's more. How does that work? The AKP has no flaws, the AKP is oppressed, the criminal is globalization! Is it believable that a government who is constantly complaining about globalization is making global claims? It gives all of the government's economic decisions a clear direction. Did he grow up? Cut the loans, strangle the SMEs, narrow the market. Did he fall? Speed up the imports of intermediary goods, revitalize the processing, increase exports. Who are you selling the high-end value to? There's no fighting this policy in terms of the current explanation. Turkey has shorted 57 billion dollars in 80 years between 1923 and 2002. In 2002, the AKP took over an economy with 3.5 per cent of the current deficit's national income. Over the last eight years, he produced seven times the total current deficit of 80 years ago, tripled the deficit's rate of national income, and failed in his claim to increase value production because it was unpolitic. Can't Turkey go into high-velocity production? If he has a policy, he'll get over it. First, the infrastructure for high-increment production of SMEs will be prepared. The primary part of infrastructure is education, universities, raising a lot of researchers. The AKP is afraid to discuss these issues. Look at the arguments he's started on education in Turkey today. Is this the argument Turkey needs? This should not be the quality of education. You can't be competitive with this training. You know, different and critical thinking, where is the incentive for innovative intelligence? The government, on the other hand, is busy braking social intelligence. Even if you reset the cost of input in the economy with this approach, you can't close the current deficit. In fact, there's no current openings in Turkey, there's a gap of merit. With no support, our notorious Minister of Economy often says that we will have 100,000 exporters, KOBI. We'll grow up on exports. How, with words? KOBI can't be an exporter because foreign markets don't know, can't do market research, can't get past bureaucratic barriers. COBİ's employment, exports, innovation, technology, AR-GE, there is no support to improve their financing capacities, and what's low enough to be unreachable. The COBI isn't even willing to take what's happened. Look at the points where the KOBIs can reach public support, they are COSGEB, development agencies. Each one of them is a bureaucratic cluster. The AKP has created a new saying. Let's get out of the middle income trap. There is only one known way: you will create more suitable environments for the COBIs, and you will not make the COBIs ignorant. SMEs are not ignorant, on the contrary, the intellectual and experimental intelligence of the Turkish economy is in the COBI. KOBI (KoBI) want the right policy, not charity. There is no suitable environment for entrepreneurry, the entrepreneur doesn't grow because there's no business capital, it's hard for an entrepreneur to find and create, there's no entrepreneurial support, and it's getting smaller and smaller. In modern times, the first sector is the IT sector, which popularises creativity and initiative. The IT sector establishes the new economy and the information community. In Turkey, the SMEs are still out of the sector. The largest unemployment, irresolvency, policylessness are living in the IT sector. There is still no concrete project for the COBIs to form clusters in the IT sector. Enterpriseship is something that is feared in Turkey, not in itself, because of AKP's policylessness. How does Turkey get out of a middle income trap? He'll go out with RD and innovation, but he'll never get out with AKP's policylessness. It's serious. There's a lack of politics, there's a lack of seriousness. For example, over the past few years, the vision of 2023 has not fallen from their mouths. It seems that such a vision exists in reality. As the National Movement Party, we don't want copyright on this, but we have the right to sue for irrigation. There has been no other example of educating a society project that has been prepared by a thousand labours. Let those who don't know know know know. I would like to point out that under it is the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. State Gardener, the work of Vision 2023, and Strategy Document 2003-2023. It is a study launched by us on the High Council of Science and Technology in December 2000, where thousands of experts from all sectors and sectors participated, focused on 20 years of science and technology policies dating back to 2023, discussed as a social project, a total of 192 meetings a year, 36 large-accession panel meetings, 7 thousand experts, answered from 2,400 experts, and road maps for a total of 94 technological activities. AKP's vision of 2023 is not vision, nor is the continuation of the 2023 vision of the 57th government. The Justice and Development Party, 2023, is just a joke. Dear MPs, they've drawn big scenarios in foreign policy, they've ruled the world, they haven't been able to rule Erbil, they haven't been able to govern Syria, they haven't been able to govern any dynamics. I'm just saying because we're running out of time. In 2002, the internal debt is 92 billion dollars, 201 billion dollars today; the external debt is 86 billion dollars 2002, $114 billion today. Private sector foreign debt is $43 billion in 2002, 252 billion today. The total external debt is at 129 billion dollars 2002, currently $367 billion; consumer loans are important, 2.3 billion Turkish liras; currently 213 billion Turkish dollars; credit card debt is $4.1 billion Turkish dollars, currently 84 billion Turkish dollars. On this occasion, I have shared our thoughts with you, dear lawmakers. I wish our nation well, and I wish you all my regards by saying we'll vote against it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0576par0054	Thank you. The third speaker is Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0577par0059	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the President of TÜBITAK and the Turkish Academy of Sciences. I salute your honorable delegation and the great Turkish nation. On the way here, the pensioners have been wanting to make an announcement with phone calls, e-mails, e-mails for days. The government has forgotten us, so remember, remind us from the stand. Retired people are in trouble, unable to reach each other by the beginning of the month. Let them go and give us a share in this budget. I grant their wishes. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the TÜBITAK budget, it's an institution that has become a complex institution where the stem and the hay are mixed together, where the account is not recovered. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the Court says. In his report, he sent matter, pen, pen, courtesy, kindness, and misstatement. 43 billion, 2 billion, 825 thousand, 7 billion, 344 thousand, 1 billion, 702, 8 billion, 968 thousand... According to the miscalculation of accounting records for the review of the Ankara Presidential Service building, 67,070 from the building account, 44,000 from the reevaluation account, 882 000 from the expense account, and 43 million from the deposits account, the lawmakers gave the agency a negative assessment report. We're talking about what we're talking about again, how this comes to the General Assembly, again, to the Minister's discretion, to the discretion of the esteemed MPs. Dear MPs, this is the common feature of the Turkish Academy of Sciences called TUBITAK and TUBA. In a free environment, science serves the country and humanity if it is produced by scientists. This institution, which originally belonged to the Prime Minister, then operates within this institution, connecting with the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in Turkey. These institutions, which need to be interested in science, research and development, are unfortunately condemned to political staffing. In 93, the establishment of a scientific, administrative, and financial autonomy within the framework of the TUBA would provide autonomy for the academics, scientists, as a result of their own election. The government interfered with the TÜBA, issued a decree in accordance with the law, raising the 150-member scientific delegation to 300 people, one-third from TÜBITAK, one-third from the YAK, and the remaining one-third by choosing one-third from the scientists themselves. The SEC and TÜBİTAK are institutions under government control, so the scientific autonomy of the ÜBA (TÜBA) has been destroyed by giving the scientific board directly to the truth. As a result of this 2011 application, 69 members of the TÜBA have resigned. The European Federation of National Academys of Sciences sent a letter to our President stating that the work done was an insult to science, and we were protesting because of the science policies we implemented in Europe. TÜBITAK was head of institutions in the field of science that our government and our nation were proud of, but today, this quality is becoming increasingly lost. It is possible to see the effects of political influence under TUBITAK. Earlier, the Prime Minister appointed ten of the 14-member administration of TÜBİTAK (TİBİTAK) by the Prime Minister. I'd like to give you an example of the accuracy of the assignments. A history is mentioned on the TÜBITAK website. One enters a high school firm on Thursday Sunday. Working with that firm, he's also studying and becoming a chemical engineer, he's studying chemistry, and he's making this company an international firm. You know, the science thing, the piece he wrote, where's the science-related infrastructure? This person is being put on the science board. This person, unfortunately, is today a member of TÜBİTAK, who will be evaluated elsewhere with his business, as an entrepreneur. We're looking at people who were appointed to TÜBA. 19 people don't have a single international article. Of the people appointed by the YOK, 20 have never been active in academic publications. On the other hand, as if making fun of appointments, the former head of the SEC is appointed as a member of the ÜBA (TÜBITAK) list from the former TÜBITAK list. Moreover, those who had previously become members of the century have been assigned to the same location and have been given a ridiculed appointment. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party wants to clear science as well as the institutions it launders! What's wrong with it? Did it get better? We've achieved success? Has Turkey reached a better point in international measurements? Let's take a look at these. There are some international indicators that take into account these activities of countries in comparing countries with each other and determining their competitive ability to compete. One of the common indicators is the index of science, technology, intimacy and use. According to the AHE Index for AHE, developed by the World Economic Forum, called the Prepared to Be in Networks, our country ranked as the 61st in the world during 2001-2002, ranking 61st in the 2008-2009 period, ranked ranked ranked 69th in the period 2010-2011, and ranked 52nd in the period 2010-2011. According to these data, Turkey has fallen 10 places in terms of science and technology infrastructure and RD activities during the ten-year period of AKP rulings, compared to 2002. Although the government states that our country has 16th, 17th largest economy at every opportunity, however, according to the World Economic Forum data, our country, which is among the second group in terms of national income per capita, ranked 46/th in the world ranking in 2002, while the World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Index, according to the 2012-2013 data, ranked in the national income ranking at 59 percent. Finally, in ten years, our country has been five more places behind the economic power of international competition in science and technology. This shows that our country's economic power does not split its share of RD activities. The World Economic Forum's Global Competition Report was available in 2012, and our country was ranked only in the 72nd ranking of 142 countries. According to this report, our country is at the level of developed countries in 5 categories, near development in 4 categories, at the level of progress in 3 categories, and far from the level of development in 8 categories. Dear MPs, Turkey is not where it should be in science and technology. The reason for this is the efforts of AKP government to take over institutions such as crooked education policies, TÜBA, TÜBITAK -- as they do to other institutions -- as well as the result of strong, competent, scientific buildup, careers and works. Even though there are tens of thousands of IT teachers who graduated from universities, they have 100 hours of IT training in schools. I'm offering you the appreciation for the contribution of these studies to scientific activities in order to save the day, while the country has raised people in its infrastructure, while the teachers are there, while the IT teachers are waiting in line to be assigned to the staff. Therefore, I would like to say that it is absolutely important for I.T. teachers to be given quotas in February. Dear lawmakers, we have to become a country that dominates science and produces science and technology. In this institution, very valuable scientists are doing very important work. These important people we've raised in TÜBITAK, unfortunately, our government can't protect these people, it can't take care of them. Krypto expert 3 TÜBITAK officers died in 2004 in a suspicious accident along the Çanakkale-Galipoli road. A captain and two engineers who were doing a strategic mission to national security at TÜBİTAK, working on secret codes related to Turkey's security, were on their way to Çanakkale to try out a new military device they had developed. The villagers report the accident to the prosecutor's office, a vehicle arrives before the prosecutor's office, searching inside the vehicle and leaving. What was taken, who caused this accident, from behind, because between the two vehicles, they crush and slaughter these people. Beyond that, it's like the killing of three engineers in ASELSAN over the nationalization of aircraft advertising systems. These are, as you know, three of our valuable people, who have led the U.S.-guided electronic systems out of control, who have uncovered the equipment that nationalizes this dominance, jumped from the sixth floor of the building to the seventh floor, making it look like suicide in different parts of Ankara. Such scenarios have led to their deaths. That's what the budget looks like. I'm expressing that TUBITAK is in a place that neither TUBA (TUBA) nor deserves. I salute your grand delegation with the wishes of the budget to bring blessings to our country.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0578par0077	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Koray Aydın, Congressman of Tripoli. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0579par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. On this occasion, I salute you all. The practice of so-called solutions and peacekeeping has weakened our national defence and security policies. As it is known, an important part of the command level has been convicted of attempted coup due to operations carried out to wear down, discredit, and neutralize the Turkish Armed Forces. There was no admiral left to be appointed to the Navy Command, and our current Navy Commander was promoted to admiral about eight months after he was appointed. The AKP's government, unfortunately, has taken its toll on destroying the established provisions of the Turkish Armed Forces. Many officers who reacted have resigned. The Turkish Armed Forces were negatively affected by the whole process, and our soldier was depressed. AKP power ignores not only military personnel but also the problems of civil servants serving within the Turkish Armed Forces. Our civil servants, who are considered military personnel in terms of work, permits and discipline, are considered regular civil servants in regard to salary. The situation of our civil servants is similar to the case of our citizens who work in Germany: the Germanist in Turkey and the foreigner in Germany. Mr. President, the position of our distinguished deputies is pathetic. Specialists who have been deprived of all the improvements are left alone with their own destiny. In the Turkish Armed Forces, an officer, a petty officer, an expert police officer, all civilian officers have been given additional indicators according to their working years, with no additional indicators for experts alone. Experts should also be given additional indicators according to their education and seniority years, and this injustice and injustice must be dealt with urgently. The health and discipline of specialists must be equated with those who serve in the same way. According to the current legislation, specialists are cut off from the military in weather changes and reports over 90 days. Only cancer and some diseases are exceptions, but the injuries and injuries caused by the car accident are sadly forgotten. Another problem facing our attendings is the pension problem. Experts of the age of 45 work as civil servants in the Turkish Armed Forces until they deserve a pension, and as soon as their time is up, they are forced to retire. The legislation for the transfer of specialists to the staff of public institutions and institutions has been denied from these brothers and sisters, which have been left to the pleasure of institutions, which have not been consolidated or coerced, and has been imposed on victims of privatisation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the situation of our petty officers is no different than the chief of staff. Now, I'd like to share with you a very sad piece of information that has reached me about our petty officers. Look, in November, in 14 days, six of our petty officers committed suicide for various reasons. The Turkish Association of Retired Petty Officers, which led us to the news, needs further research, study, and solutions, even if they have cited reasons such as pressure, economic inadequacies, illegal practices. What more do our petty officers have to do to explain their troubles to this government? The officer and petty officer suicides that have the Turkish nation's conscience must be investigated immediately, and whatever the reasons are under it must be discovered and found a cure. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the government's derailed recruitment system, it's a puzzle board, it's a dead end. As you all know, each time, the last time they've been called a priced military arrangement, the basic training in the arrangement has been removed, and as I mentioned earlier -- it's been officially applied to a cost-effective exemption. The priced statement of the AKP spokesman, which has occurred to you, puts both Mr. National Defence Minister and tens of thousands of young people and their families in a difficult position. The national defence policies of the AKP's government, particularly the constant agenda of the Bedelli military implementation, are alienating our young people from military service. As of December 2013, the number of soldiers and soldiers in the Turkish Armed Forces is 434,797, while today, the number of deserters is much higher than these. Just last year, the government launched the end-of-season campaign in the military, and this year it is trying to prevent a record increase in the number of deserters with record punishments. But this conflicting picture in front of us is the work of the AKP's government, just like the system of education and health, which has been turned into a sabbatical board and face-to-face. The AKP makes the same mistakes in both foreign policy and national defence policy but expects different results. Turkey's defence and security are severely damaged, unfortunately, by the lack of horizons, inconsistencies and inconsistencies of power in foreign policy. Dear friends, I want to draw your attention to the developments in the eastern Mediterranean. We cannot ignore the alliances established in the Eastern Mediterranean, which are vital to Turkey's security. As a matter of fact, the Greek Cypriot government began its collaboration with Egypt without delay; it was agreed between the parties that Egypt provided technical support for the Greek administration in the search for natural gas and economic co-operation. However, without all this, the warning of Mr. Dervis Eroglu, President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, had appeared in the newspapers. Mr. Eroglu has rebelled, with whomever Turkey opposes, the Greek and Greek move to develop relations with it, to make new deals. Here is Israel, and finally Egypt. If Egypt and Greece agree, it will put us in trouble. Sadly, this is what you brought us with Egypt, where you had an unnecessary quarrel. Mr. President, the security of Turkey's southern borders begins not from Antalya, but from Mersin, but from beyond Cyprus. Like the AKP's foreign policy on strategic depth policy, the national defence policy sank in the deep waters of the Mediterranean. When we say the southern border, we don't just mean the eastern Mediterranean. The real disaster is at our Syrian border. As you know, the longest land border with our country's neighbours is the Syrian border. Mr. Prime Minister's speech of my brother Assad (such as Assad) has been transformed into Esed. The return of this U (U) has cost Turkey a great deal of money. The AKP's separatist terrorist group, PKK's Syrian arm, Salih Müslim (PYD) leader, has made it clear and clear that they will build autonomous Kurdistan in northern Syria by walking this way. The AKP's power thus plunged Turkey into a new swamp in Syria and built the so-called Western Kurdistan, as separatist circles call it, with their own hands. During the AKP's rule, Turkey was positioned as a country where its citizens were attacked at sea and killed in the air, the cities were bombed and massacred on land. And according to recent research, Turkey, unfortunately, has had a sense of a country in this region that, sadly, is unreliable, a liar, and can stab anyone in the back. No one has the right to do this to Turkey. Mr. President, I'm afraid they've agreed to this statement to the Prime Minister, as the esteemed lawmakers say, separatist, separatist circles, Kurdistan. For the first time in the history of the Republic, a Prime Minister used the expression "Kurdistan" and gave life to the cause of separatist environments. Now we ask: What galaxy is north of this so-called Kurdistan, which is in Syria, which is east of Iran, and which is south of Iraq? What do you have here, Ottomans had the provinces of Lazistan and Kurdistan. If you say, "You will divide this country with your own hands, and you will bring division amongst the people. After that, if you apply the world's most perfect defense and security policy, you can't prevent division. As our national poet Mehmet Akif. (Turkishman) says, unless you enter a nation, no enemy can enter a nation. As a group, the heart cannot digest it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0580par0098	Why did they drive Mehmet Akif?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0579par0099	Dear friends, separatist and separatist have not been able to take the pace of the front, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report of the 2014 budget bill has repeatedly written its declaration of opposition. The AKP, which is alarmed by the decisive stance of the National Movement Party and its leader and the upcoming local elections, quickly stepped in and removed its power from the eclectic bookstore. Now some AKP spokesman are most upset that we're going to be able to go around television and make a statement about Kurdistan because they're going to make propaganda material in the election. However, it is the will of the Nationalist Movement Party to remove the declaration of Kurdistan from that bookstore that is the will of steel in the face of divisive betrayal. Now the big radish is waiting in the saddlebag. The AKP, BDP, was presented to Parliament the first of the so-called democraticisation packages prepared in PKK partnership and finalised on the Imralı-Kandil line. There is Kurdish education in that division package, Kurdish sign, political freedom for terrorists and co-presidential rights, and there are infrastructure preparations for the so-called Kurdistan. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Turkish nation who tore apart Sevr's rag, will also ruin this 100-year-old re-enactment play. I invite you here to consider a portion of the Sevr Peace Accord, which aims to tear our country apart and end the Turkish-Islam existence in Anatolia, a part of which most people do not know about and are not included in textbooks, and I invite the entire Turkish nation to think about it. I have the original deal. The Treaty of Sevr was signed in Paris in 1920. A commission of British, French and Italian representatives will be established and within six months local autonomy will be provided for the Kurdish-dominated provinces. Article 63: The Ottoman government has already committed to accepting and implementing the decisions of the commissions envisioned in Article 62, starting in three months, starting with its report. Article 64: If the Kurds in the areas listed in Article 62, one year after the agreement was adopted, by proving that the majority of the population in these areas wanted independence from Turkey, the Council will appeal to the Council of Nations to the Council of Nations that this population is capable of independence, and if Turkey recommends to Turkey to recognise that independence, it will already pledge to obey that advice, to renounce all its rights and adjectives on these regions. Now, I ask you, what's the difference between yesterday's Sevr Agreement and the so-called solution today? Once again, we're warning you that the so-called solution process will lead to a gradual disintegration of the Turkish homeland. The so-called solution process is the implementation of Sevr, a 100 - year - old empirical empirical of imperialists. Now, where do you get all this from? Do you study intent for opposition? Some may say, but it happens from time to time. We show them the steps that have been taken so far as collateral and once again warn them that what the National Party of Action does is not read intent, but read history. Let no man think that the Turks' humility for a thousand years is ineffective. The Turkish nation will not raise its head to its executioner like a docile sheep, but will surely eliminate the treacherous attack on its presence and its unit. In these feelings and thoughts, I call upon the good luck of the 2014 budget to our country and our nation, and salute you all on behalf of the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0581par0109	Thank you. So the talks on behalf of the National Party for Action are complete. Now we move on to group talks on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party. First speaker to Property One, Kars MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0582par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Ministry of Industry and its respective institutions in the 2014 Central Management Budget Act. I salute you, Mr. Hatip Dicle, our arrested MPs, Mr. İbrahim Ayhan, Mr. Selma River, Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldı, Mr. Kemal Aktaş and Mr. Gülser Yıldırım. Budget talks have been set up without jointisation, non-participating sensitivity, vague and absorption, without the basis of democratic participation, without the application of negotiations and approval of the broadest parts of society, and continue to be discussed with the General Assembly. Before we make a statement about the ministry, I'm going to talk a little bit better about our MPs, who have been held as political hostages in prison for years, with a sense of power that will help us understand why the budget is governed by one force. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, budget rights means asking political power to account for how public taxes are being spent. However, government budget policies have eliminated that right. Budget talks not only violate democratic participation, but also block accession of Turkey and Kurdistan MPs. Mr. Hatip Dicle, Riha MP İbrahim Ayhan, Şırnak MPs Mr. Selma Irmak and Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldı, Van MP Kemal Aktaş and Merdin MP Mr. Gülser Yıldırım have been removed from their rights to use the people's will even though they have been elected MP. They were elected as MPs in the 24th term, but the term is almost over, while lawmakers are still in prison. As noted in the text at our party's press conference today, the verb they are accused of is politics. This is part of the freedom of thought, organization and politics. Our deputies have been held as political hostages in prison for years, like other imprisoned politicians, and with long imprisonment, in fact, they're clearly facing an open execution. Given the amount of time they're under arrest, even if they're sentenced, they've already completed the execution of their sentence. I do what I know about the democratic regime, and if you don't like it, you don't vote for me in the chest. We ask the Prime Minister who narrowed it down enough to fit it in a crate with his attitude: If democracy is living at the polls, why are the Kurdistanns in prison, where are the representatives they vote for, the overwhelming majority of their choice? Why was the deputyship of Mr. Hatip Dicle taken down? Has the will of 85,945 people who voted for him been respected by your power? On what grounds is this will held in prison? If Mr. Hatip Dicle and all of our other MPs hadn't been elected, would they still be in prisons? In Kurdistan, the MPs are being held in prison and released in İstanbul. You're going to say "Democratic politics," you're going to call the guerrillas into politics, you're going to keep Kurdistan MPs in prison. Mr. Prime Minister will say in the squares, the judge will say, the prosecutor will punish, Kurdistan,, the people's speakers, the servants of the people, the MPs, and you will keep the MPs in prison. What do you call that? However, however, it is the politics of deception. In addition to the Kurds currently imprisoned in prison, the arrested MPs are also in prison with 356,104 Kurdistanns who voted for them. What democracy can be mentioned in this situation? Democracy cannot be limited to voting in the polls, as there are no systems where power is the only power. For those who have earned the right to enter parliament through parliamentary democracy, I do what the authorities want. It's an authoritarian regime. When these people get out of prison, they'll come to the House. There's no doubt of escape, there's no evidence of a blackout. Besides, we don't know what they're accused of, and neither do they, the judges and the prosecutors. Get rid of this law freak, get rid of this shame. The continuation of arrests is the imprisonment of democracy, law, justice, the will of the people, the right to choose and be elected. The latest Supreme Court has made a decision regarding Mr. Balbay. And this decision, without any discussion, is binding. According to this decision, all the chosen ones must be released, but the administration and judicial bodies do not comply. The Constitutional Court's decision would have to be carried out without question. However, today, Diyarbakır 5. And 6. The High Criminal Courts have rejected the request of our arrested MPs to evacuate with a majority of votes. This decision is a political decision, not a legal one. The judiciary, independent or dependent, follows a segregation toward our imprisoned MPs and politicians. This decision is a legal scandal, a double standard. This decision, which we have often expressed over the years, operates separately to the east and west of Fırat. Once again, we call upon the government: Kurdistan MPs must be released. Only Turkey can be saved from this disgrace by being reflected in parliament by the people's will. Kurds reject this decision and strongly condemn it. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue my discussion now on the Ministry of Industry's budget. In Turkey, industrial distribution is unstable. Local-level studies are being conducted and there are no policies to improve industry in line with the potentials of the region, nor are permanent measures aimed at boosting the role and efficiency of small- and medium-scale businesses in the economy. That's why industrialization is growing into a monopoly, and this phenomenon is expanding the injustice of the income distribution. The monopoly in industry also leads to the destruction of nature and natural resources, the use of natural capital as private property in the interest of the equity owners. As rural development strategies are not developed in line with the economic potentials of the region, the resources of the laggard zones are being moved to metropolitan areas. Despite all the difficulties that have survived so far, the factories have been shut down, and livestock and agriculture have been undermined by increasing input prices. The natural resources of the Black Sea, Interior Anatolia, Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions are not used for their needs. Thousands of villages in these areas are still without electricity. These areas have been colonised by metropoliss and industrialised regions, while the region has the opportunity to open up millions of jobs, with its own resources and businesses in the fields of livestock and agriculture. The villagers were cut off from production and made cheap labor resources in the metropolitan area. At the same time, the lack of effective economic policies for the development of production and trade in urban areas is increasing the difference between economic development in eastern and southeast regions and western regions. Regional inequality also applies to the eastern Black Sea and the inner Anatolian regions and some Aegean and Mediterranean provinces. Precious lawmakers, with economic policies being implemented in Turkey, the internal initiative is quickly lost, the economy's control is being left to global financial environments, and the external dependency rate is increasing every day because strategic and large-scale enterprises, which can be considered the locomotive of industry, have been rapidly privatised, fixed capital investments have also dropped. In an effort to speed public withdrawal from the economic area, KİT investments have been cut off. Imported funding has increased with new industrial models. With the ongoing economic policies, the current account deficit was an average of $1.3 billion from the second half of the 1990s, while in the first eight months of 2013 it reached 44 billion 293 million dollars. Turkey's foreign debt supply, which was $129.6 billion in 2002, continues to grow every year. In the second quarter of 2013, the debt stock rose to $367.3 billion. Importing of raw materials used in industrial arms for exports increased by 60 per cent in 2002, while exports were dependent on increasing imports, while exports increased by 70 per cent in 2012. According to data from the National State Report for the province, prepared by the Industrial General Directorate in 2012, 71 per cent of industrial businesses are gathered in 12 districts. About 31 per cent of these businesses are clustered in İstanbul, 2 per cent in Bursa, and 7 per cent in Ankara, and 5 per cent in İzmir. According to the same report, the distribution of total industrial enterprises to regions has been described as 48 per cent, the Central Anatolian Region as 17 per cent, the Aegean Region as 14 per cent, the Mediterranean Region as 8 per cent, the Black Sea Region as 6,5 per cent, East Anatolian Region as 2 per cent.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0583par0131	So Kurdistan makes 7% total.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0582par0132	In this picture, unstable condensations between regions appear within the region itself. It is seen to have collapsed in certain provinces. Special measures for resolving intergalactic economic differences must be taken, given the specific conditions of the region, in areas lacking in areas such as raw materials, energy, capital, technical labor force, transportation, and market space. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the industry inventory that will provide significant data in the production of industrial strategy is still incomplete. Although in 2008 the Minister of Industry gave the good news of working on this issue, inventory was still not done. Today, one of the main elements of a country's economy's ability to compete in the international market is no doubt a well-functioning intellectual property system. There's no law against brands yet. We know that the legal laws guaranteeing the right to brand are the provisions of Code 556. The brand, the patent, was intended to secure the right to industrial intellectual property within the framework of law enforcement...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0136	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0582par0137	...but while there are criminal and economic sanctions for the protection of brands, this legal arrangement says that it hasn't been done enough yet, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0139	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0141	Wait a minute... Congressman, even if I were to consider what you just said on the stand within the scope of the immunity of the law, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will represent the nation, not the district where they were elected, or the people who elected themselves; we all say, "We are Turkish MPs," and thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0144	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0147	According to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey is a national and unitary state. There is no political authority on this land but the authority of the Republic of Turkey. I want this on the record. But my regret is that the two ministers of the Republic of Turkey's government and the political majority...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0148	Don't accuse anyone, Mr. Korkmaz. Tell them what you think.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0149	I'd like to ask the Justice and Development Party to record these facts.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0150	Tell me what you think, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0151	Yeah, that's what we think. Let them explain their own thoughts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0152	As the Court, we decided to say what I said here, among ourselves, and we said what we said. We reminded them of the Constitution's judgment. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0154	Mr. President, I object to you too. Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0155	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0156	The government can answer my objection, and the AKP Group can answer it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0157	He's standing, Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0158	You can't express an opinion there that opposes my opinion.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0159	I'm not against it, I'm just trying to keep order, I'm doing it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0160	No, sir, that's not what you're doing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0161	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0585par0162	You certainly sound like the party's side, like the party's deputy leader of the Justice and Development Party. There's the government, there's the AKP Group, they can defend themselves.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0586par0163	If you'll excuse us, we'll answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0164	He's standing, however, Mr. Korkmaz, Deputy Director of the Group. I made my statement as Court, and you did it, and now I'm going to listen to Mr. Aydın. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0587par0166	Let them do the explaining.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0584par0167	We're applying the procedure, please... Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0587par0169	No, it's not the procedure.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0588par0171	Mr. President, of course, if they'll excuse us, we'll file the statements as well. For one thing, our Constitution has very clear provisions. Rather than being elected, each MP represents the whole of Turkey. Therefore, each MP, each elected MP, is a member of the Turkish Parliament, even if he is elected from another province.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0589par0173	Then why isn't Amed MP Hatip Dicle a member of the Turkish Parliament?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0588par0174	Besides, I'd like to point out that it's not right to describe the provinces in that way. Again, in the same way, Mr. Prime Minister uses the word "Kurdistan" in the squares, and then he keeps the MPs inside. For one thing, it's the judges who make the decisions. We have never... of course, in the process of their candidacy, we have stated that a prisoner should not be nominated, or if the judge decides tomorrow, everyone must respect the decision of the court. It's the independent judiciary's decision, but at the point where lawmakers, of course, continue as prisoners, we're not enthusiastic at this point, but it's the decision of the judiciary, it's not a political decision.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0590par0176	It's a political decision!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0591par0177	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0592par0178	Sir, the government must have an explanation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0593par0179	Again, in the same way, our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0592par0180	Mr. Secretary of Defense must have an explanation, especially.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0594par0181	Mr. Korkmaz, if you'll excuse me, I'll run the coven, if you'll excuse me!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0592par0182	Sir, we, the National Movement Party Group, expect a statement from the Turkish Armed Forces' political representative, the Minister of National Defence.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0594par0183	And if the government doesn't say anything about it when it comes to it, then you do your criticism, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0595par0184	Mr. President, Mr. Korkmaz is not the vice president of the group. You wouldn't let a friend of ours stand up and fight back.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0596par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0594par0186	I didn't. He made a statement, Mr. Pervin Buldan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0595par0187	Then don't. Why is he talking?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0594par0188	I remind him of the way, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0595par0189	Mr. Korkmaz is no vice president of the group, but...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0597par0190	I'm the band manager.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0594par0191	Mr. Buldan, I remind you of the procedure, please, enough!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0598par0192	Mr. President... Mr. President, if I may... [[Continue]] ÜNMI, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY BANK [[Continue]] 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management 2014 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Final Account for 2012 I) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Ministry of Defence 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2012 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0599par0226	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, the second speaker is Özdal Threeer, Van MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0600par0229	Mr. Secretary, why haven't you made a statement? Why don't you explain, sir? Now was the time. We know when to talk. Oh, yeah? I also know how to talk. You will object, for the record. Come on, I'm waiting, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0235	I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of TÜBA and TÜBITAK, and I salute the General Assembly. I want to warn you why they were so reactive before entering corruption, corruption in the budget of TÜBA (TÜBİTAK), before entering the national capital that was squandered there, when they were called a parliament with such national sensibilities, why they were so reactive to the history of the first constituent Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0602par0237	You're not giving the right information there.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0603par0238	You're having a boat fight.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0239	If there had been no Kurdistan mebuses at the time, if there had not been Kurdistanns at Erzurum Congress, there would not have been this Parliament today.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0602par0240	There was Kurdistan back then, there was the Ottomans.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0604par0241	You don't want to eat grapes, you want to beat up the lace.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0242	Sometimes, some things... if after that, the rulers of the system hadn't sent those mebuses to the gallows, it wouldn't have happened today.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0605par0243	Brother, those who are there are under the state of the Republic of Turkey, and now you're trying to separate them!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0244	Why doesn't this Parliament see what sufferings the exile of Mehmet Akif Ersoy as a national poet?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0605par0245	There's no way you're in the same philosophy as him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0606par0246	You say the same thing as the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0247	Why was the late Mehmet Akif Ersoy not even cured in Istanbul, and why was he banished from here in 1926, the poet who wrote the national poem? As to whether it is Kurdistan or not, the simple scientific reality of 2 times 2 is as simple as 4 of mankind in the history of the world, ignoring a geography, a country, is only unscientific, irrational.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0606par0248	Yes, you say the same thing as the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0249	Kurdistan is our home, our ancestral home, a country where we live together in peace, on the basis of democratic unity; the north is Kurdistan, the south is Kurdistan, and the west is Kurdistan, and the east is Kurdistan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0607par0250	They're all within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, sir! Don't look at them as they deceive you, don't believe what the Prime Minister says.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0251	With the people of Iran in East Kurdistan, with the people of Iraq in South Kurdistan, with the people of Syria in Western Kurdistan, with the people of Northern Kurdistan, with the people of Turkey in a democratic way.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0608par0252	How many will you hurt with whom?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0253	...deputies of a struggle for freedom on the basis of brotherly living...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0609par0254	Constitutional crime.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0255	...Van MP Kemal Aktaş, who was also elected from Van, is Turkish MP Kemal Aktaş, who was elected from both Kurdistan and Turkey, Mr. Hatip Dicle who was elected from Amed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0610par0256	Tell me the boundaries, tell me the boundaries! Where do the borders go?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0257	Mr. Ibrahim Ayhan, chosen from Ruha, Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız from Şırnak...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0611par0259	Mr. President, constitutional offense, constitutional.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0612par0260	Mr. President, you must intervene now. You can't allow so much insult to the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0601par0261	... Mr Selma River, elected from Şırnak...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0611par0262	Mr. President, this is a constitutional offense, you're watching from there!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0613par0263	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Interfer!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0614par0264	This is Mr. Speaker of Turkey, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0615par0265	... and Gülser Yıldırım from Mardin...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0616par0266	You can't allow this kind of insult, Mr. President, please intervene. Shut him up!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0615par0267	They're not insults, they're reality, they're scientific reality.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0617par0268	Constitutional crime.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0618par0269	There is no insult, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0619par0270	Shut him up! He insults Turkish people, insults Kurds in the east.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0620par0271	Those who consider this scientific fact an insult to themselves...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0621par0272	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0620par0273	...please move with your mind, with your tongue...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0621par0274	Mr. Speaker, if you'll excuse me. I'll shut you up, please, I'll intervene.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0620par0275	...please let him act on his conscience.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0622par0276	Constitutional crime.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0621par0277	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0620par0278	Then stop my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0621par0280	Yeah, that's gonna stop it, of course. Members of parliament, according to Article 3 of the Constitution, the state of Turkey represents an indivisible integrity with its country and its nation. I just told you, we are MPs of Turkey, not of a region of Turkey. When we began our duties as MPs, we took this oath, sworn to the Constitution that we would stick to loyalty. I remind you again of the 80th article of the Constitution, and I ask you to please pay attention to your speech.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0620par0282	The same Constitution...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0623par0283	There's nothing indivisible about it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0624par0284	You left the Constitution in the middle!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0625par0285	You left the Constitution!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0626par0286	Mr. President, if you're talking about loyalty to the Constitution, it's the same Constitution that gives Parliament the authority to build a new constitution. So, how do you make a new constitution? It comes at the suggestion of a group of parliamentary groups or parliamentarians or a number of lawmakers. Are all articles in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution? Yeah. The first 3 articles are in the way of the constitutional proposal. Those who think that the first 3 articles cannot be changed must then evaluate our demand for the amendment of the 4th article. If the Constitutional Commission has so far imposed its singleness, Turkishness, in this country, from Albanians, from Çerkek, from Uzbek.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0627par0288	Divide and count! You sound just like the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0625par0289	Never mind, speak for yourself, for yourself.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0626par0290	...from Tatar, from Kurd, from Çanakkale, if everyone has given their lives together, for freedom, this Parliament will do something today.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0627par0292	You sound just like the Prime Minister! Split as many as you can!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0628par0293	Mr. Speaker, please... please, watch your language.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0629par0294	You speak to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0630par0295	I'm talking to the General Assembly, Mr. President. Please record that I'm being threatened on the stand right now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0628par0296	You're not being threatened.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0631par0297	No one's threatening you, bro!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0632par0298	Don't be a hypocrite!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0631par0299	Watch what you're saying, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0632par0300	You're threatening this place!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0633par0301	No, no threats, please. There are no threats.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0634par0302	If the parliamentarians who speak here are being threatened...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0633par0304	No threats. Congressmans, please do not interfere with the speaker, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0635par0306	Mr. President, he's threatening our unity and unity.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0636par0307	... There is a situation in this country where children, young people, college students, political party executives, think about it. TUBA, Turkish Academy of Sciences, how far from science.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0637par0309	Does TTUBA also have Kurdistan?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0636par0310	Now, its reality, its purpose is to do scientific studies. Their activities include organizing scholarships, support and award programmes, developing scientific programmes, building projects and working groups, developing international relations. So, I ask the parliamentarians, which one of you knows who TUBA is giving a scholarship to? Which one of you knows who the TUBA is supporting? Which one of you knows who the TUBA gave the prize to?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0638par0312	You tell us, we'll find out. We're not as knowledgeable as you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0639par0313	It's like a lecturer from a illiterate man!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0636par0314	What reward, what reward, how many millions have been spent, how many millions have been spent? How much national capital has been spent on whom, and who has been pursued? If it's national, if it's national...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0639par0315	We can't learn from illiterates! You're talking big! What am I gonna learn from you, brother? Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0640par0316	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0641par0317	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0318	If it's national values, it's the national fortune that's been destroyed in TÜBA, question it, take it over the budget. Now, while overseeing these budgets, he will investigate the trust of the Court...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0643par0320	Tell me who he gave it to. Tell me, who did he give it to? You said a lot of things, didn't say anything.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0321	I mean, you smell meat, you salt it, it smells of salt, what do you do? In this case... how many millions have been spent by the TUBA? There's no telling who got the reward, who got the scholarship, who got the support. But he's writing a report on the Court, saying that everything was in place. Well, did he give you any numbers? No. Then how can we trust the Court? Isn't the Court an institution that should serve all citizens of this state? Exactly. Well, to the Court reports on TÜBITAK... this time the Court did its job. In 31 articles, the Court's budget for ÜBİTİTAK has also submitted 31 declarations in 31 articles that the 2012 budget is not in accordance with the law, that it is not in accordance with regulations, and that the expenditures found here in billions are being made unregistered, uncontrollable and irregular. So, what have these billions been in, whose pockets are they in? In Turkey, then, why isn't Turkish consciousness, national capital consciousness being questioned here? Both the government and opposition parties are responsible today for not questioning this budget in this way. Tens of thousands of families are homeless and homeless today in Van. Not only the Vans, but the victims of the earthquake in Kütahya Simav are still homeless, and the ones in Istanbul are still homeless. And in this country, while Turkish and Kurdish and poor are being miserable, groups associated with capital and international capital are moving millions, then there's no talking about national values. Within the borders of this country are Adanan, Vanlı, Kütahian, İstanbuln, Izmirli, Kurd, Turk, Laz, Çerkez, Abhaz, and 40 nations in this geography.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0644par0323	Do you have to say something ethnic? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0324	Can the children of these 40 nations account for the billions of institutions that will not be questioned because they have children frozen at minus 20 degrees in Van?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0645par0325	Know you're talking! If you know you're talking, you're talking!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0646par0326	There's nothing we can't pay for, I'm sorry! We've paid for everything, we'll pay for it!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0327	Look, in the last three years, it's been spent by $5 billion,300 million, but it's not known where it's gone. Five billion, 300 million, you split it for $40. 40 lira, why? Because despite the amount of accounts that the TOKI (TİKI) has inflated, the maximum cost of a family's minimum housing is 38 lira; and let's think about some private needs of TOKI authorities, 40 lira. Do you know how much he makes when you split it for $40? It makes 17,500 houses, and if the billions spent on this TÜBİTAK have been controlled, the people, Sakarya! and the people who did literature and flew billions would have been able to build the home of 14,000 earthquake victims whose dwellings had been destroyed today, the problems of people who had not been built in Kütahya Simav for over 20 years, even though their homes had been destroyed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0647par0328	Well, we agree on that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0329	If we're talking about unity, democratic unity will benefit all of us. The Kurds must be free, the Turks must be free, in this geography, in this country all languages must be free, all thoughts must be free, all philosophy must be free, all religions must be free.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0648par0330	How could he be more free?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0331	In the name of humanity, if anyone who carries a human identity can live in this country equally and freely, then it is possible to talk about a great, democratic Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0649par0332	Take a look at the report!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0333	In a free Kurdistan, it is possible to see the way to a democratic Turkish union. If Kurdistan is not liberated, if Lazistan is not liberated, there is no talking about the democratic Turkish union. My respects.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0650par0335	What the hell are you talking about? We're going to build democratic Turkey, democratic Turkey, and we're already trying to take it to the next level. In spite of you, we will ensure this democracy.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0642par0336	Democratic Turkey flies 5 billion!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0651par0337	Thank you. Mr. Buldan, I'd like to give you some information. You have just had an objection to Mr. Nevzat's speech. Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz has the authority to represent the National Party of Action in accordance with information given to the Court.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0652par0339	Mr. President, from now on, when we make a promise of our place, we'll inform you whether he runs the group or manages it, and then our friends will get a say in it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0651par0340	We've been given this information before, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0653par0341	When there are no group presidents, the group manager talks. Don't you know that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0651par0342	The third speaker is Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0654par0346	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. Today, about our arrested MPs, Diyarbakır 5. The High Criminal Court has ruled to dismiss the eviction requests. This decision is a decision that defies the right to democratic politics and the will of the people. You can see the tradition of democracy and justice of the state of Turkey in this decision. Our arrested MPs, Mr. Hatip Dicle, Mr. İbrahim Ayhan, Mr. Selma River, Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldı, Mr. Kemal Aktaş and Mr. Gülser Yıldırım have not yet understood what this rejection was given for. Because a decision made in İstanbul is separate, a decision made in Diyarbakır. And I'd like to offer it to you. For thirty years, there has been an unjust, unlawful, unclean war on the grounds of the authority of Alan in this country. They brag about what they're doing for the so-called state of law. The Kurdish people's democratic demands have been left to rot with martial law, extraordinary circumstances, administrative courts, state security courts, private courts, false records, military courts, and prisons. Some security practices have been cited as grounds for the evacuation of 4,000 villages, while 6 million people have been forced to migrate west. 60,000 people died in this low-density war. 17,500 people went to an unsolved murder. If you examine the tradition of state and democracy in Turkey, you can see this picture. Therefore, the greatest handicap in the non-democratic republic is, of course, militarism, military imposition, the thought of weakness. In this sense, military bureaucracy has blocked reforms. The coup on May 27, 1960, March 12, 1971, in the coup d'état of September 12, 1980, eventually saw the people as a pack. Turkish Armed Forces' psychological movement strategy: I know it. In democratic countries, the army speaks moderately and is even advised to be dumb. Politicians should be decisive in political and social matters. For years, they have been negative in solving the Kurdish problem because they set the boundaries, and now it is said that they support the solution process. JITEM, Special War Office, Gladio, they've concealed or denied its existence for years. While world states and peoples quickly became democratic, Turkish politicians tried or watched from afar. Because the military's militant attitude was an understanding that made his citizen an enemy. In this respect, the Turkish Armed Forces have always seen Turks as an army, not as a nation; they view Turks as a warrior nation. However, it is the institutions and rules that determine the limits of common life, the text of social reconciliation. A constitution that participates in democracies, pluralist, liberal, egalitarian is a guarantee of social peace. This country has been governed by the Constitution of the coup for 40 years. Different parts of society want a new democratic constitution built, and they never want a patched constitution, so everyone had to make an effort for a new constitution. If the General Staff had been connected to the Ministry of National Defence, it would have been possible to democratize this Constitution, but Parliament would have solved the problems and answered the people's democratic demands. This Parliament, which is the power of change, could first remove the threshold of this election so that the free will of the people would be revealed; the understanding of status quo, monogamy, monogamous custody, limiting basic rights and freedoms, would be eliminated. Turkey, according to other countries in the world, is increasing its budget for war every year. Turkey is among the most armed countries in the world. In addition to the central budget, billions of funds are being transferred to the Ministry of National Defence from public institutions and organisations to the foundation, the association. In 2013, we can only show that the AK PARTY demand for war has increased by 7 per cent in the central management budget. This budget, prepared by the EC PARTY government, continues to rob, reduce people, put them out of work, darken Turkey's future. This budget business is not a budget that creates excess. Mr. President, the National Defense Department's budget has doubled during the AK PARTI period. In addition to new arms deals, military projects, and spending on them each year, at the same time, inept foreign policies that can now be seen by everyone when they're bankrupt these days, are simply precious loneliness, which is his summary. This traumatic state of the EC PARTI government in foreign politics is also an expression of the isolation of the Rojava Kurdistan today and of ignoring the Kurdish people's revolution in Rojava, and of resisting not knowing them. Because of the civil war in Syria, Turkey's political stances and actions in Syria, aiding gangs such as Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra, ISIS in many areas such as weapons, food, health care, opening border crossings to terrorist groups such as these, and setting up headquarters on Turkey's border are endangering Turkey's lives and the lives of people living in the region. The most obvious example of this: do any of you know the number of citizens killed by Syria by bombings in the settlements near Turkey's border area? The Turkish-Suriye border, established by the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923 with the Treaty of Ankara 1921, is a picture of Kurdish geography being torn apart by sovereign forces. However, a recent period of time has been revealed in practice, where these boundaries are artificial boundaries. The Kurds, as a people surrounded by fences, proved their existence at every opportunity. The borders that divided the Kurdish geography at the border with Turkey and Syria were a reflection of fear. And that is because in order to separate the Kurds, a huge buffer zone was created, not only pulled from the fences at the border, but also created a mined zone. Thousands of Kurds have been killed by mines buried on the border while trying to meet their relatives on the other side of the border or trying to trade borders, and these mines continue to ruin the lives of people who live on the border. Today, there are 982,000 mines underground. In Turkey, there are nearly 100 cases each year due to these mines. Hundreds of children have died because of mines and unexploded military ammunition. However, there is no action authority or action centre in Turkey yet. However, Turkey had signed the Ottawa Convention in 2003, so that by March 1, 2008, it would have destroyed the mines in the stocks and wiped out land mines by 2014, and it would not have done so until now. From 2007 to today, there was no serious cleaning of buried mines. Stop cleaning mines, and the wall of shame between Qamislo and Nusaybin is an attempt to protect mines. Turkey also commits crimes against this behavior according to international law. No right, no law, no conscience can allow this wall to be built. The world's walls of this kind have always fallen to the pages of history as a wall of shame. As we know, we have been going through a process for a year that we can call the solution process. During this process, not a single soldier, not a single guerrilla, had a nosebleed. We know those who don't like it, we know those who can't take it, but we say: "O Turkish mother of Turkey, pay attention to this assembly, listen carefully to what is said, and then make a decision. This, of course, is a very positive development. Our party has always defended peace, and today it is making every effort to ensure peace, to continue the solution process. On the other hand, when we look at it, the state continues its preparations for war at full speed. The most concrete indicator of this is already active military activity in the region. He still builds outposts, let alone outposts, castles. So, in this peace process, what are these goalkeepers, these outposts, these activities? The conflict may have stopped in the process of resolution today, but it is known to everyone what kind of war the Turkish Armed Forces have recently waged. Because there are claims that 20 A.R.G.K.s died in 1999 using chemical weapons in the Kazan Valley. Of course, it is imperative that the commission to investigate the facts is set up. The Turkish Armed Forces have committed war crimes many times. With random bombings, many weapons of war are scattered everywhere. We hear of the death of Kurdish children every year because of scattered ammunition. Hence, dozens of children have died from these explosions. But it's clear that the Turkish Armed Forces, the Ministry of National Defense, they've never dealt with these problems. As a solution to such problems, the Ministry of National Defence is also avoiding becoming a reassuring institution because it has not attempted any solutions. Otherwise, the money to be transferred to this institution will continue to be blood and tears to this country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, another structural issue of the Turkish Armed Forces is mandatory military service. In no country that completes its democratic development in the world, you will not find a condition called forced military service. Forced military service has returned to the persecution of a citizen of the state. However, these young people, who exceed the majority in society, don't refer to military service as anything other than a necessity, but unfortunately, the government ignores the request of its citizens. But what should happen in democracies should be based on the demands and demands of the people. It is clear in Turkey that people do not want to go to the army. As of 2013, the presence of nearly 400,000 people on the run is a version of how people don't like military service in this country. The roll call and administrative fines of the baccarats are gradually up to 22,000, starting with at least $296. It's important to all of us that the removal of mandatory military service is important. The most important step to do so is the constitutional guarantee of conscientious rejection.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0655par0367	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0654par0368	Well, I hereby salute everyone with respect.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0655par0370	The fourth and final speaker is Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP. Here you go, 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0373	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with respect and love. We're gonna have to put up with each other. You talk about the immunity of this bench, we don't have to think like you do. And no one has the right to Gemmize the geographical terms. We're talking about a reality. Therefore, you will respect our thoughts, and you will not threaten us, nor nod at us, nor show us your teeth, nor your nails, nor your claws, nor will we submit to them. You must endure us as much as we tolerate you. Mr. President, dear friends, we're discussing an important budget, we're discussing the national Defense Ministry budget, we're talking about a budget that has taken a lion's share from the founding of the republic so far. It's an unmanageable budget. This budget doesn't account. The actors of this budget are actors who form states within the state in this country, actors who form cities within cities. They have seen themselves above Parliament, and when the time and place has come, they have made a revolution. When the time and place came, this Parliament set up commissions and wanted to invite them here. Come on, who are you? How can we come? Because they have guns, uniforms, and the will of the people. They're just sitting there, disturbed by the civil authorities. When we drink in the moonlight, let's make a coup tonight and call it "Moonlight." They're sitting somewhere, a blonde has passed by, so let's do the blow of the blonde.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0657par0376	Yellow girl...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0377	The yellow girl, whatever. Now, we're discussing the budget of such an institution. In the 2011 budget, when I was speaking about this institution again, I made an emphasis on the violence of the war, and I shared with you the memories of an American veteran in the Vietnam War, and he says, "You go to a village where a thousand-pound bomb was dropped on it. You don't have a problem with taking prisoners because there's no one left to take prisoners with you. You don't know if the people who were killed are Vietnamese, and you don't know if they're human. And we went through this kind of violence, and we couldn't say anything at the time, and then we turned around, and the war was over, and we went home, and we couldn't look at our kids. ▪ I performed this here in the budget on December 13, 2011. What was I supposed to know? Fifteen days later, on my land, the fighter planes of this country will take off and destroy 34 people in Roboski. This is the violence of Roboski, which is what is in Vietnam. In fact, we knew, we knew our government, we knew his past. How do we know you? We know it from the burning of 3500 villages. How do we know about you? From the pain we know, and from the lesson we know. How do we know you? We also know that 33 innocent Kurds were shot in Zilan. How do we know you, how do we know you? The year is 1994 and the warplanes are taking off, and in a village near Roboski, in the village of Asparadar in Şırnak, and Kokoğeli in the village of Kokoğeli, 38 villagers are being torn to pieces, and the Prime Minister of the period says that these planes are not the planes of this state. The Minister of Interior says he killed 150 Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) members by organising air operations. At that time, the Chief of Staff Wrestling and Ciller duo said that the bombs were accidentally dropped because the straps on the planes were loose. A few months ago, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey to 2 million 305,000 euros. We know our government. So, maybe the government learned from here, and we thought he'd never do anything like that again, but we were wrong. The planes in Vietnam and the bombs there were destroyed as well as the people in Roboski, and a mother said: "My son was six feet tall. I put my son's broken body in a bag, and there was meat of mules in it, and I took it, and I buried it. This is the kind of country that we live in, we have this kind of pain, we have this kind of pain, and you still do us no justice. Now, I turn around, and I ask you, my dear friends, this land has paid very heavy prices, this land... look, this institution we're talking about, they've gone with their uniform and their gun on it, they've burned 3500 villages, they've gone and burned people alive. For whom, for which law? They did all this and you know what they did? They didn't have any duties. They took all of the state's institutions into their own monopoly and they were leaving, they were trading, they were raising their salaries, they were pensions when they retired, they were getting $70,000 from someone who retired from the State Department. The state, the country, whatever it was, it was all falling behind. We're not enemies of any institution, but if an institution goes outside the law, if an institution goes illegal, we'll stand up to it. I'm not saying that today. Some of the AKP's friends from time to time say that we're democratizing and you're being so bold. Well, it's 1991, 1992, 1993; this brother of yours, I asked the same question in Parliament: what is OYAK? Where are you from? You'll answer to us. I've been threatened: we'll kill him. We owe a God, we don't give in to anyone else, and then they arrested us and our friends, our MPs, and we've lost our legislatures, but life has confirmed us. Now, in this land where we come from, we're going to say stop against segregating policies in the process. Just like Prime Minister Davos said he did, wait a minute. We call you guys one minute. These policies make us rebel, these policies don't bring peace, they keep the war going. And we call you those who practice these persecution policies,................................................................................ Look, today, our friends...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0658par0382	You're agitating!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0383	Look, don't talk, don't listen to me, don't talk!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0658par0384	Oh, come on, you're agitating here! You're agitating! And tell me about the 33 soldiers who died in Bingol.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0659par0385	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0386	My dear brother, 33 soldiers...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0658par0387	Tell me about thousands of fallen soldiers, you always say the same thing!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0388	33 soldiers...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0660par0389	Politics is an agitation, and when are you going to learn that this is how it is, that you've reached this age?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0390	All 33 soldiers are my pain.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0661par0391	Tell me about them!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0392	All 33 of my soldiers... (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0661par0394	Not one-sided, not one-sided!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0395	Please, Mr. President, please... 33 soldiers...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0661par0397	Not one-sided!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0398	Look, not at your place.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0661par0399	It's not one-sided!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0662par0400	Mr. Lightning, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0401	Look, you have a lack of information that you don't even understand your president. Look, your group vice president just...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0661par0402	Thousands of citizens have been martyred.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0656par0403	Will you please shut up! That's enough! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0661par0404	There are thousands of martyrs in every city! We're listening to the same things!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0663par0405	Mr. Orator... Mr. Lightning, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0664par0407	Shut him up...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0663par0408	Mr. Lightning, please!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0665par0409	We always listen to the same things, the same things over and over...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0663par0410	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0666par0411	You'll listen, you'll listen, you'll listen to the same things!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0665par0412	I won't listen!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0666par0413	You'll listen to the same things as long as this problem isn't solved!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0667par0414	If you're not listening, get out!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0665par0415	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0668par0416	If you're not listening, get out of here, you can't mess this place up!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0669par0417	Mr. Orator, please continue.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0670par0418	Now, Mr. President, look, in Diyarbakir today, if my dear friends, the army, the judiciary, the media and institutions in this country are in a brutal war against the Kurds, you'll get criticism from us too. Look, if the trial in Diyarbakır today is contesting the judiciary in İstanbul, if the Constitutional Court is ruling that there is no verdict, you can't come back here and lecture me about law and justice. The court in Istanbul is releasing Balbay the white Turk, but it opposes the removal of Kurdish lawmakers' arrest demands. Why does it hurt? You don't even know it, so don't talk to me!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0671par0419	Look at you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0672par0420	Mr. Secret, address the General Assembly, if you have the answer, he'll give it to you from the stand!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0670par0421	Here, if his army, his judgment, his media are on the side of this, we'll go out and expose them. Look, dear friends, the media criticizes us every day, they don't even tolerate a little criticism, they try to shoot us. Bring it on, hit it! But I'm speaking to you, those pencilheads, to those scoundrels: Have you ever written a line about Roboski, have you ever written a line about the BDP MPs, where can you fit today's lawlessness? Now, if such illegality exists, do not expect a very discreet speech from the BDP people. If the trial in İstanbul is different, the trial in Diyarbakır is different, you cannot answer for it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0673par0425	Their values differ.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0670par0426	Especially if you're talking about a compromise, a dialogue, a negotiation process, that law and justice have to be equal, that's what it means. Since different laws are being enforced for Kurdish children and Kurdish people, today you will expect nothing different from Kurds, Kurds, Kurds. Today's court in Diyarbakır is a law of war, a law of hostility. Look, your group vice president turns around and says, "Well, the independence of the judge, I'm asking you, what does your vice president in charge of the media say? Humanitarian, who makes a conscientious statement, says that in Istanbul, the law can't be different, in Diyarbakir, we shouldn't be in the double standard. We remind you of these things. Think about it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0674par0428	Mr. Sakık, just like that, if you say Kurds, Kurds, that's where the real racism is. It's not fair...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0675par0429	Don't insult the speaker, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0670par0430	All right, let's take it backwards. So, what is the trial in today's Diyarbakır province for, and for whom is the decision made in Diyarbakır? It's for the Kurds. And look back to the Republic, until today... Look, my dear brothers, I believe today that if you eliminate all of this in the name of your special court of law, whatever it is that's being done in the name of God, the trade courts in Turkey will be enough to execute us, as long as it's called Kurttt, as long as it's called... [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Look, you have nothing to say against today's decision. If you're defending this, then we don't have anything to talk about.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0676par0435	Don't force the defense.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0670par0436	So, what... you say -- you say -- that's like Hussein Steel. Yeah, that's a segregation policy, that's unfair, that's illegal.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0676par0437	We'll tell him when the word comes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0670par0438	When? We will wait for you, the MPs who have been in prison for many years, are the nation without conditions. We will wait for years, and the term will end, and one day you will be gracious, and you will return: The law has done wrong in this matter. I call it a conscience, a conscience! Dear friends, my dear brothers, we are no one's enemy, no one's enemy of any institution. It's because all injustice and unlawfulness is applied to the double standard in that institution, in this institution. (x) Some words were expressed in a non-English language by the Hajip in this chapter. I watched a trial the other day. Look, 20 years ago, nine people were torn apart and burned and security forces surrounded that village. There's a lawsuit in 20 years. I'm there. A captain who was in fact involved there today, the colonel, turns around and says to the court... they were caught red-handed. The head of the court says you were there. When these houses were burned down, what did you do when these people were burned alive? He's facing a mission like this, think about it! And that's to go out and make fun of our pain. Twenty years later, this case is being filed, and these people responsible for the death of nine people are walking out of the courtroom like me, but in this country, the people who are protesting against the PLO can come out and arrest people who want to study without money. That's the kind of judgment we're facing, that's what we're dealing with. The reason why our voices sound so loud is because we're being outlawed. We want to create the country of law and peace. We leave you with the law on your conscience.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0444	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0678par0445	Mr. President, sir, I'd like to file a matter.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0446	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0678par0449	It's the PKK terror organization that massacres Turkish nationals, Kurdish brothers in the east, kills them, kills children in arson, kills women. The main enemy is PKK terrorist organization, and PKK terrorist organisation is an international pawn, a servant of imperialism. As the Nationalist Movement Party, I would like to say that the fight against terrorism by the Turkish Armed Forces, which advocates the unity and integrity of the Turkish nation, is a legitimate, legal and political legitimacy.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0451	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0452	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0680par0453	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0454	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0455	Mr. President, Mr. Sakk specifically pointed to me in his speech, trying to put a different meaning into what I said about the arrested BDP MPs. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0457	About what, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0458	By pointing at me about the arrested MPs, the court has ruled...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0459	He didn't say anything different.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0460	He said it, he said it. The deputy president of the group said, "He used the wrong expression.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0677par0461	All right, here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0465	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, dear friends, of course, in this country of 76 million, our joys and our sorrows share, and I am one of the people who believe in it, and we are all together in this country. Since this country's entire process of founding, even when it has set foot in Anatolia, we have built this land together since 1071, we have defended it together, we have built the republic together, and we have fought side by side with each other. So we definitely need to tell segregation policies to stick together. But let's not use a separative language. We all have to respect this country's institutions, its boards, its rules, and in 76 million, we all need to embrace each other. What happened, when we lived together for a thousand years, what happened to this brotherhood, who caused it to become like this? It shouldn't have happened, you shouldn't have had any problems. If, on the basis of citizenship, if we can look at the issue, if we can really look at it, if we can really empathize, we can all be much happier in this country, there's no reason why we shouldn't be. And that is why, at the point of solving this terrorism problem, everyone must be absolutely supportive, everyone with common sense has to be supportive, everyone with common sense has to be supportive. Terror needs to end, our problems need to be discussed in democratic channels.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0681par0469	Do you have any idea about the lawmakers who haven't been released?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0470	Now, dear friends, I didn't say it was the right decision about the arrested MPs.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0682par0471	You said we should respect the decision of the judge.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0472	It's just a political decision. You said, you tried to put it into politics. This decision is not a political decision. (BDP rows) Yes, it's a judgment call, but it's a controversial decision, I agree. It's a controversial decision, it's a judgment, the verdict can be discussed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0683par0473	It's the Prime Minister who's got the prosecutors on the move, the judge who's making the decision.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0474	Yes, if Mustafa Balbay could be released, the other MPs would have to be released, as a lawyer, and so would I.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0684par0475	Say it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0685par0476	Mr. President, you've set up these special courts.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0679par0477	But when I say it, it's the right thing to say, it's the judgment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If prisoners can be released through the individual application process brought by the Constitutional Court by the EC PARTY again, they can also be given to them.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0481	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Sakek wanted a word. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. Wait, I don't get it, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Sakik, I'm sorry, why did you take your word?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0687par0484	I mean, where did all the murders come from?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0485	But the Peace and Democracy Party didn't take its name. PKK...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0688par0486	No, sir, I told you about the PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0689par0487	No, false information...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0489	Mr. Sakık, I didn't promise you, please take your seat.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0688par0490	Mr. President, you can't, Mr. President, the PKK's terrorist organization... you can't...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0491	Mr. Sakik, I didn't call you to the stand. I'll take you this way, please. Because I don't know why you're on the stand, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0688par0492	You can't, you can't! No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0690par0493	Roboski is the policeman who slaughtered children in Roboski, burned people alive, the military, the police of the state... put a bullet in young people's heads.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0494	Why don't you sit down? Mr. Sakık, look...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0691par0496	I've performed it on this stand a few times before.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0497	May I take your place, please? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0691par0498	I'm here, but I want your word.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0499	No, you asked for word, you came to the stand before I listened to you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0691par0500	I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0501	That's what I'm trying to say. What do you want, what do you say?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0691par0502	Sir said the PKK was the source of all the murders. I've submitted dozens of parliamentary research motions from the past to the present, so let's all look into this together; whoever, wherever, whatever murders... I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0505	But you already did. Look, the National Movement Party, as the enemy, didn't say a word about the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. Sakik, just said it was the PKK.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0691par0507	He answered my speech.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0692par0508	He said the facts were distorted, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0686par0509	No, he never said, he never said.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0692par0510	Is that all right? Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0693par0511	Mr. President, the PKK is a terrorist organization, in the first place slaughtering Kurdish people from the east and southeast, that's clear and clear.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0694par0513	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0514	I'm not listening to you, I'm not listening to you, I'm not listening to you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0694par0515	Roboski...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0516	I'm not listening, please sit down.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0694par0517	It was the official planes of the state that did the Roboski massacre, and the state is a terrorist organization. Now, there's no need for anyone to carry the terror of the state here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0518	Mr. Sakık, I must promise you that Mr. Vural has not said anything about the Peace and Democracy Party. The terrorist came from the PKK. He said. If you're taking this on, if you're looking at it as a tease, then be my guest.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0696par0519	Sir, Mr. President, how can you give it to me if you think it's a tease?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0697par0520	Yeah, how's that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0521	Let's see what Mr. Vural has to say.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0696par0522	I mean, have a heart! Mr. President, it's a terrible thing for you to promise me something like this! The PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0697par0523	Mr. President doesn't take credit for what he said, said he gave false information.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0524	Mr. Vural, if he's taking over, I'll have to listen to his answer. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0696par0525	Sir, no, you can't promise, you're not doing it right. Does the Justice and Development Party not view PKK as a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0526	I told you, e, I said that. I did, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0696par0527	How? Do you force it or force it? You don't give it to us when we want it, but what do they do with it?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0528	Well, I did, but Sakık's right to say...... is to tease me.... he says.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0698par0529	Does he need your permission? Do I need your permission to talk while I'm talking?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0696par0530	The PKK is a terrorist organization. The PKK is a terrorist organization that has killed people of Turkish origin.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0531	Mr. Vural, Mr. Sakek has made a promise not because you said so, but because it was a taunt.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0699par0532	About what?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0696par0533	Yeah, about what, no questions, no teasing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0534	He's saying it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0700par0535	Is he going to ask your permission, or is the president going to ask your permission?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0695par0536	Please, don't interfere in my business, I beg you. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. I've explained my thoughts about this, so please sit down and restart the time. Mr. President, I don't think there's just any bullying against the BDP Group. Everyone knows the PKK is a terrorist organization, and everyone knows it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0701par0541	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't speak affliction, and I don't speak in circles. There's news in dozens of newspapers you've been able to find recently. He's making confessions. The soldiers who joined the war in Vietnam, and then went and couldn't look their children in the eye, are now coming out one by one, saying: "Look, we were village burning troops, we were going, we were burning villages, and these are the ones that we went and burned down.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0702par0542	Tell me today's statement from the governor of Şırnak Sýrý Bey. These villages were burned, these uniforms went and burned them, weren't these uniforms? Look, what was Teoman buried in the ground today? I'll tell you this, loud and clear...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0703par0544	Mr. Secretary, please respond, you are the Government of the Republic of Turkey and Minister of National Defence!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0702par0545	He'll answer, and he'll finish his speech.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0704par0546	Look who's sitting next to you!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0703par0547	We can't accept that kind of zulu.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0705par0548	Mr. Vural, the ministers are capable of knowing where and when to speak, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0706par0549	He manages you, he manages the Minister...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0707par0550	Are you their lawyer?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0708par0551	We don't accept persecution. Let's go!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0552	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0553	Mr. President, I've already...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0554	There you go. Okay, time to pass. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0555	It's over. Again, please, Mr. President. Mr. President, would you please go back to the beginning, something we couldn't talk about?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0556	No, you did, Mr. Sakık, he disappeared for 15 to 20 seconds. Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0557	Mr. President, please take it. I have something important to say.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0558	I can't take the time right now.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0559	If you don't get it, then...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0560	But you did, Mr. Sakık.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0561	Then let's get Vural's approval.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0562	Okay, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0563	Whatever Vural says when we get on the stand...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0709par0564	Okay, wait a minute, I'll give you another minute. Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0710par0566	Dear friends, look, a general was buried today. This general was in Yassuada in 1960, where he claimed to have slapped Adnan Menderes, who was elected by the people's votes in Yassıada, and he claims to have insulted Adnan Menderes. This general has dozens of crimes against the public, if I count them. I don't hold a grudge against his family, his colleagues. And you go out today and say, "Mahkemeikubra." You say, "The owner of the court has granted you power, has given you judgment, has given you the will of the people, and has given you the will of the people." But if you don't judge, take it, fifty-three years later, after death, you will not be able to transfer the court to the curb and escape." The court's attorney invites you: "Come, come, come, you too, from aiding. For fifty-three years, you watched such events. Here, let's put together a parliamentary research motion in the last 20 years of what's been going on in this country. Wherever the PKK has committed crimes, wherever the state has committed crimes, wherever the police have committed crimes, let's take them out together and build our peace together. I'm not saying everyone's a pyrup, but I'm saying whoever has sinned in this process should answer to this people, and I'm not saying anything different. Why are you reacting to this?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0711par0571	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0712par0572	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0711par0573	I'll make a promise to Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay. He's been raising his hand for a while.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0713par0576	Shall I give you my reason? I mean, after all the talk, I can just say it. Mr. Sakık, in a way that he does not deserve to approach our Izmir MP...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0714par0578	No, I did an irony in that sense.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0715par0579	Two minutes before you make a fool out of it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0716par0582	Mr. President, members of parliament, Mr. Sakık....about Mr. Mustafa Ali Balbay....our İzmir MP, Mr. Mustafa Ali Balbay.. He's the most affected by the persecution of long imprisonment, Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0717par0583	Mr. Engin, we're glad they're here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0718par0584	But you misunderstand me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0716par0585	Please listen.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0718par0586	Don't yell, you got it wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0719par0587	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0716par0588	And when Mr. Balbay came out, he was left half inside, and when the other MPs were inside, he said, "I don't think I got out."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0720par0589	We want Mr. Balbay. And all of the other MPs to be released, no matter what party.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0716par0590	I don't think it makes much sense to have an understanding like that of a friend who said that I would not feel completely free until all prisoners, prisoners, who have been subjected to the process of long imprisonment, have been freed.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0720par0591	If the AKP MPs were arrested, we would also oppose him.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0716par0592	Because when Mr. Haberal came up with the same concept, I'd like to point out.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0720par0593	We're very pleased with Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0716par0594	Another mistake made by the party spokesman of the ruling party, the speaker here made. Do not speak of the dead behind their backs, for there is a religious order. It did not befit Huseyin Çelik, nor did it befit Mr. Sakik. He's dead and gone. On the other hand, in 34 seconds, I can't explain the Republican People's Party's view of the debate here. However, I want to emphasize one thing: Turkey has a Kurdish problem, everyone will know that, but Turkey also has a terror problem, a terrorist organization problem, and that's how everyone will know. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0598	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0722par0599	Terror is one thing, rebellion is another. Go and ask the scientists.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0600	Mr. President, Mr. Ahmet Aydın speaking on behalf of the AK Party Group has taunted our group by expressing that we use a segregated language.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0601	He never meant the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0602	No, why didn't he?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0603	He addressed the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0604	No, he used a separatist language. He said, and he meant our party, and he blamed it on it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0724par0605	I didn't say that, Mr. President, that's a general statement.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0606	He didn't say anything about the party, so I listened very well. He used a hugger's tongue.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0607	No...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0608	Let's all act like brothers. He said, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0609	While you were running the Presidential Court, you also brought charges against the indivisible integrity of the country mentioned in the Constitution, and we didn't say anything.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0610	This is not an accusation; this is a decree of the Constitution. It's not a charge. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0611	We need to make a statement about this.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0721par0612	It's not an accusation at all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0613	We don't use segregated language. We're not operating on the indivisible integrity you're talking about. I want to explain this.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0725par0614	Mr. President, I haven't had the slightest trouble with the BDP Group. I mean, no, it's not like that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0615	Why are you so afraid of BDP's speech? You're being sarcastic, and we'll answer.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0725par0616	I used a general expression. I said everyone watch your language, your language.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0726par0617	Mr. Baluken, you've said what you wanted to say. Look, it's 11:00 in the morning, and we're here a long time.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0618	Aren't we going to talk about eleven o'clock at night, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0726par0619	Mr. Sýpýk told me, Mr. Sýpýk explained, I promised once again. Please, I'm waiting for your understanding.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0620	Mr. President, here...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0726par0621	Please. Look, I'm asking you...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0723par0622	Look, we're using a segregated language for our party group...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0726par0623	Go ahead and talk about it. I promise you for a minute. Please sit down, I promise you for a minute. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0727par0624	Mr. President, I'd like to exercise my right to speak.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0728par0625	Mr. President, I'm very happy to have Mustafa Balbay.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0726par0626	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0728par0627	I hugged him, I said welcome. I made an irony, but you got it wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0726par0628	Okay, Mr. Sakek, it's on the record, friends can read it. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0729par0632	Mr. President, your attitude is not correct. Our group has been bullied, and you need to give us a say there. Now, we don't divide the country, we don't use a segregation language, we say Kurdish and Kurdistan on the stand. On the contrary, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we say that the policies that remove denial, destruction, assimilation are policies that unite and enhancing this country. Look, a normal painting sits slowly in this House. A member of parliament gave a speech at the parliament session the other day, where an Arabic Koran-i Kerim verse was read, a poem in Kurdish, and the words "Kürt" and "Kurdistan" were used. That's what's normal. When you normally show us what's abnormal, you'll be putting a mortgage on our will here. Therefore, the House must remove this issue from a divisional paranoia as soon as possible. Everyone gets goose bumps when our friends use their original names about the settlements, the names that haven't been changed. However, a year ago, when we called it "Tillo," the same reaction came to light when we called it "Norshin" (or "Norshin"). No one can determine how the Peace and Democracy Party should speak here, what terminology they should use. You've released the opposition, and now you're trying to determine which mold we should speak to on the stand, which is not true. The understanding that divides this country is the mindset that our friends have expressed since the very moment that Mr. Balbay is pleased with the evacuation of Mr. Haberal. But even though their decision to evacuate is a precedent, the Constitutional Court has decided to leave our fellow prisoners inside. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's how all the MPs in the House...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0730par0636	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0729par0637	He wants her to see it, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0730par0638	Two minutes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0731par0639	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0730par0640	Here you go, Mr. Vural. [[Noises in BDP rows]] Guys, please, let's put a stop to this, okay? Everyone said their thoughts, and now we're back. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0732par0644	Mr. President, I've expressed a terrorist organization of the PKK, and I'd like to say that you have made a promise to me because there's been a bullying about it. I say again, the PKK is a terrorist organization and a narco terrorist organization, a terrorist organization that traffics drugs and people and murders innocent children in the east and southeast.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0733par0646	President, I object to that, not the agenda.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0734par0647	That's what you think.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0732par0648	No one will be able to change that fact, so let everyone know that.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0733par0649	I thought the PKK wasn't a terrorist organization, that it came as a Kurdistan Workers' Party.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0735par0650	Please take your seat. I didn't promise you, Mr. Threeer, please... take your seat.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0733par0651	I'm proud to be a member of the Kurdistan Workers' Party...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0736par0652	We won't, we won't. PKK terror organization is a pawn. It's a tool that uses our Kurdish brothers and sisters.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0733par0653	State in Diyarbakır prisons...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0736par0655	The PKK is a terrorist organisation and is also a terrorist organization that traffics drugs.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0733par0656	He does nothing but defend himself.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit06spe0737par0657	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0737par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] ÜNMI, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY BANK [[Continue]] 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Management 2014 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Final Account for 2012 I) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Ministry of Defence 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2012 Central Management Final Account Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, we'll begin group talks from the Justice and Development Party. First speaker Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Gaziantep MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0738par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in 2014. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, trust and stability bring economic power. This is made up of strong politics and stability. The economic depression in the world and especially in Europe has clearly demonstrated the value and importance of the competitiveness of Turkey with its ability to produce. Today we can see much better the distance that Turkey's Turkish industry has reached, as it has begun with a new era of sectoral strategy documents designed to increase its science and technology capacity and its road map. Industrial Strategy Document and Action Plan took Turkish industry from low-tech level to medium-tech level, and our industry's goal is now advanced technology. The goal of Turkey's brand and patent registration has increased by 448 per cent in the last ten years, its application for the brand for more than 110k over the past three years in Europe has reached 7.3 billion euros in RD spending, the increase of RD expenditures to national revenues in the last ten years, and our goal of reaching a level of 3 per cent in the world by 2023 is to reach the number of enterprises that have received the AR-G document from the past 2008-2012 to the number of companies that have reached 7.3 billion euros. In recent years Turkey has been talking about branding, innovation, nanotechnology, intelligent industrial products. Our Anatolian cities began to brand and form innovation valleys. With the support of our ministry, industrial attraction centers began to form in many Asian cities such as Gaziantep, Denizli, Kayseri, Adana, Conium. I find that the I.T. Valley Project, which is important for the future of Turkey's industrial strategy, is very important, and the results are the commercialisation of information with the public, industrial and university cooperation of SAN-TEZ project supports, the discovery of value-industrial products, and the results of that. More than a thousand college graduates with the support of the Technological Entrance Capital have established their own work with this support, increasing the importance of support and encouragement to the AR-GE. When we have two techno parks in 2002, it gives us hope for the future that we have 52 techno parks today, 37 of which are active. In addition to the land allocation of the new incentive system to the OSB, the increased support given to the infrastructure, the fact that he is very interested in key problems, such as infrastructure problems, the development of employment for new OSBs is very important by our Ministry. I find the cumulative work, the competitiveness and efficiency to be extremely important in terms of an exponential effect. Dear lawmakers, the level the Turkish industry has reached, the successful results it has achieved are crucial to our country's future. We are the largest production center in the world's most important geography, and we show it to the world in every industrial product we export high-quality Turkish product. Today, we are the third largest bus maker, largest cement exporter and refrigerator manufacturer in Turkey, the third in the world in the production of ceramics, the third in the production of steel, the European second in ready clothes and television exports. Turkey's SAN-TEZ and techno-park initiatives are now beginning to run with drones, various software, infrared cameras, new generation armored vehicles, domestic navigation, RASAT and TKTÜRK-2 as the satellite of ECTÜRK-3 is being activated. With all of this, I wish our Ministry's 2014 budget to be blessed and fortunate, with a much larger Turkey wish for branding, innovation, and RD. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0739par0050	Thank you. Second speaker Dilek Yüksel, Slap Congressman... Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0740par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the 2014 budget of our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, are providing a healthy distribution of industry in our country with the implementation of industrial sites, organised industrial areas and industrial areas. In the last 11 years, the construction of a total of 153 organised industrial areas projects has been completed and we have submitted them to the service of our industrialists. Our ministry has established five organised industrial sites in the province of Tokat, Erbaa, Niksar, Turhal, Zile. In addition, the construction of 54 business-access industrial sites is under way in our Yeşilyurt district. The construction of techno parks established within our University of Tokat Gaziosmanpaşa continues with our Minister, who, hopefully, will be opening with our Minister in January 2014. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about our highly skilled children, a subject that has entered our Ministry's practice. Unfortunately, no practice has ever been made in this regard, except for the scientific arts centers and the study of our nation's Ministry of Education, which have been a lost treasure for many years. As a result of the work of our Supreme Talented Children Research Commission established in our parliament, our Ministry will open three new schools in our provinces of Ankara, Istanbul and İzmir, within the scope of TÜBITAK. I hope the future scientists will be able to win Nobel Prizes in these schools. We congratulate our Minister, who has taken action for our children, the greatest wealth of our country, and we expect the same sensitivity from all our ministers and institutions. Dear lawmakers, during our government, we sent six Turkish satellites into space and produced almost all of these satellites in Turkey. We've launched a 100 percent domestic source and technology-generated SECTÜRK-2 satellite into space. It's interesting that when we see people protesting this historic and flattering event, even turning it into an illegal demonstration, we see again and again the struggles of those who don't want something good to happen in this country, those who don't want it to happen, those who are uncomfortable, those who fear the nation to become stronger. Instead of having the pride of being one of the 25 countries in the world that can make their own satellite satellite launch, how much do the masked demonstrators and those who support these illegal demonstrations, who are planning to raid the hall where the university's satellite launch ceremony is being watched? How can all these beautiful developments be protested by those who claim to love this country? While the whole world is living in the age of science, as we go to the moon, it can't be explained by science, technology, or any form of expression that our nation has been left behind for years. Members of lawmakers, in our time of power, we have taken steps to facilitate the lives of 76 million people in science, industry and technology, to move our country further ahead, to the level of complex civilizations; we have not replaced any member of our people; we have brought together not only the beliefs of our people, the hearts of our people, the hearts of our human rights and freedoms, but we have strengthened them -- not by the law of the elite, but by the rule of law -- but by bringing together the hearts of our nation, not just the continents and communications technologies, but by bringing together the hearts of 76 million peoples and hearts of our human rights and freedoms. As we serve our country and our nation, as we send our native satellite into space, we will send to Istanbul the third bridge, the airport, Kanal Istanbul, Marmaray, our nuclear power plant, while our exports, industry production and therefore employment and individual income, and at this exact point, our nation will also appreciate and evaluate the rising of the indigestion in the polls. As I end my words, he wishes our 2014 budget was a blessing, thanking our Minister and his colleagues, especially our Prime Minister, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0741par0062	Thank you. The third speaker is Omar Faruk Öz, Malatya MP. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0742par0067	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in 2014. I hereby salute your high council. The principal elements of economic growth, competitiveness, and sustainable socioeconomic development are science, industry and technology. The ministry has prepared strategic action plans and road maps in all areas from automotive to machine, iron steel to electric electronics, textile and ready clothing, leather products from shipbuilding to food industry in order to ensure the development of existing infrastructure in our country in the fields of science, industry and technology, in order to boost our competitiveness in all sectors. This policy has performed numerous services primarily within the framework of strategy and programmes, at the point of accelerating the transformation process to the information community, at the point of creating a secure and sustainable, environmentally sensitive production structure aimed at reducing external dependency based on high-velocity, advanced technology. The study of science and technology-based industrialisation and the resolving of regional development differences has gained momentum, especially for organised industrial areas and industrial sites. More than half of the organised industrial zones currently in operation in our country have been carried out during our time of power. In addition, 448 industrial sites have been completed in infrastructure and exponential work. For example, in two organised industrial areas in Malatya, my constituency area, from food products to chemical products, a total of 278 businesses are employing around 15,000 jobs. The number of jobs will increase by twice as much once the purchases are completed. In addition to the 330 square feet of land set up on 8 million square metres, studies of our third organised industrial zone have also reached the final point. The infrastructure tender for the 1,700,000 square metres of land here took place last July, and the allocations were completed for the area. Dear lawmakers, 52 techno parks have been established at the point of expanding our universities and industrial co-operation to ensure that our investors make maximum use of the resources of universities. Today around 2,500 companies operate in technology development areas, and exports are about to reach 900 million. Again, the Technology Development Area was completed with an investment of about 8 trillion dollars in Malatya's university campus drinking. In the techno park, around 20 RD firms have already started their activities. With the right of $700,000 to be sent by our ministry, the need for financing will be complete. At the point of the launch of our techno park, I want to thank Mr. Nihat Ergün, our minister, who is very interested in the project and has his support. Precious lawmakers, as you can see, have traveled considerable distances from low-tech level to middle-tech level in a short period of ten years. Our export numbers exceeded 155 billion dollars, thanks to these practices that took place during the AK PARTY rule. In addition to increasing the share of high-tech products in our exports, there is also support for strengthening established sectors such as machinery and automotive; at the point of accelerating sectors such as IT, electronics, health and medicine. I'd like to make a suggestion that he might be able to support RD activities. There are patent applications for millions of inventions around the world every year. These patents have been copyrighted and protected for 20 years. I would like to ask the Turkish Patent Institute to guide local producers to benefit from these discoveries over the past 20 years. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby wish the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and the budget of the Republic of Turkey for 2014 to be a blessing to our country, to our ministries, and to your great delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0743par0077	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Zeki Aygün, MP of Kopeeli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0744par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 2014 budget of the President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration, known as KOSGEB. I salute you all. At the beginning of our government's successful work, the rise in economic prosperity. In addition to economic and scientific developments, support programmes have gained a great deal of interest and interest in our citizens' entrepreneurial and innovation. In particular, with support, grants and attractive credit opportunities, led by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, both our SMEs and entrepreneurs have had great opportunities and have reflected them in our economy. In particular, KOSGEB has become a traveling companion of the KOBI, not only financially but also with our businesses through educational and guidance activities. In 1990, KOSGEB, established by Law 3624, was founded to increase the proportion and efficiency of the KOBI and social needs of the country, boost competitiveness, increase their share in economic and social development. The SMEs represent more than 99 per cent of our country's businesses and 78 per cent of total employment. At the same time, they have played an important role in the development of our country with the total value of rates in exports and rates in total investments. In this regard, supporting the SMEs is vital to the country's economy. Therefore, during the EC PARTY, the target mass of SME support has been expanded to include the service and trade sector. By the end of 2008, the number of businesses registered in the COSGEB database reached 725k as of December 2013. COSGEB offers not only the SMEs, but attractive support opportunities for our country's distinguished entrepreneurs, such as 30,000 Turkish lira grants and up to 70,000 TL. Dear lawmakers, entrepreneurial culture should not be viewed only as supporting by giving money. Conscious entrepreneurs are also essential to prevent waste and false investments in the economy. For this purpose, in 2010, the new generation of entrepreneurial projects under the Applied Enterprise Education Programme were introduced to about 200,000 entrepreneurial training. Nearly 10,000 entrepreneurs have benefited from the new entrepreneur's support to start their own business. In addition, KOSGEB has pioneered the establishment of the Enterprise Council to ensure that strategies can be created and implemented by gathering under a roof the work for the development of entrepreneurship in our country. Today, branding and institutionalization issues are still a big problem for our businesses. In this regard, KOSGEB provides professional management, education, and guidance to the SMEs. As of 2013, KOSGEB, AR-GE operates seven support programmes, including innovation and industrial application support programmes and cooperation, power union and support programmes. With the successful results of all these studies, our government's export policies have played a crucial role in the Middle East, Central Asia and African markets. The foreign trade of developed countries in the 2008-09 world economic crisis affected 45 per cent, while our country has been affected by the average 27 per cent, which has once again shown the importance of SMEs. On behalf of my people, I would like to thank Mr. Nihat Ergün, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr. Nihat Ergun, and KOSGEB, for their successful work, led by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and its vision. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0745par0090	Thank you. The fifth speaker is İbrahim Halil Mazcıoğlu, Gaziantep MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0746par0094	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, in the eleventh round of the 2014 fiscal year budget bill talks, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the budget of the Institute of Turkish Standards, which operates as the relevant organisation of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. I salute you all with love and respect. First of all, I'd like to thank our Finance Minister, Mr. Mehmet Simsek, our ministers, bureaucrats, Plan Budget Commission President and members, all public bureaucracy, who have been involved in drafting the 2014 fiscal year budget. Dear friends, the Institute of Turkish Standards, founded in 1954 only as a small unit to follow international standards, is now an institution that takes active positions in international Standardization pennies, fills eyes with widespread organization in domestic and abroad, and focuss on a structure that can provide testing, examination, information services in all areas our business world needs. Today, the TSE is the key to the production of high-quality, international-standard goods and services of the country's industry at less cost. Not only in the national sector, but also in international markets, especially in neighbouring and environmental countries, has it achieved a preferred, respected brand value. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are planning to invest about $400m in new labs with 18 experimental labs that have international additions to 10 locations as of today. The point of these laboratory investments is that our industrialists will now be able to conduct tests that they have to do abroad by paying millions of dollars. In this way, the transfer of national resources to foreign documentation agencies will be blocked and our local manufacturers will save time and resources. One of the steps that the TSE is making to our country is in the European Quality Organization, the leading European quality institution in the past month. The European Quality Agency has decided to implement the quality documentation model developed by the TSE (TSE) in member countries. Thus, for the first time, Turkey exported a quality documenting model to European countries. Each document of these countries will also be charged per document by the TSE. There's one thing in our country that's not been focused on enough, it's not understood, but it's very important to the country's economies, the standardization. According to OECD reports, standards and technical regulations have an 80 per cent impact on world trade. Thus, the countries that are active in the process of determining standard and technical regulations are also the countries that govern world trade. With the awareness that the world's economic war has turned into a battle of standards, Turkey has also increased its efficiency in decision-making mechanisms of international and regional standards institutions, thanks to new steps towards Turkey becoming a country that is not only adapting to standards, but a country that sets standards. This is a very important development that gives the Turkish industrialist a say in the preparation and acceptance of European standards. I'm running out of time, and I want to say how much I miss my Gaziantep, which I haven't been able to go for seven days. [[Smiles, applause from the lines of the AK PARTY]] At this hour, I offer my love and respect to all our representatives and fellow citizens of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0747par0105	Thank you. The sixth speaker is Mr. Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0748par0109	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2014 budget of the Turkish Patent Institute's presidency. I salute the General Assembly. As we begin with my words, I'd like to make a brief discussion of the history of test ownership. The beginning of the provisions for the financial property is based on the Constitutional institution of the 13th and 14th centuries. Unlike the guild system in the West, the secular system is based on invention and enhancing innovation. The brand and patent laws adopted in the 19th century are also one of the oldest testing property laws in Europe. The 1871 Alameti Farika Order and the 1879 Law on Determination are the basis for legal protection on brands and patents. In the early years of the Republic, our country sided with the Paris Convention, which was adopted as the constitution of the world's idea property system, in 1925. The adoption of Mark 551 Law in 1965 and participation in the World's Fictional Property Association Agreement in 1976 are among the major steps in the field of testing property protection in our country. One of the most remarkable results of scientific and technological advances that have gained great speed in the world in recent years has been the economic and industrial importance of testing property rights. It is extremely important to monitor developments recorded on the national and international level in this area, since test property is not only a subject that affects the rights holders, but it affects all parts of society. At this point, the Turkish Patent Institute certainly has important tasks. Our country is a country that understands the necessity to produce innovative products, to develop original designs, to transform these innovations, innovations, designs, economic and social value, employment, prosperity. Projects, structural solutions produced and permanent mechanisms that have been implemented in the field of testing property over the past 11 years have clearly shown this awareness. In parallel with our country's economic development, there have been significant increases in testing applications for the brand, patent and design. In 2002, the number of brand applications amounted to 36,000 in 2013, up to 110,000 in 2013, up to 22,000 in design, and the number of patents and useful models with 3,000 in them increased to 15,000. The 2013 report, published recently by the United Nations World Fikri Property Agency, shows remarkable data on our country's behalf in order to make clear the distance our country has taken in this area over the past 11 years. Turkey has risen from two digits in patents, brands and design applications from the previous year to the seventh place in the world. In this ranking, only the People's Republic of China, Japan, the United States, Germany, South Korea and France have managed to leave behind important countries in the field of intellectual property, such as our country, Italy, Britain, India, Brazil, Russia and Spain. When we look at the rankings made for each component of tested property, we see that Turkey is ranked in the 15th place in patent applications around the world, the 7th in useful model applications, the 6th in brand applications, and the 4th in design applications. As it turns out, our country today has a testing property system that operates effectively where we come from, and produces serious patents, brands, designs. In 2013, the Turkish Patent Institute expanded the scope of online application services in order to conduct its registration activities quickly and effectively in the face of rapidly increasing testing property applications, taking very important steps to develop institutional capacity by providing patent and brand expert employment. Mr. President, as I end my words here, I sincerely wish that the 2014 budget be good for our country, for our nation and for the Turkish Patent Institute.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0749par0119	Thank you. The seventh speaker is Omar Selvi, Nüğde MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0750par0123	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the financial budget of TÜBITAK. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. In our world of intense global competition, it is possible for a country to have a say, you know, the knowledge and the technology it produces. In this respect, one of the most important areas for our country to achieve its 2023 goals is the field of science and technology. Because every step we move forward on science and technology will take us much higher in other areas. Our government, which is conscious and understanding, is deeply concerned about the activities of science and technology culture in society and the activities of TÜBİTAK (TBİTAK) working to form RD policies. The source for the field of science and technology has been set aside over the past 11 years, far above the source provided in the previous 40 years. The proportion of the TÜBİTAK budget to the Council budget in 2012 increased by more than 5 floors today, and the 2014 TÜBITAK budget will be estimated at $1 billion,890m Turkish lira. Of course, when we look at the 2012 budget, about 102 million Turkish liras are about 19 times higher. This is one of the most important indicators of our governments' importance to RD activities, science and technology by the EC PARTY governments. Of course, here, on this occasion, TUBITAK operates in many areas, but I'd like to share with you what he has done in the field of RD alone. In the academic area of AR-GE, TÜBITAK has transferred 233m Turkish liras for only 7.330 per 2013 for fixed prices from 1964 to 2003, followed by 40 years since its establishment, but at the time of our government, between 2005 and 2012, the total of 9.635 projects was supported by about $1 billion,630 million Turkish dollars, with fixed prices of 2013. Again, interesting information: the support provided in the first 11 months of 2013 as part of academic R&D activities again is $235m of Turkish lira, and that number is more than the first 40 years of support. Again, TÜBITAK has provided serious support for RD activities in the private sector, along with academic RD activities. Again, between 1995 and 2002, a total of 363.7 million Turkish liras supported only 1,146 projects, but in the period of our rule, from 2003 to 2013 to 2013, it increased to about 9 times that number, about 3.27 billion Turkish dollars were supported for the 8,190 project. Of course, what was the result of these RD studies? Turkey's RD spending rate has doubled in 2012, compared to 2000. Of course, compared to 2000 to 2012, our national income has also increased to about 4 times, in fact, RD spending has increased to about 8 times in 2012 in Turkey, compared to 2000. On the other hand, of course, that's why, thanks to these RD studies, we're now producing a lot of advanced technology products that we've already imported with local resources, and our outside dependency is reduced in this context. I'd like to give some examples in this context, just, and I'd just like to give an example of the defence industry. In fact, TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) has many fields of work, successful activities. I'd just like to give you examples that most people don't know about, except for what is known in the defense industry, of drones, of our national ships, of our tanks, of our rifles. For example, the sensitive guidance kit that makes classical general purpose bombs smart and allows them to hit so delicately, which we've already imported before, we're now producing with domestic possibilities. Again, production technology is the first influx in the world with heat batteries in only five countries that are used to power weapons systems, and the first and only one aircraft bomb in the world, and the missile fuel that we produce in accordance with international standards -- these are important examples. As we look at the point where we are today in science and technology as a result of our government's importance, it seems that we have achieved great achievements that each member of us will be proud of. I wish our last so-called budget would be a blessing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit07spe0751par0135	Thank you. I'd like to invite the members of the group to the back room. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0751par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The Commission and the Government are here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0752par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0753par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0751par0006	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement. Members of parliament, when reviewing the minutes of a debate in the last session, Van MP Özdal Triger has been assessed by our presidency that the 160th Article of the Interior Charter was hurtful under the third bell. Therefore, according to Article 163, I will ask the General Assembly to give him the punishment of reproach.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0754par0010	Mr. President, there's no way...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0755par0011	Mr. President, our party group has an explanation for this matter, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0754par0012	Sir, I explained our position inside. Therefore, I have stated that the MP in this matter is not a terrorist organization, and that I would ask you to act as our group in the 161th Article of the Interior Charter, which states that he is proud to be a member of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, to legitimize or incite people to illegal action during the talks, to legitimize a terrorist organization and to encourage it to support this terrorist organization. As a nationalist movement party, I declare that these statements are in accordance with the Fourth Amendment of our Interior Charter 161, that the act of incitement and provocation has been carried out, and that it would be appropriate for the presidential court to present its views to the groups in this regard to this action.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0014	I'll get your opinion from the groups.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0757par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0016	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0757par0017	Mr. President, right now, a speech from the General Assembly from the bench is not in question, not in place, not in the microphone. In the parliament, the words used by Mr. Özdal Threeer were reflected in the report during a tension here and a fight afterwards. We feel that these words do not require the criminal sanctions mentioned by Mr. Oktay Vural. Mr. Oktay Vural can define PKK differently when describing it; he can describe it differently when describing any other MP. There's no talk, nothing, that calls the people to revolt, rebellion. There's a saying from our congressman, which states a belonging, which was spent during a fight, which was spent during a tension. Therefore, such punishment is not appropriate.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0758par0020	Sir, the PKK is an illegal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0021	Mr. Vural, let's hear the bands.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0758par0022	I say it because they mention my name.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0023	Mr. Vural, if I may, we have your attention.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0758par0024	It's illegal to legitimize something that's illegal, it's obvious to provoke and encourage people.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0025	I heard you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0758par0026	But you need to act the way we talked inside.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0027	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0758par0028	I mean, we agree on the inside, and then you use your initiative differently. That's not true.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0756par0029	We couldn't agree on the inside, Mr. Vural. Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0759par0031	Mr. President, I'm afraid there's been no agreement inside. As our EC PARTY group, it is not possible for us to acknowledge the actions of a terrorist organization, the PKK terrorist group, who has accepted violence, terrorism, blood and death as a solution in the face of a problem. The PKK has been a terrorist organisation and has been able to resolve violence and terrorism in solving a problem for 25 years. It's a fact that can't be discussed by anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0760par0032	That's what the AK PARTY group thinks.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0759par0033	But here we are, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, guardians of the Constitution and of the law. We are not responsible for being emotional; we are responsible for acting rationally; we are responsible for fulfilling the requirement of the Constitution's executive provisions. We, the AK PARTY Group, never accept the words expressed here, we disapprove, we condemn, and we stand by the presidential Court's decision and attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0761par0036	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Özdal Threeer said one wrong thing today, one true thing. He is telling the truth: I am proud to be a member of the PKK. He feels like a PKK man, that's none of my business. What he said was wrong is that the PKK is not a terrorist organization. He said, "This is wrong." PKK is a terrorist organization, a bloody terrorist organization. To encourage, encourage the PKK to be praised in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0039	That's what you think. The PKK is a result, not a reason.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0764par0040	Mr. Baluken, please be respectful. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0041	...we, the Republican People's Party, no doubt...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0042	Not everyone has to think like you. You're not talking like you're talking in here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0043	I talked about the same thing in there. We'll take the PKK...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0044	That's not what you said.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0045	I also said on the stand that the PKK is a terrorist organization. We've been saying this all along, and everybody knows it. Mr. Özdal Threeer said the PKK is not a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0046	He might.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0047	I think it's wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0048	He might. You say that, he says different.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0049	Sir, I think it's wrong, I think it's wrong!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0050	Not everyone has to think like you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0051	I don't think so.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0765par0052	Mr. Baluken, please don't interfere. We're trying to solve a problem, please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0763par0053	Not everyone has to think like you. If we thought the same, we'd be in the same place.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0762par0054	PKK should not be allowed to be praised in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. However, there are certain reasons why Mr. Özdal Trier would have the courage to say so in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If the government conducts a weekly routine meeting with the leader of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) which established the PKK (PKK), both Özdal Threeer and the PKK will say so. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A criminal sanction is required by our group. Our group condemns Mr. Özdal Threeer. A reprimand is appropriate. If there is to be a temporary suspension from parliament, the government meeting with Abdullah Ocalan must be temporarily removed from the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0766par0060	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0767par0061	You're bleeding!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0062	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0769par0063	Mr. President, I want to make a point.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0064	I've heard enough, Mr. Vural. I promised everyone equally.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0769par0065	Sir, I have something to say. However, these statements were clearly expressed beyond the punishment of condemnation...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0067	I listened to you, Mr. Vural, I listened to you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0769par0068	It's against the law. I don't think it's right for the Justice and Development Party to just condemn it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0069	It's not a diversion. Congressmans, as I've just explained, as the Presidential Court, I have stated that the conduct of the MP has been included in the third quarter of Article 160. Therefore, according to Article 163, I submit to the General Assembly's proposal that he be condemned.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0072	Mr. Ozdal...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0073	Wait a second... While you were talking inside, both you and the lawmakers and the group's vice presidents said that despite our inclusion, the testimony here complies with the warning penalty and conforms to the Article of the Civil Code concerning the warning penalty. It's just that the deputy chairman of the MPC has expressed a different opinion on this issue. And you came in here on a deal like this. Now, it's not right for you to put it here as a reprimand.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0075	Mr. Aydın, I give you my word.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0076	You should have stood up for what we talked about in there.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0077	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0078	You have to be honest, and the group vice presidents have to be honest.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0771par0079	Wait a minute... wait a minute... please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0768par0080	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0081	Both the AK PARTY and the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0771par0082	Yeah, we said "don't argue."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0083	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What did you say in there?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0771par0084	We said, "Don't blame me."
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0770par0085	How did you get out?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0772par0086	We talked about the law. We said no offense!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0773par0087	No, warning...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0088	Mr. Baluken, you can't accuse me of anything.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0772par0089	We said no offense!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0775par0090	Just a minute, please, we said, "Don't be mad," my friend!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0091	We didn't write this...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0776par0092	We said no warning, don't!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0093	Please...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0777par0094	No, look...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0095	I've got this article inside...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0777par0096	You can't talk differently in here and present differently. The group's vice presidents...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0097	We're not doing that, Mr. Baluken, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0778par0098	The warning has been called.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0099	No.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0778par0100	Mr. President, there will be a warning punishment. Didn't they say that?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0101	While we're doing this article inside...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0779par0102	We'll give you a warning. Didn't you say?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0103	Don't change the look on your face, you don't scare me.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0779par0105	You're yelling, we're yelling because you're yelling.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0106	It's not like we had an understanding in there when we wrote this article inside.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0780par0107	Mr. President, no one's scaring anyone, but a deputy here has a clear right to say, "I am this." This is immunity, if you call it immunity.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0108	I've listened to you, I've listened to the MHP, I've heard the CHP, I've heard the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0780par0109	Didn't we hear here, 100 times, I'll go to Ergenekon terror organization and sign it, I'll become a member.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0110	That's how our presidency sees it, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0781par0111	There was no agreement inside, Mr. President, there was no agreement!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0112	Now, according to Article 163, I have determined in the General Assembly that he should be given the punishment for condemning him. Will you be able to defend or defend?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0782par0113	We're protesting your attitude. We are protesting both the Presidential Court and three groups to silence the BDP.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0114	Are you going to plead?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0782par0115	In these budget talks, you're trying to silence BDP. Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0774par0116	I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0783par0118	They say goodbye to you one day.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0784par0119	Those mothers of soldiers will never forgive you. [[Walk from the lines of the AK PARTY!]] [[BDP MPs leave General Assembly Hall]] [[Continue]] ÜNMI, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY BANK [[Continue]] 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Final Account for 2012 I) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Ministry of Defence 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2012 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0785par0154	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party, we continue our group talks. In eighth place, Mr. Mustafa zucchini, Conium MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0786par0158	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2014 Turkish Academy of Sciences budget. I salute the High Council. Nations have a life moving from the past to the future. If a nation wants a strong and ambitious future, it must feed on the past. The Turkish nation is a nation that has always cared about information in its past. Our civilization, as in every field, has accepted an understanding of the benefit of mankind in every period of history. In harmony with this understanding, Harezmi (,) which has been considered the world's highest astronomy and mathematics scholar of the world throughout history, has earned the famous mechanic Abul Iz Al Jazeri, the founder of the systematic and methodological astronomy, the scholar of Birül, who has given major works in mathematics, philosophy and music, Farabi Τ, the author of the book of medicine, which has been taught as the most basic textbook in the medical departments of European universities for centuries. The AK PARTY government has aimed at meeting its people with the past and moving them into the future with stronger steps since its establishment, and has always given the importance of knowledge and science in the first place. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been among the important institutions in all countries to contribute effectively to the information society's transformation process. The Turkish Academy of Sciences, whose short name is TÜBA, has conducted many activities from its establishment to this day aimed at recognizing and adopting the importance of science by society, honoring our scientists and supporting them within the scope of possibilities. In the new era, the TÜBA also adopted a strategic approach based on the responsibility to assess differences as wealth, institutional continuity, and the responsibility to become a national academy. In this approach, Turkish science classics and the adaptations of these classics to children, the Children's Platform Project, the international Turkish science award, History and Ethimological Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkics have also carried out new programmes and projects such as Lugati. Mr. President, when we look at the programs and projects that were prominent for TÜBA in the 2014 budget proposal, the Awards for Superior Successful Young Scientists -- 294 young scientists so far have been rewarded -- the Scientific Telif and Translation Arts Program -- which is still awarded for 126 works so far -- continues to provide international Turkish science awards and research support. There are two scholarship programmes in Turkey that will help improve the scientific levels of their doctorate and post-science studies, where TÜBA has stood on top of the awards and support programmes. These are Integrated Ph.D. Programs and Post-D.D. Research Programs. The Science Education Programme, which TÜBA has been running for a long time, and the Dictionary of Turkish Science Terms, will be developed and continued in 2014. I would like to see TÜBA continue its activities by developing them in 2014. As I end my speech, I greet and greet all those who say, "Man is the foundation of mankind at the 740th memorial of the holy land, which is called the week in which we are. "
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0787par0165	Thank you. Smurf Ünal, Istanbul MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0788par0169	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party on the budget of our Ministry of National Defense bill in 2014. I hereby salute your high council. With an increase of 7.14 per cent, according to the 2013 budget, 21 billion 815 million and 196 million Turkish dollars were prepared for our national defence ministry's 2014 budget, a high capacity under our national security policy, and for the aims of improving our defence power according to the needs of the age. The basic principle that drives Turkey's national defence policy is the principle of the republic's founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear lawmakers, in accordance with our government's 2023 vision, our goal in national defense is to enter into the top ten major economies in the world, which have developed the defence industry. Our defence buys, which have been a heavy burden to our economy in the past, have been transformed into a huge added value for our country's industry and technology. 4 projects planned to be carried out by foreign contractors prior to the EC PARTI government were cancelled, and they were decided to be carried out in new ways based on our national industry in May 2004. So our today's Altay tank, our ATAK helicopter, the drone, our ANKA Project, and our national warships. On the other hand, the military ships and police boats, which are nearly 100 parts to our Navy and Coast Guard, were manufactured in Turkish shipbuilding sectors. Our fleet is on its way to total nationalization today. With new breakthroughs in frigates and submarines, this journey will continue. In the early years of the Republic, however, our current aviation breakthrough has been revived. After a 60-year break, our first national training aircraft, designed according to the European Aeronautic Authority Certification Rules, was launched this year. The first conceptual designs of our national fighter plane have been completed. A wide range of drones will continue to work. Our marine outpost planes, developed by the contributions of our national industry, are now under inventory this year. Air-report control, which means our AWACS planes will be operational within the next few months. All the armored vehicles of our ground forces, such as the hedgehog, are produced and produced in Turkey, including a brand-new vehicle that protects our soldiers from mines. The navigational missiles, the anti-tank missiles, the guided rockets were made by our own technology. Studies have been initiated to set up our satellite launch center. Our first national observation satellite, OKTÜRK-2, will be launched into space, will have high visual resolution, and will be launched in 2015 following the completion of integration and testing in Turkey next year. Our military surveillance and communications satellite systems will now be fully designed and produced in our country. The first test of HESAR missiles developed for low and mid-altitude air defences was successfully carried out at Salt Lake last month. For the first time in the history of the Republic, we hand over a national infantry rifle. Starting next year, the production of a modern infantry rifle using the latest technology will begin to distribute to troops. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is just the beginning. In the 100th year of our Republic, we plan to fly our national fighter plane, launch satellites designed in our country, produce our national submarine, and launch our long-range missiles. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, not five minutes, but the actions that we can't finish are being successfully carried out by our ministers, especially our Defense Industry Undersecretary and our relevant bureaucrats. I wish you all the best in the national Defense Department budget. Good night.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0789par0184	Thank you. The tenth speaker is Ismail Sun, Valedictorian. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0790par0188	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group in the 2014 budget of our national Defense Ministry. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. With the awareness of the new world order in the fight against today's threats, Turkey has increased its effectiveness in the global environment and strengthened its position of a country with regional initiative, with its national interests in line with appropriate policies and effective use of geopolitical resources. Our country, whose geopolitical and geostrategic position is open to multiple threats, has access to a military force capable of supporting national security policy, establishing and developing military power in accordance with the requirements of the era it will have, and developing it is the cornerstones of Turkey's defence policy and strategy. In this context, we are pleased to see that in terms of short, medium, long-term threat/rival assessments of the time we are in the Turkish Armed Forces, their capabilities are further developed in terms of quality and more modern, fire-powered and maneuverability to achieve a higher power. In international relations, there can be no constant friendship or hostility. Talking about freedom and freedom in the environment that dealers have determined is nothing more than fooling ourselves where, when, and who the weapons we're paying for will be used against them. Dear lawmakers, domestic production has been highly valued by this consciousness since the day we came to power. In the 1500s, our defence industry was 80 percent dependent when we came to power as a result of political and economic instability, when our country, which came from a country tradition that built its own gun and its own ship, was unable to keep up with technology in recent centuries. In defense, it's a very important weakness. With the work of public enterprises such as ASELSAN, ROKETSAN, Machine Chemical Industries, and our private sector, Turkey's first warship MILGE Project was created, two were built, launched, and one was built. On the other hand, the drone project, which launched the first flight on 2010, has been a test drive for a year and a half, and the construction of two adreins has been completed, and the construction of ten ADADs continues. On the other hand, 15 mass productions of the first Turkish design training aircraft, HÜRKÜDÜ, were conducted -- its first flight on August 24, 2013. Also, four Turkish helicopters -- again domestic -- are being built under the ATAK Project. Most importantly, work has been completed by the most widely used Machine Chemical Industries as part of the new infantry rifle and will begin mass production in 2014. On the other hand, the long-range anti-tank missile project has been implemented thanks to the IMTAS Project, which will continue mass production in 2014. Today, our defence industry has reached nearly $5 billion in production power, nearly 1.5 billion in export capacity. Of the world's top 100 defense companies, we have two companies. All of this took place at a time when our national defence budget dropped from 4 per cent to less than 2 per cent. The National Ministry of Defence is doing budget planning, aware of our economic power, within the framework of current economic and social policies and the Central Future Programme, for essential needs. Its dedicated resources are based on financial transparency and accountability, the basic principles of restructuring in public administration. The 2014 National Ministry of Defence budget, which uses legal and governance systems and processes to ensure the effective, economic and efficient use of public resources collected, is 21 billion 815 million and 196000 euros. Our share in this budget is five percent, and the ranking is five percent. In this context, I have full faith that the effort to use its budget with maximum savings will continue, as it has so far. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish the national Defense Ministry's 2014 budget would be good luck to our Turkish Armed Forces and our nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0791par0201	Thank you. The last speaker, İbrahim Korkmaz, is Düzce MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0792par0204	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the Defense Industry Undersecretary's budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. In fact, I was going to talk about the defense industry budget tonight, but my friends said everything I had to say. That's why I'd like to discuss the matter a little bit more in a different way. I'd like to go back in time, if you'll excuse me. They say it was because he had a large number of soldiers when Ottomans ruled the world, but that's not true. The Ottomans, as you all know, had the most perfect ball cast technology. As the conqueror poured out the walls of Istanbul, he brought in the Hungarian casting masters and had the cumulative technology, and developed thin cidarite cannons that can withstand high pressure and can throw at long-range cannons. When he had gone to Egypt, when he had taken Egypt, when he had passed through the wilderness, he took with him such cannons. When the Egyptian Meliki Tomanbay said to her, "You had heavy weapons, you had artillery." She said, "Don't you know that the Messenger of God said to her to be armed with the gun of the enemy?" As the Ottomans went to Europe, as they went to Vienna, they were able to take these perfect cannons -- very thin, light, portable balls -- with them, and achieve military achievements. As you all know, the Ottomans didn't use very large warships, they used very small warships, but they were very high-powered ships. I want to get from here to this: I mean, we started talking about the technology that we had a hundred years ago today. Unfortunately, we haven't developed the war industry in the last two hundred years, especially since we've been away from technology. We had this industry that we were trying to develop today. You all know that by the end of the 1930s, we built an airplane factory, and we're still trying to do it today, trying to fly the HURKUR. This aircraft factory, unfortunately, was sunk, so we took a plane from the French and sunk this aircraft factory. The government didn't take his orders, and this factory was shut down. If that technology had continued today, there was no reason why we wouldn't have built a plane like Airbus today. When the late Erbakan Hodja -- God bless him -- told him about heavy industry in Turkey, they laughed at him in the ranks of this Parliament. When he said, "We will build our own cannon, our own tank, our own ship, our own plane. " The horizon was that big because you can't develop anything with people who aren't confident, you can't make any breakthroughs. Today, we are in a place of confidence -- praise be to God -- where we come from. Our friends counted it, they spilled it, so what we've done, what we're doing now, they've said it one by one, and I'll tell you a few if you want. So what is it? We're developing a national infantry rifle, we're developing a national tank, the Altay Project, we're developing long-range rockets, we're developing a Turkish drone, we're developing a mine-protected vehicle, we're developing a MILGAM warship, we're developing an ATAK helicopter, we're developing a domestic jet project, we're developing native drones, et cetera, et cetera. We'll do more. But in all of this...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0793par0210	You've locked up all the commanders who've developed information. The commanders who developed the information are all inside.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0792par0211	It's not the commanders, it's the engineers. We provide for the commanders.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0793par0212	You locked up the engineers, you locked up the officers.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0792par0213	Oh, please, please, don't, don't, don't, don't. So the commanders don't do it, the commanders do their job, the industrialist does his. So, never mind. By God's leave, we believe that our confidence has come. Look, Turkey's doing it now. Nobody says we can't do it from these parts. It's a big success, a big breakthrough. We've crossed this threshold, and there's nothing we can't do from now on, and I salute you all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0794par0217	Thank you. The talks for the bands are over. Now, in the name of the government, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Nihat Ergün. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the final account of our 2012 budget and to our 2014 budget. I salute you all with respect and love. At this time of night, I salute our beloved nation who listen to us. Dear lawmakers, our main objective as Ministry is to take important steps towards Turkey's goals in the next ten years. Turkey wants to be one of the first 10 economies to export $500 billion in the next decade. What we're doing is we're going to get from $230 billion in revenues to about $800 billion in ten years, and we're going to get to $11,000 in Turkey, which is a mid-income income level, at $3,500 per unit. Technologically, about ten years ago, the production structure in Turkey was the production structure where low technologies were dense, 70 per cent of production and exports were based on it, but in the past ten, fifteen years, Turkey's moves have created a focus on medium technologies. But to achieve the goals of the next decade, neither this income level nor this technological level will allow us to reach those goals, we are aware of that. For him, we are obliged to build a Turkey that is producing two trillion dollars of revenues per million per million, and a high-velocity high-end, advanced-tech industry, to see that our competitiveness lies in these parts, and to achieve Turkey's goals in the next ten years. Our Industrial Strategy Document is based on Turkey being an industrial country. 95% of our exports are industrial products. We made the right choice, to become an industrial country. It's one of our best choices. Now, we're taking steps to transform this industry into an industry that produces high-velocity and high-tech products. This is the vision of our Industrial Strategy Document, in medium and high-tech products, to make our country, Eurasia, a production and an RD center for our vast geography. Turkey is late on this issue, as we are late on many matters. For example, Turkey was able to organise intellectual property rights about a hundred years after the United States, to make consumer rights arrangements about 50 years after Europe. We may not have been able to take steps in certain matters when necessary. In the last decade -- 2005, 2007, 2008 -- we've created very important laws about R&D, and then, really, there's been a huge acceleration, and now, with the support of technology capital, Turkey's techno-enterators, 1,100-1. We got 200 of our friends to be tech techs at colleges. Here we take support from 100 young people to 300 young people each year. Let's raise the budget from 10 million to 30 million. Now we can support 550 young people. They're going to have some very important faces, and they're going to run projects on some very important issues. Here, there's no way to go into any of this. In 2007-2008, when we passed the RD Centers Act, he now established more than 150 large enterprises in RDC, and 21,500 AR-GE employees are doing RD work around here. The number of techno parks established over the past decade has exceeded 50 ▪ and has been conducting research development activities in more than 20,000 R&D companies. With the Industrial Appreciation Programme, especially the KOBI, small medium-sized enterprises, we cover 75 per cent of their expenditures, 75 per cent of their project, the RD project; they were able to do RD with SAN-TEZ projects that we covered from our ministry's budget. Hundreds of COBIs are taking advantage of this place. Organised industrial areas are a very important infrastructure industry. About 90 of the industrial and organised industrial zones have been completed in Turkey; 90 out of 153 have been completed in this period in the past decade. Now, with reforming organised industrial areas -- there's been an application for a reformed industrial area near 40 -- we're also collecting the disorganized industry in Turkey. There were 11 districts of reformed industry in Thrace, in Ergene basin, in nine Tekirdağ, in two Cırklarites. Eight of them have won the normal form of organised industry and will now be held next year for these reformed industrial areas in the Ergene basin, with an infrastructure tender of about 500 million in January and February 2014. Our projecting work on this is complete. Dear friends, these are very important indications that the budgets assigned to our Ministry are being used properly. I also listened carefully to the criticism of our friends from opposition parties, and I listened carefully to our friends from the ruling party's work on the activities of our Ministry, and I thank them all. There's been a lot of beautiful things expressed, good reviews, and we're going to take advantage of them, but really, we're very careful to spend the budget numbers that the High Assembly has dedicated to this Ministry. COSGEB (KOSGEB) and I really care about the KOBI (KoBI) and entrepreneurship. We're offering up to 30,000 lira grants per year for 5,000 entrepreneurs to start their own business, up to 170,000 lira loans, interest-free loans. Enterprise education has become very common, over 200,000 people in the past four or five years have been trained as entrepreneurs. After creating an entrepreneurial and innovative index in our universities, all of our universities actually entered a race and began to value entrepreneurial, innovation. The Institute of Turkish Standards has now reached an infrastructure that is no longer measured in Turkey, which cannot be analyzed in Turkey. Hopefully, we'll bring an international company to a point where they can compete with international institutions, the Institute for Turkish Standards. With the research of TÜBITAK, there are really important research in every field, from biotechnology until the defence industry reaches space exploration. Turkey is now becoming one of the countries that can make its own satellites and make its launch systems. Now, instead of monitoring satellites, team satellites and communications satellites projects have become projects that we work with our defense industry in TUBITAK. So when we ask where our money is going, we can also say, "Yes, some of our money goes into space as satellites. The money we've given someone else to take pictures of our country... now that our own satellites are taking pictures of Turkey, they're taking pictures of Turkey. Further in time, Turkey will have had access to its communications satellites, its own communications, and its own systems. This is all happening with the support you've given me. With new studies in biotechnology, the process of producing biotech drugs has been initiated at TÜBITAK. The process of developing domestic energy systems, their technology has been initiated. All of this is really good news for our country. I'd like to thank our friends indirectly for their contribution. I repeat once again to our members of the Plan and Budget Commission, to our MPs on the General Assembly that the budget of 2014 will be used with the same understanding, and that these scarce resources for our country's very important projects -- Turkey's scarce problems are a very country -- I respectfully salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Secretary of State. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0243	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I go into my statements about the National Ministry of Defense's 2014 budget, I salute you. Mr. President, the world of today, where there has been a constant change, has become less stable, less predictable and more complex than ten years ago. In this transition, new security issues and needs have arisen. Depending on this, security perceptions have gone beyond the usual threat of war, becoming multilateral, asymmetrical, complex and uncertain. In this uncertain situation, NATO's strongest army is also the Turkish Armed Forces, the strongest army in the region. Because our army is ready for this war at any moment, our heads are high, our foreheads are open, and we are proud of our army. Of course, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the foundation of our army, and if there's no man, there's no army. Therefore, each individual of all Turkish Armed Forces is very important and important to us. First of all, the right to live is held in front of all kinds of activities, and we are entrusted with Mehmet-chiks sent to us as martyrs or veterans. In this context, we are being thoroughly scanned for our trusts, for our Mehmetchiks, for their physical health, for their psychological conditions, and for the first time, many of our children may encounter psychologists here. They're being vaccinated on their physical health, and if they're being examined, they're being transferred to the nearest hospital as soon as possible after their complaints. His psychological condition is being examined by interviews and surveys conducted during his accession, and he is referred to staff health institutions with problems. Talks are also being held with our psychologists and they are trying to adjust to military service. Guidance and advice centres within the Turkish Armed Forces serve as 961 staff and psychologists, psychological advisers and assistant staff in 337 centers to determine, psychologically assist, and provide protective mental health care. Every day, we continue to provide personnel to increase this number. In addition, all of our Mehmetchiks are provided with telephones that are in our barracks through the Alo Mehmetchik Line, where they can reach and share their problems at any time. The TELE-NET telephone line also allows personnel to reach the head of the GATA Military Psychology and Harp Psychiatry Science Branch at any time. In addition, as part of staff's friendship with arms, it is always tried to help through the practice of the Canal Friend (L.A.), and especially in cases of sudden crisis, by monitoring health, even financial problems. Despite all these measures, there have been incidents from Turkish Armed Forces personnel that, compared with other armies, have been slightly fatal. In each of the cases that resulted in death, both forensic and administrative investigations are being launched, and the incident is surely being investigated in every detail, and there are administrative and judicial investigations against those responsible. So far, our records show no criminal and administrative investigations, no investigations, no suspects. However, here we see the number of suicides from our soldiers, Mehmet, who have been in our Armed Forces for many years. Suicide has been reduced over the years. To give you a figure, when 149 soldiers and privates committed suicide in 2000, 127 in 2001; 149 in 2002; 95 in 2003; 95 in 2010; 59 men and men from the beginning of 80 in 2013 until now. However, it is not only in Turkey; it is not in the Armed Forces alone. The minister committed suicide -- if you enter -- the Japanese minister committed suicide, the Syrian minister committed suicide, the Serbian minister committed suicide, we committed suicide, the chancellor committed suicide, Bayburt...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0796par0251	Are you going to commit suicide?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0252	So he committed suicide from Bayburt, from Erzincan. The professor of theology committed suicide. The architect committed suicide after killing his parents. So the Turkish Armed Forces are part of this nation, and what's in this nation is the same with the Armed Forces; I want to say it.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0796par0253	Is that a good thing?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0254	It's not a good thing, there's no doubt about it, but your society...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0796par0255	You make it sound like a good thing.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0256	That it's not just a simple problem, that there's such a problem all over society, that it requires everyone's contribution...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0796par0257	You make it sound like it's normal.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0258	Look, when you go to the U.S. Department of Defense website, there's a record of how many soldiers committed suicide that month on the US Department of Defense website.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0797par0259	In our religion, suicide is the greatest sin.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0260	Of those who were active in 182 military forces in 2012, 143 national guards and reserves, a total of over 300, and again, the general says: I've been in the Armed Forces for the past seven years -- United States -- but I've never encountered a problem as difficult as this. Thus, it is necessary for everyone, families, commanders, friends, and civil society to solve this problem. Again, in October 10 people actively committed suicide and 12 others who were not active. So far, 126 active, 125 inactive... we can increase the number of these. Again, as the American general says, it's not only the problem of our Armed Forces; it's also the problem of armed forces around the world. I'd like to give you a number: again, on the US Department of Defense website, the number of Americans who committed suicide in 2012 is 34 thousand, and that number is more than those who died in a car accident, and most of them are young people. Our society is not immune to this suicide.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0798par0262	Mr. Secretary, 34 grand a year?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0263	Yes, yes, in 2012, but not in the military. I can give you this article again, and if you go on the website, it's on the US Department of Defense website, 34 grand a year. We have 34,000 people,....... saying "x" (x),.. last year more than 34,000 people took their own lives...... they have records. So it's very complex and complicated.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0799par0264	The usual doesn't apply to our religion there, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0265	So every day, we need to learn something new. So there's extreme risk, there's substance abuse, there's sharp changes in life, leaving what they have, leaving what they have, each of which affects it. So we're all... these Mehmetchiks, these children are all our sons, our brothers and sisters. Whatever anyone knows, whatever they want to support, it's welcome, it's a pleasure, our Armed Forces are open to it. We are prepared to receive everyone's support on this path, which is the common problem of our society, to minimize the part that reflects on the Armed Forces. In other words, have arms exports been made to Syria? The permission of all arms exports made from Turkey passes through the Ministry of National Defence. As the Ministry of National Defence, Syria was not allowed to export any weapons. However, I would like to explain once again to the High Council what the Ministry of Customs has made today. The weapon was not exported to Syria. Contrary to the unsub's claim in the news, in 2013, no weapons went from Turkey to Syria. The exports include a jagged hunting rifle and a blank sound pistol. Other than that, we have no exports. Photos of the news visually show that the weapons of war have not been exported, nor are the jagged weapons official. Thus, with the photos presented in the news visual, public opinion is once again wanted to be misled. It is not a military weapon, as said in the news, that there are riveted hunting rifles and pistols that are suitable for sports use exported to Syria. This object is not subject to any restrictions or permits for exports to Syria in accordance with existing international legislation, and it was made through a red line under customs control. One other thing... (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0800par0269	It was sent in secret, Mr. Secretary, not exported.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0270	They're not in statistics, they don't have export pens. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!]
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0801par0271	That's very true, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0273	There are no elements of the Armed Forces left out of court control. Every division of the Armed Forces is supervised on every issue. Finally, social peace in Turkey compels a state to judge social differences, identities and values, and the co-existence of differences will strengthen us. We want to end an understanding that a certain number of martyrs every year for the sake of unresolvedness is an inevitable loss. We say the years we've tried, as if nothing had happened, that trying will no longer solve the problems of this country. People who live together in Turkey in a thousand years of process, who are related to that structure, who have the same history, who have a civilization, whose common denominator is much more than their common denominator. No one can reverse the thousand-year process and history, the culture that made them a nation, and no one can afford it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've given more than 30,000 victims to terror, 15,000 veterans, and it's on the side of terrorists. Thus, by court order, the terrorist organization has been identified as a terrorist organization, confirmed. The one who closes his eyes makes it at night. No matter what anyone says, nothing will make these people forget that 33 of our Mehmet-chiks are martyrs. However, it's not only the Turks, it's Turkish, it's Kurdish, it's Laz. I mean, all the elements of the nation that form the Republic of Turkey are in our martyrs. We're confident. Why? It says, "Don't be afraid, it's the flag that floats at these dawns." Until when? This stove will not go out, this flag will not go down, as long as there is only one stove left on my land.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0802par0279	Mr. Secretary says don't be afraid, but why are you afraid?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0795par0280	In the final sentence, I say: "It is the right of my nation that worships the truth. " Therefore, there is no doubt that anyone who believes in the Istrial March will not land this flag, that this state will not be divided, that this country will not be divided. We believe, we trust, and Turkey has enough power to ensure that. We trust our armed forces, we trust ourselves, we trust our nation, we trust the elements that make this nation. With these opinions, with these feelings, I salute your grand delegation, wishing our budget a good fortune.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0803par0284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In the name of the person...
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0804par0286	Mr. President, just for the record, Mr. Secretary has allowed suicides to be perceived as a common condition. As a physician, Mr. Secretary, this is a very dangerous situation. Suicides can increase after your conversation.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0803par0287	He didn't say that, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0804par0288	Please give a corrective speech on this matter. Suicides need to be investigated.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0803par0289	I mean, he didn't make it normal, so I listened to the suicides. Please.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0804par0290	Why are you defending me, Mr. President? The minister has an explanation. Why are you defending him?
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0803par0291	Shame, shame! You can hear it from here.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0804par0292	If there's a suicide tomorrow, everyone will have a guilty conscience.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0803par0293	Now, on behalf of the person, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, he's an MP of the Conium.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0805par0295	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In my speech against the National Department of Defense budget, I'm going to address some of the problems our petty officers have. Our veterans and retired petty officers both have serious and accumulated problems. Although Petty Officers' schools were upgraded to the university level in 2002, the previous graduates have not had the same principles, nor have the promises been kept. Therefore, for years our petty officers, retired from the 2nd and 3rd degrees, have received less pensions at the level of $600. What a pity, what a shame! Is that so unfair? Don't the State Department of Defense and the Chief of Staff see this injustice? You can't find an example of such a practice in public. Prior to Act 926, the right to an art school, a high school graduate and two years of military school graduates should also be recognised to our petty officers and pensioners who graduated before the Petty Officers' Law. Mr. Secretary, we're here to ask you, and we're waiting for your answer. Are you going to undo this injustice, or are you going to make the necessary arrangements? Our petty officers are waiting for a clear answer. One of the major problems with petty officers is that their wages are constantly melted because they've always been ignored. Since the execution began, the authorities have been unable to receive compensation for office and duties for 12 years, and their salaries are significantly reduced when they retire. Although it was decided by the Council of Prosecutors' Offices to cancel the 1st Article on the basis of Article No. 601, which violates the essence of Article 601 of the Law on the payment of office compensation, the same injustice has been carried out in 2008 as the new regulation. With these compensations, the immediate payment of additional payments has now become inevitable in terms of the social lives, morale and motivation of petty officers. In addition, pensioners of the Turkish Armed Forces have been ignored since 2006, while pensioners of the Turkish Armed Forces have been paid $100 extra. Despite the vast majority of the OYAK participants, a petty officer has only been able to enter the Governing Body with a court order. The logical and legal solution, however, is that the OYAK member gets the right to represent by everyone's participation. The OYAK and its participation should be represented at this rate by petty officers and their pensioners, who make up 60 per cent of OYAK members on the boards of directors and audits. Again, the number and physical capacity of social facilities is against petty officers. The Turkish Armed Forces are a family, a whole. Basically, all social facilities and entry into military homes should be open to all personnel. Petty Officers don't get enough of the housing. Justice must be established in the housing distribution and the personnel who are required to live in the residence must be assigned regardless of their rank. With respect, our petty officers want justice and equality, not privilege and privilege. Petty Officers' rights must be given at once, justice and equality. On the other hand, in a short period of time, the suicides of seven petty officers were met with public sadness and anxiety. Suicides are not to be seen as common, the reasons for suicides must be investigated. It is imperative that all authorities in the responsible position and office take an interest and intervene in the situation within the scope of its mandate. I wish that the budget would be a blessing, with respect.
tbmm-2013-12-16sit08spe0806par0303	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the 11th round, respectively. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget for 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 26) INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.159.728,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 2.262,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 511.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 626,526,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 74,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 2.789.101,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 2,508.202.556.95 Budget Expenses 2.491.363.978.93 Canceled Fund 16,838,578,02 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 11:251,067,83 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. The President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2014, I submit to your votes that the central management budget should be moved to its sections: those who don't accept... those who don't. 40.30) THE PRESIDENT OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS TO PRODUCTION AND CONTROL 1) The President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration for 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 21.026,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 545,265,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 568,641.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.458,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 473,641.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 34,542,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collection 12,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 523,641.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2012 will be transferred to the specific chapters of the central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total grant 613,255,705,68 Budget Expenses 572.635.935.65 Canceled Fund 28.999.337.35 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 11.620.432.68 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 362.038,000.00 Net Collection 472.434.209,19 Ret and Returns (-) 1,614,45 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted as part of the central management account in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards shall be moved to the chapters of the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.22) Turkish STANTARTS INSTITUTION 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 37,956,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 195,907,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 236,863,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 199,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 38,800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 237.900,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Turkish Institute of Standards adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Institute of Turkish Standards shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Institute of Standards Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 717.211.000.00 Budget Expenses 589.839.627.89 Canceled Fund 127,371,372,11 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 263,000,000.00 Net Collection 209.941.622.61 Ret and Returns (-) 272.106,40 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Institute of Standards was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute take part in the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.24) Turkish PATENT INSTITUTION 1) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18,406.800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 3000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 947.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 27,386,600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 46,744,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 82,480,200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 21,519.800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 104,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Turkish Patent Institute adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent Institute will take part in the central management account in 2012: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Turkish Patent Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 233,614,000,00 Budget Expenses 229.550.081.75 Canceled Fund 4.063.918.25 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 120,000,000.00 Net Collection 96,188,597,20 Ret and Returns (-) 150,628,28 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Patent Institute was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.08) THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY CLEARS AND TEKNOLOGIC RESEARCH 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,806,579,520 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 790,480 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 433,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 82,664,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,890.467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 170,721000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 1,658,567,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 61,179.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,890.467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept it... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total grant 2,205,685,442.94 Budget Expenses 1,561,972,575,53 Cancelled Fund 643,712,867,41 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 13.403,575,04 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 1,609,394,000.00 Net Collection 1.642.783.499,83 Ret and Returns (-) 572,430,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences take part in the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.09) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 12.563,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 12.563,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 154,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 12:409,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 12.563,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences take part in the central management account of 2012: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 9.99,299,21 Budget Expenses 6,256,228,61 Canceled Fund 3.739.070,60 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 8.491.00 Net Collection 8.531.712.53 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the national Defense Ministry will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 199,198,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 21.603.857,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 8.268,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 3.873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 21.815.196,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. National Ministry of Defence adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014 I would like to submit to your votes that the National Defense Department's central management account of 2012 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Ministry of Defence 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 26.131.204.926.38 Budget Expenses 18,524,519,701,44 Canceled Fund 7,514,929,601,04 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 7,578,180,150,02 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defence was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Defense Industry Undersecretary will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.28) SURVIVATION INVESTIGATION 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Budget [[TL]] 02 Defense Services 46,566,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 46.566,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 107,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 46,403,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collections 50,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 46.566,000 The Defence Industry Undersecretary has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. Defense Industry Undersecretary, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred into the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 41,496,000,00 Budget Expenses 39.794.478.53 Canceled Fund 1,701,521,47 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 33,99,000,00 Net Collection 33.816.420,75 Ret and Returns (-) 950,60 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Defense Industry Undersecretary was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. Members of parliament, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, therefore adopted the Turkish Institute for Development and Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises, the Institute for Turkish Standards, the Turkish Patent Institute for Scientific and Technological Research, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, the National Defence Ministry, the Central Government budgets of 2012. I wish him well. Members of parliament, according to the programme, I am closing the meeting Tuesday (December 17th 2013) to discuss the budget and final accounts of the institutions and to hold talks and votes on the unvoted substances of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2014; I thank you, and good night.
