tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The seventh round includes the Ministry of Interior, Security General Directorate, the General Directorate of the Police, the General Command of the gendarmes, the Ministry of Coast Guard Command, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of State Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Meteorology and Turkey's Water Institute budgets and final accounts, and the General Directorate of Migration. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 (x) 506 and 507 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 27th Constabulary of the Union, dated 10/12/2013. 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2012 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2012 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Forest General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Account for 2012 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, lawmakers who wish to question the budgets involved in the tour are requested to enter the system. In the seventh round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP; Mehmet Siyam Kesimoğlu, Kırklareli MP; Musa Çam, İzmir MP; Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP; Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP; Melda Onur, İstanbul MP. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla MP; Enver Erdem, Alazığ MP; Seyfetttin Yılmaz, Adana MP; Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Erol Dora, Mardin MP; Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP; Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Mehmet Ersoy, Sinop MP; Hüseyin Bürge, İstanbul MP; Ahmet Tevfik Uzın, Mersin MP; Mehmet Sarı, Gaziantep MP; Seyit Sertçelik, Ankara MP; Fehmi Küpçü, Bolu MP; Hüseyin Filiz, Çankırı MP; Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP; Mehmet Erdem, Aydın MP; Faruk Septioğlu, Elazig MP; Mustafa Akış, Konya MP. On behalf of his people: Mehmet Akyürek who wants a word in his favor; Sırrı Süzeyya Önder who wants a word against him, İstanbul MP. Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, is now calling for the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've been talking for 11 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0002par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute you all. Congressmans, the Home Office, like the government, has disappointed us with its 2013 performance. Even if we put it all aside, the fact that the tagging of those involved in the travel actions is on the agenda of Turkey again reveals this fact. As you all know, in the wake of the request of the AVM in the Travel Park, about 8,000 people were injured, 6 people lost their eyes, about 6,000 people were taken into custody following police intervention in the demonstrations of people using their democratic rights. According to the indictment, 255 people have been indicted. Müezzin said there was no drinking in the mosque. However, the indictment was again brought forward on the charge of damaging the service by polluting it. In comparison to the victory of Çanakkale, your interference in travel events has also made the victims of Çanakkale suffer. The AKP's government is doing all its fiction to punish those who don't think, believe, and don't support themselves. The Prime Minister's ongoing discussion of male and female lives by the Home Secretary and some governors is a typical example of this. This mentality, which interferes with people's social lives, their lifestyles, and is trying to shape social life in its own way, has also insulted students living in our college dorms. The Ministry of Interior sees preventive measures in fighting crime as measures like martial law. He also considers the mechanisms to avoid crime as intimidation, intimidation, intimidation, pressure, detention. In recent days, civil martial law practices have been used to create a sterile environment for the election campaign to Mughla and Thrace. The Prime Minister won't like it. The banners and billboards have been covered, and dozens of people have been taken into custody for pleasure. With the governor's decision, Muğla has returned to an open-air prison. The possibility of individual freedom, individual rights and democratic rights has been destroyed. Democracy has fallen underfoot. The Ministry of Interior, some governors and law enforcement officers perceive every word of the Prime Minister as a law. When that's the case with perception, it's forced to create crime and guilt. Just like in travel cases and some other cases. It's like talking about mixed dorms with a moral guard when there's not a single coed in this country. Even though there was no evidence of drinking at the mosque, it was like the mosque muezzin's eight-hour interrogation at counterterrorism division, and then he was exiled. Some governors insult the public, some mock people's suffering and threaten journalists. In recent days, Mr. Secretary, I regret to inform you that any governors are being discussed as to which governors belong to the congregation, which governors belong to others. This is truly upsetting for our country. Mr. Secretary, even though you deny it, the so-called survey conducted by the Turkish Statistical Agency jointly with the President of Religious Affairs has recently brought up the re-opening of the branding events. Likewise, belief-based questions in the health sector, investigations in schools, explaining that 78 per cent of those involved in travel activities are the most typical example of tagging. Asking for the information of all university students in dorms via the SEC is a typical example of tagging. The request for the names of Alevi and Kurd students from the school administration in İzmir Limontepe is a typical example of discrimination and tagging. Mr. Secretary, in fact, in this way, you're conducting psychological operations under the names of the Community Support Police Project. But you can't solve any problems by creating imaginary crimes or by taking people into custody, and you can't plug them in anymore. That's what travel actions have shown that millions of people are going out on the street. That's why travel protests have corrupted your government's chemistry. Now you must see that you cannot resolve the right demands raised against your government by police measures on democratic ground. Police measures in democratization don't solve things. They don't forbid democratization, they develop freedoms. The solution is to be transparent, to respect human rights and freedoms. Whether you increase the TOMA number or increase the import of pepper spray, whatever you do, you can no longer prevent it. As a matter of fact, you need to understand that security is largely dependent on democracy culture, freedom. Instead of focusing on our police's education in human rights, instead of improving their rights, you're putting them on the job under difficult circumstances, you're turning them against the public. In this year's period of 41, 299 police officers committed suicide. Listen to the cries of EMNIT-SEN. EMNIT-SEN makes it clear why you would accuse the press. You can't solve any problems by creating imaginary reasons and enemies instead of seeing the truth. The same goes for our borders. You're not getting anywhere blaming people. You made Turkey a neighbour of the Qaeda-related organisations and put Turkey at great risk of security. You say that you care deeply about NGOs as a ministry, but the practices don't show that. The Society for the Support of Modern Life is still in the memory of the society that you have sought out, and the pressures continue at this moment. You're trying to intimidate those who voluntarily serve the association and those who donate it by the hand of Finance and Social Security. You're pressuring the Union of Turkish Architect Engineers with 24 rooms tied up, and you're trying to connect them to yourself. Stop using the control of the associations as a means of pressure on the associations, and go after those who are corrupt by exploiting people's sacred values. Look, when there were over 300 rooms, unions, NGOs on the Taxi Solidarity platform that occurred during the travel events, you declared almost all of them terrorists, and you called them fashion, you said all of them "marginal." Mr. Secretary, there is a grave matter in front of the Ministry of Interior and the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. After $90m has been spent on the crude construction of the structure described as the iron cage on the road to Ankara-Eskişehir, the process of the destruction of this structure in 2013 is an example of the history of corruption, unlawful conduct, and the corruption of the Interior Ministry, the Court, and the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office does not reflect on any of your consciences. You've put pressure on opposition municipalities in your administration, but you've ignored the actions of municipalities of your own, Mr. Secretary, as you can see from the example I just gave you. But that is a matter which is present before the eyes of all, and is witnessed by all. It's supposed to be park and green, but it's a piece of land that's being transferred from the editing partnership. Part of it belonged to the Ataturk Forest Farm and was transferred to Gazi University. However, despite zoning plans in this area, objections from relevant institutions, court decisions, inspectors and experts reports, stubbornly building a giant steel cage raped on the same boulevard, main boulevard. After nearly $90 million was spent, before it was completed, this time its production was stopped and destroyed. It's been tolerated. And then what happened? Later, a great deal of money was spent on the state budget, on the municipal budget to destroy it, but this enormous monument of rant and corruption has left no one's conscience, nor any of your conscience. That, Mr. Secretary, is a question of accountability. Congressmans, with your applications, with the implementation of this Ministry of Interior, there is a serious obstacle to the democracy and freedom of this country. It's also the government's practice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The AKP must remember the law rather than challenge the state by taking all its power behind it, and realize that a significant part of society is uncomfortable with it. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0003par0074	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is Mehmet Siam Kesımoğlu, Kırklareli MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0004par0077	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Police General Directorate. I hereby salute your high council with love and respect. At the beginning of my words, I greet and greet all of our fallen policemen with the mercy of God, the condolences of their families, and the wounded police with love and respect from this stand. On December 10th, the Prime Minister made comparisons regarding his own rulings regarding the previous term in his speech on the entire budget on this bench, and often said that's our difference. I want to celebrate his success by comparing 11 years of AKP power with the inspiration I received from Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our police are the most suicidal professions of all. The number of police suicides has increased every year in your reign. Since its establishment, suicides have been caused by pressure and intimidation within the institution, said EMNIT-SEN. In 12 years, over 40 of them in 2013, 300 of our policemen took their own life. In contrast, the Police Department of Health has announced that instead of going over this problem through the Office of Health, the suicide rate has been reduced by the number of staff, even by sacrificing to God to prevent suicides, and that's what you're aware of; I'm celebrating! We have policemen who think about what to bring home at night at night, how to pay their credit card debt, how to drink themselves at the police station, how to get rid of their children, how to send them to the police station, how to deal with corrupt rations, how to threaten journalists through social media, whether to treat them like they're threatening him, or how to get rid of their enthusiastic colleagues, their public-focused service bullshit, their regret to torture citizens, their regret to come out of a twenty-four-hour overtime shift, and to be sent back to the guard again without a minute's rest, their unfair additional indicators, their pensions, half of their pension, and so-called pensions. Instead of solving our police's problems and making their lives easier, you fired those cops. That's your difference; I'm celebrating! You've been picked up at the age of 25,554, 910 armored vehicles without armor. After 2006, 500 million liras were spent on the MOBESE. Even the Happy Governor of Istanbul couldn't find the camera footage of what you claimed was happening at Kabataş Pier, when the prime minister jumped at it like a found macribî, but while Ethem Sarısulik was being shot by a police officer, your MOBESE (probably) zoomed into the tops of the trees from your environmentalism, from the trees. And as if that wasn't enough, I squeezed it three times. You, the alleged killer, brought the police to court with a wig, glasses, and a false mustache. And then you sent a murder out of Ankara and tied it to a teleconference, and then the judge and the judge of the case slept in court, and that's the difference between you and me, I'm celebrating! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Prime Minister's legendary printers entered ODTÜ. He shot Abdullah in Hatay with a gas pistol. He killed 19-year-old Ali Korkmaz, a student in Eskişehir with a kick and a slap, and Hatay hunted Ahmet Atakan on the roof. Mehmet Ayvallıtaş was crushed, and his mother died of a heart attack yesterday. Officer Mustafa Sarı fell and became a martyr. While all this is happening, Mr. Prime Minister has been beaten to blood, not to lives, but to broken ceramics, that's your difference, I congratulate you! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Police have injured 8,163 people in the Trips. 4,070 people have been taken into custody. Berkin, 14, who was shot in the neck with a gas capsule on his way to get bread, has been in intensive care for months. At least 12 people lost their eyes. In return, you used a disproportionate power pen to give that cop a bonus, and that's the difference between you and me. I'm celebrating! The number of people currently serving as private security in this country is 700,000, which is larger than the Turkish Armed Forces. That's your difference; I'm celebrating! The Security Directorate budget that we're currently interviewing has increased 16 times in 12 years, and has increased 12 per cent compared to the previous year. This increase turned out to be a ring of pepper spray, target-watching body shots and chemically supplemented water. You've raised the police budget 16 times, the police violence 1,600 times, and that's your difference; I'm celebrating! [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Prime Minister's heroic police in the Trip with a gas flare from 2 meters to the head, eyeing from 5 meters with a rubber bullet, breaking heads with a bat in ten seconds, a thousand cubic metres of gas in a cubic meter, a 100-meter pursuit of patriots who are disabled, throwing citizens away with high water, forgetting that they've made art in the Olympics of 2020, that's what you've declared to be a crime for the loss of the Olympics, and that's what you've been celebrating.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0005par0092	A medal for the Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0004par0093	In the 11th year of AKP's rule, you have declared 79% of this country's geographically police and 21 per cent gendarme territory in the mask of the city's municipality. Mr. Prime Minister will go to Mugla, and the police will take the citizens into custody for action. Prime Minister Cırklareli is going to Tekirdağ, Edirne. The curfew is being declared. You've made 80 percent of the country a state of emergency, and that's the difference. I'm celebrating! Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is December 14, 2013. Today, I declare to the world that Kahpe Byzantine, garçar İzmir, wounded Eskişehir, the capital of the republic and the heart of the revolution is Ankara, Hilmi, Kennedy Street, Dikmen, Gazi neighbourhood, Saltchayır, Opposite, Göttepe, Gündoğdu, Kadıköy, Kahtarköy, Yeniköy workers; Muğla, Hatay, Gaziantep, Şanliurfa, Samsun, Tripoli, Zonguldak, Antük children; the veteran ODTü, all the rebels and all the citizens of the land; you have lost your right to stand against each and every thing; you have lost your right to one hundred years; you have lost your rights; and you have lost your rights to every country. I salute your high council with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0006par0097	Thank you. The third speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Musa Çam, İzmir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Why was the preacher killed on the speaker's stand? He put up a sign written on it.]] Mr. Pine, Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0102	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all, and say good morning. I wish you a good weekend. As a representative of 76 million, my right to supervise whether or not the taxes paid by our citizens are being spent in accordance with their proper and purpose has been blocked by this government and the Supreme Court. I strongly condemn and protest this situation. Dear lawmakers, last year the Ministry of Interior's total budget was 23 billion, 950 million, 23 quadrillion, 950 trillion, and today the 2014 budget is 26 billion, 842 million, 26 quadrillion, 842 trillion. But unfortunately, as parliamentarians, as lawmakers, we can't control any of these expenditures, and the Court reports don't come here. They don't come here, they don't answer, but they ask all kinds of accounts from local governments and other public institutions. The unresponsive government continues to ask for answers. All the opposition municipalities have been blockaded by property inspectors, one of them comes in, one of them goes out, and one of them comes in, and the local authorities, the mayors, are being made unemployable. The pressures and the investigations, the trials are going on beyond belief. One of them is Izmir Metropolitan Municipality and district municipalities. İzmir Metropolitan Municipality is being tried for buying milk from the milk co-op from Tire, for buying flowers from Bayındır, for buying tangerines from Seferihisar, and for handing out scarfs to women on 8 March Women's Day. They are asked to account for it, but no account is asked of the multimillion-dollar budgets of the ministries, and that is a great injustice and a great injustice. Mr. Secretary, you've built a whole city, you've removed the state's private administration. The property of the province's private administrations is now being transferred to municipalities in the municipalities where you are in power. Izmir Province Special Administration has decided that Sümerbank will be transferred to İzmir Metropolitan Municipality three times, but Izmir Governor denies it three times, friends veto it. In the past few days, Mr. Prime Minister Tripoli has instructed the Governor's Office to give instructions on the transfer of private administration property in Tripoli to the City of Tripoli, but we are unable to implement the decisions taken by İzmir Province Special Administration in İzmir. This is another violence in Izmir. Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister Smyrna has announced the mayor of İzmir Metropolitan yesterday. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0008par0110	It's not the mayor, it's the candidate.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0111	But since 2011, a special embargo has been imposed on Izmir (Izmir), its projects, its development, its development of Izmir (Izmir).
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0009par0112	I think it was God who made me say it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0113	Mr. Home Secretary is here with his inspectors and other organizations. Now, friends, the election in İzmir is not a choice between St. Kocaoglu and Burili Yıldırım in the classical sense. Mr. Prime Minister says he's always been a fan of Izmir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0010par0115	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0116	...His bureaucrat, the president of Dianet Affairs, comes to İzmir and says: "He is a city without knowledge. He has a degree, he measures; he measures whether or not İzmir has knowledge, and he casts such dirt on İzmir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0011par0118	When, where did he say it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0119	Izmirli will settle the account on March 30, 2014. He'll pay for this! On March 30th, he will answer for his insults and his persecution. Izmir is a modern, democratic, secular, Ataturkian city and a city that has a very high quality of life, and this city will continue its struggle to the end. But there's something else happening in Izmir, my friends. In recent years, a governor came to İzmir, Diyarbakır Governor and İzmir Governor went to Diyarbakır. When we look into it, we see that the governor of Izmir is from Erzincan and is very close to the Minister of Transport, my friends.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0012par0121	You're from Erzincan!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0122	For a year and a half, there has been serious organization in İzmir. From the governor to the head of the estate, Mr. Bülli Yıldırım is organizing a serious organization until he reaches something I don't know about. Therefore, I have serious concerns and concerns about the local elections, which will take place on March 30, 2014. Why?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0013par0123	Fear!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0124	Because I carry the pressure, the threat, and serious concerns about polling officials. So, I know it's a historical duty to say it here on this bench because there's a separate organization out there, and it's our duty to expose this organization here. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary, you didn't get to see those pictures over there. See? These are the pictures of the children who were killed in June, from January 24th to today, when you were the minister. Take care of these. You're a father, we're a father, and we have children. You can imagine how much pain and suffering these children's mothers, their families have suffered.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0014par0128	His mother's gone!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0007par0129	Mr. Kesimoglu just told me. Mehmet Ayvallıtaş' mother, 43 years old, couldn't stand the pain of losing her son and had a heart attack yesterday and will be buried today in Istanbul. Now, all of us and all of you put your hands on your conscience... why were these children killed? Why was he killed? Why? Why? For three trees in the Travel Park? Was it necessary? In the same days, the increase in the bus in Brazil was put on the streets by young people and millions because of the corruption of the Olympics in 2016. The president of Brazil, the president of women, was on TV, and he said: "I'm celebrating our young people. I see with great pride, with great pride where our democracy has come, with great freedoms, that people have taken advantage of it. I thank them, we have received the message, it will be done. Now, it's time to go home. He said. What did the Prime Minister of our country say: I gave the appointment to the security forces, it will be done. Here, it's done, these friends of ours have been killed. Dear Kesimoglu, who spoke before me, has lost his organs, and today, hundreds of my young friends are in prisons, as well as in prisons, for participating in expeditions and June activities. Mr. Secretary, you and the Prime Minister are responsible for this. The Turkish Grand National Assembly does not transfer this budget to you to kill the children of tax-paying, tax-paying citizens. In this country, we give you peace, brotherhood, friendship, and not to pass it on to pepper spray, chemical water, TOMA, scorpions. Dear friends, we are entering 2014. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish 2014 was the year of peace, freedom and democracy, and I salute you all. The Home Office announces that we will vote red on its budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0015par0136	Thank you. The fourth speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0016par0139	Mr. President, in 2012, I was unable to oversee the expenditures and procedures made by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, as the Supreme Court, under the direction of political power, issued reports that it sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Using my nation's budget rights to me, I was prevented by the government and the Supreme Court to determine whether or not the taxes paid by our citizens were being spent in accordance with the way they were paid. I start by protesting this situation. Members of parliament, first of all, in my speech, on the basis of the 12 September Constitution and on the basis of the 12 September Laws, I would like to discuss today whether it is legal to discuss the Constitutional budget of this Ministry, which has a hundred and seventy-five years of history, was established under the law of the Ministry of Forest and Water in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Because I'd also like to point out if the ruling under the law is still in the Constitutional Assembly of the Great National Assembly of Turkey. On this question, I'd also like to offer this budget with respect to all of you, whether it's legal here or not. I remember Erdal Eren, who was executed by fascist dictators, on the 33rd anniversary of his departure, and once again I condemn his murderers with hatred. In addition, during the travel rally in Çanakkale, the government has filed a report claiming that it has no criminal responsibility, but I repeat, 13-year-old middle school student is being tried for up to six years in prison for damaging public property. Is it right or ethical for this 13-year-old middle school student to be tried without a criminal license? I wonder what this child will look like to our police here and to the Republic of Turkey for the rest of his life. Dear lawmakers, in no time in our republic's history has there ever been a power as hostile to our forest and forestry as the AKP. There have been 11 years of AKP times when our country was at least forested. You've changed the law 12 times from the founding of the Republic to 2002, 17 times in your eleven-year-old power, and you've opened the way for the looting of the forests. One of the major sins of your power is that in our rapidly desertized country, you shut down the state forest nursery, and then, as the institution of years, the Director General of Forestification and Erosion Control. After you committed the greatest betrayal of our country, you were able to light up our people with imaginary numbers, claiming you were mobilising. Mr. Secretary, you claim you planted 2.5 billion trees here two months ago, and you claim you planted 3.5 billion trees last week. How did you plant so many, a billion trees in two months? You made fun of our people by recording the work done in the old wooding area, by inflating the numbers as I had just given you. As this is not enough, you have closed down Sinop. You have closed down Sinakkale with 53 percent of our country's most valuable forests covered in forest and the 56% forest-covered forest district manager, instead of Kayseri with 6% of the forest area, and the forest area of Urbana, which is 1% of the forest area. Is it possible to understand that? How can you explain that? In addition, you have pursued multinational gold mining companies to raid our ancient Kaz Mountains forest and our water supply. I will take the water basins from here and bring them to the other side. You even let them mock our people. In the 169th article of our Constitution, you have constantly destroyed our forests, despite the fact that the ownership of the state forest cannot be taken over, that no action can be allowed to harm forests, that it will establish laws for protection and expansion of forests, and that measures will be taken. For example, between 1923 and 2002, the license for the quarry was increased to 43,500, thanks to you. So I'm asking you how much these numbers have increased in your eleven-year period. You sold our streams in the remotest corners of Asia Minor. You massacred 23,000 hectares of forest for the HESEs. The legacy of the great Ataturk, you have transformed the Ataturk Forest Farm from the 1st degree of status to the 3rd degree. You cut down nearly 10,000 trees and sacrificed them to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's dream of a palace. From whichever side you hired, you're running rents for the Director General of the Forest. You cut down over 15,000 trees for the road through the ODTU forest. You have released your TOMA, your gasses upon our student citizens, who call this massacre a stop. Once again, I congratulate our young ones on the struggle. Mr. Secretary says I'll make up for it somewhere else for the trees that have been slaughtered. Look what the Minister has to say that the forest is impossible to make up for. Young people, I congratulate you again on this challenge. On the third bridge, the Minister will be cut down 381 thousand trees. When he says, "This is a murder during the mayoral term," he said. Now I'm asking, what changed and they didn't stick up for it? For the third airport, 2 million 330,000 and millions of trees for Canal Istanbul will be slaughtered for a runt. It's very painful that you're destroying Istanbul's lung by cutting up 8,715 hectares of forest without permission from the third bridge and third airport and the CED report for the roads. On the third article added to TMMOB Act 6235, which the Fascist September 12th did not apply, you linked the control of the Forestry Engineers' Chamber to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. So, we're removing the Darbe constitution. You've taken refuge in the constitution of coup to silence a vocational room. Woe to you! Is this your advanced democracy? That's your reckoning with September 12th? (HPP) You're trying to silence the Forestry Engineers' Room with this fascist administration. Stop inspecting the Forest Engineers' Room, inspect corruption claims about your Ministry and come to us with court reports after that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We've heard there's been arrests here at Cide Forestry Management last week. We haven't seen any public statements about these arrests. Would you explain these arrests, Mr. Secretary? My high-value lawmakers, the helicopters hired to fight forest fires were paid $1,800 rent, but were allegedly rented for 9.200 in your term. It's, okay, it's leased seven times more. Don't you smell something bad about this lease, Mr. Secretary? In accordance with Article 170 of our Constitution, you have made it a runt to sell the 2/B Act to those outside of our people and citizens who need it, but you have failed. Now I'd like to ask you: even though our villagers have no income from this share, you didn't give it to the forest villager who didn't get a 1 per cent share when we were supposed to be given what's called Article 2/B, but the Republican People's Party defended it. In your time, how are you going to go to this election and get a vote from the jungle peasant who can't even get a 1% cut? You've appointed bureaucrats who are loyal only to your own unions, and you've continued to appoint these bureaucrats. I, in short, offer my deepest love and respect to our ministry, who has massacred such a forest and persecuted and cut down the forest.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0017par0161	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fifth speaker is Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0018par0164	Mr. President, I'd like to start by saying that I can't control the spending and operations of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2012, because under the direction of political power, the Supreme Court has not sent reports to the Turkish National Assembly, that it has filed these reports, that my nation has given me budgetary rights, that we have been able to determine whether or not the taxes of our citizens are being paid in accordance with the way that they are being spent, and that I protested by the administration of the Court and the Court. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we have two ministries where the environment is handed over to the city and to the construction sector by the decree issued in the early 24th term. Both ministries are governed by a sense of Ranta, destruction and unfortunately destruction, as a result of the mentality of their rulers, contrary to their purpose and organizational philosophy. The ministry's non-scientific science, participation, and, of course, of course, public benefit do not occur in its practices and its activities. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of these ministries is the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. When you look at this Ministry's mandate, you find that water resources are protected and being used in a sustainable way. Even though that's the ministry's job, what do we come up with in practice? Unfortunately for us in practice, as you all know, the HES projects. So, what are the consequences of all this? On the contrary to the mission description, the changing or drying creeks, the dehydrated land, gardens, fields, villages, and in general environmental and natural destruction. What did we say? A ministry that serves not nature and nature, but Ranta and Talan. Of course, there's another consequence of HES practices, which is that there are things that are done to peasants who want to protect the land they live in, there are things that are done to old people, women, children, sticks, beatings. Of course, there are lawsuits against any opposition, which are the triumph of AKP power at this time. A lot of people have been sued. But there was one person who had a quality. A 17 - year - old girl was sued by Layla. The girl was charged with beating up dozens of gendarmes by herself. We were with Layla as the Republican People's Party. We followed his case in Erzurum, and Layla was acquitted of that case, of that unlawful accusation. He was a symbol of the struggle against the HESS, with courage, with determination. A 17-year-old girl will always be remembered and remembered for her struggle. The AKP, along with HES practices, will be known and remembered as those who persecuted those children, those villagers. Dear MPs, last weekend Prime Minister Tekirdağ was in our province. He held election rallies, as he has always done, using the government's vault under the name of the collective opening ceremonies, introducing candidates for mayor at the so-called openings of this facility. But I'll tell you this: Tekirdağ also opened some places where his people showed no interest, and Mr. Secretary was there, Tekirdağ was in our province. I wanted to examine the openings as a district MP, but they never wanted to give us the list. We got the list, however difficult, but there were some interesting instruments that we saw when we looked at them. Most of the places the Prime Minister opened haven't finished yet, some haven't even started yet. Let me give you an example, Mr. Secretary, you were cutting your ribbons. Look at this picture. This is a picture of a mosque you opened, a mosque you opened, and you cut its ribbon. This mosque is still under construction, its minaret is half. Other than that, there were many other similar projects where you cut off his ribbon and opened it. Aren't there any investments that ended? They were there. In the places where you opened it, there were investments made by local sources, especially by the County Special Administration, the City General Assembly. However, there is a problem here for the Prime Minister, and there is also a problem for you because Tekirdağ County Special Administration has joined the Republican People's Party in the 2009 local elections and has begun to serve. So, the works you opened, the ones you praised for the AKP, are not yours, but the works of the Republican People's Party's Special Administration of the People's Party of Tekirdağ. (HPP) Well, the Prime Minister may not see them, but our people do. Since he had already seen it, he took from you both the municipality of Tekirdağ and the province's private administration in 2009 and gave it to the Republican People's Party. The esteemed MPs, Prime Minister, said last week -- as we say -- in candidate promotional rallies from the state budget, it's the same as, not the job -- it's not the solving of Ergene, it's the political ramifications -- it's dirty because the municipalities around it, the Republican People's Party municipalities, don't clean up Ergene. It's a claim that no one believes, even those who say so. First of all, everyone knows that teenage pollution isn't because of the people who live there. You say that the people who live there are polluting Ergene, but those who are polluting Ergene are not domestic waste, but industrial waste is the cause of the pollution of Ergene. It's the pollution of industrial companies that use underground waters and discharge the Ergene River without cleaning these waters. Now, you don't know the source of the problem, you don't know the cause of the problem, and you say you're going to solve Ergene. You can't convince anyone with this once. You have nothing to say to Republican People's Party municipalities, but you're talking about it, which is why you aim to vote in Thrace. And let's just say, if you want to bring it up, if you want to argue in that ring, if you want to fight there, we're in. Look, this is where the Ergene River entered the Choorite district. This is where he entered Çorý district, you can see the pollution. Now, this photo was taken at the entrance of Çorý district. And where did Ergene go until he arrived in Çororý district? He passed through Çerkekköy district and three towns. So, Çerkezköy district, Kızılpınar village, Veliköy village, Velimeşe district, 4 municipalities, three of which are AKP People's Party members, one of whom is Republican People's Party. I mean, if we look at it from your point of view, you'll be defeated there, and you'll have nothing to say there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, first of all, what you're going to do is, you're not going to look at this as a political issue, you're going to look at it as a person who has cancer on the edge of Ergene, you're going to change your mind, you're going to change your mind, you're going to change people's politics. You will do so, not to win political votes, but to serve people. Change your head, if you can't change your head, people have changed your heads in Tracia, and in the near future, all of Turkey will change those men. I say, "I salute the Grand Assembly."
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0019par0175	It's time for a change.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0020par0176	Thank you. The last speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Melda Onur, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0021par0178	Mr. Secretary, dear Regents, this side is a little low, but I wish you a very good budget. In 2012, I was unable to oversee the expenditures and procedures made by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs as necessary because under the direction of political power, the Court issued reports that it had sent to the Oversight, TBMM. He's sitting here very well for this Ministry's budget. Using my nation's budget rights to me, I was prevented by the government and the Supreme Court to determine whether or not the taxes paid by our citizens were being spent in accordance with the way they were paid. I start by protesting this situation. And I'd also like to continue my words with a memorial today. As we speak here, Istanbul is crying now, Turkey is crying because we also lost the mother of the beloved Mehmet Ayvallıtas. The son couldn't bear his suffering, and Mrs. Fadime lost her life, and now she has a funeral, and I pray to God for his mercy. And last year, I talked to you about the Water Institute budget, and I asked you a question when I was closing my speech, Mr. Secretary. I said: can you answer that? At a joint meeting with Mr. Energy Minister earlier, Mr. Secretary said: "Ya, I actually told the Minister, let's not do so much HES." They're hurting nature, they're hurting citizens, and I know that when Mr. AKP MPs go to their districts, if there are HES (hectors) in that area, they're reacting. We know that, we see that, and some of these regions voted for the ruling party at high rates. He asked, said, and I asked you that. Now, I'm going to add a second question to Mr. Energy Minister's words. In recent days, our Minister of Environment said: "Yes, the HESEs below 10 megawatts really do harm to nature, and we will not allow it." Now, as this budget is being discussed, Mr. Secretary, have you reviewed this budget over this exit of Mr. Minister of Environment, how have you evaluated it? Now, if you call it six megawatts of 10 megawatts, it's a serious number, and you know it, because there are a lot of H.E.E.D.s running around in the 9.5s, I think, because we don't want CED below certain rates. Now, there's a HES number that you give, that you do, in the 2,000s. Now, how much of this is under 10 megawatts? I can sit down and count, but there's some bureaucratic friends here, so maybe you could mention them in your speech. How many are below 10 megawatts, and are you, as the Minister of Environment, going to cancel these HESESTs as the government states? Now, one of them was the village of Ahmedler that I visited recently. In Antalya, the village of Ahmedler, there is a beautiful canyon, Ahmedler Canyon, and there is a peasant. Here on time, here's a HES -9.96. The project came up on the agenda, but something like this -- it's based on Manavgat, here's the governor's office -- here's the CED report, a little bit based on the governor's thing, depending on the approval of the local government -- but he hung up a paper on an appeal, but he hung it up on Manavgat's subsidiary. Governor de Erzurum Governor. We know the governor of Erzurum very well from the struggles of HES in Erzurum, when women in Tortum were dragged from their hair and from their sheets. Unfortunately, the governor of that era. I've talked to him a few times. In fact, I'd like to remind you that the governor sent two ambulances without sending his soldiers, his gendarmes, his law enforcement. That governor came to Antalya. Yes, the same square battle took place in Antalya, in the village of Ahmedler. Why did it happen? Because no one's seen that one month's appeal report hanging from the Manavgat Crown. Anyway, it's not just Manavgat. There's a thing called havza. We're supposed to be running a basin. The accent takes care of it, the other 13-14 feeds the ground. One day, the villagers looked, and the ladle arrived. What happened? Here, we'll make HES here. The peasant has resisted. A stubborn peasant, a very old, six hundred-year-old village, and they built tents there, and when we got there, we saw a hidden paradise, where tourism could be made. It's already being done, and there's a rafting area hosting 5,000 tourists. It's been quite a struggle. There have been battles called the battle of the villagers. I'm telling you, the shootings were sprayed with special security pepper spray. I don't know if private security is authorized to spray pepper spray, not that I know of. I was going to ask our Home Secretary about that. I'll ask you right here, but I'll also file a written question motion. It's an environment like this. Now, the governor said, let's see how legal Ahmedler Canyon is. Now, first of all, it's wrong to just hang on to Manavgat. Come on, you found him legal. Secondly, the project report says that because the area of the canyon regulator and HES project is a virgin, no CED study has been conducted along the project line. You can decide that CED is not necessary without looking or seeing. We have a dear environmental lawyer friend, who says: "They like a stream over Google Earth and set up HES on it." That's exactly the case. Secondly, the location of the plant and regulatory structure has only been examined. Due to topographical conditions, it has not been moved along the transmission line. In certain project studies, if the State Environment and Forestry Directorate wants to open up the roads, there will be CED studies along the transmission line. Now that I, our Minister of Environment, have made such a suggestion, he was talking about at least micro HES (at least at some point) under 10, I hope they will be given up soon. Now, lastly, I've given you a question proposal, which is very recent, and my friends have given me the answer. And this is where I told you that we were wrong in your statements about the HESES. In this context, I asked, "What are the mistakes that you have detected? " You answered: "We made a mistake, and we thought that there was no need to introduce the error to the public, not because of the production of HESEs. We are wrong. There is no need to introduce the people now. There is no need to introduce the people, not to the public. The problem is here; you will get the approval of the people, not to the public. Oh, other than that, how do I think the HES is supposed to be done? You have to introduce it to the private sector. I mean, without seeing the area, it's not because the topographical properties are difficult, it's not a jungle that's untamed, it's going to come and look, it's going to write down what's going on with the CED report. Now, as long as we go at this point, these fights are going to continue a lot longer. Mr. Secretary, as I end my words here in the next 2014, I wish you all a good day and a good budget, wishing you all a good day and not to speak here for the sake of the HES fighting, and especially for the sake of the HES. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0022par0195	Thank you. Mehmet Erdogan is the first speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0023par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Interior. I salute your grand delegation and 15 AKP MPs following the budget and the General Assembly. The most important issue of this budget, unfortunately, is the Court's reports this year, as it was last year. Unfortunately, we're all here trying to hold a budget meeting where there are no Court reports, the account is not considered, and the account is not taken into account, and we're all trying to do it together. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as we all know, the Home Secretary's basic duty is to ensure peace in our country, the safety of our citizens' lives and property. However, the AKP's power is straining society for various reasons. First of all, justice in income distribution during the AKP administration has been extraordinarily corrupted. Again, during the AKP's rule, multi-directional psychological pressure has been exerted on society. People believe that they're being followed, plugged, their phones are being tapped, more than they've ever been in any time in the history of the Republic. As seen in many operations, it is unfortunately true that there was a wiretap. I've warned power from here in my speeches before. I'm warning you one more time today: your technology is never enough to listen to everyone, but Almighty God keeps a record of all of us. One day, if you don't want to put your own actions on the street, stop attacking people's privacy. Again, at this point, I'd like to draw your attention to something else. The power that puts everyone under pressure in various ways, for some reason, has difficulty tracking, monitoring, and capturing terrorists, smugglers, drug traffickers, people who provoke social events. Like those who did the Reyhan attack, dozens of our citizens died first, that attack took place, and then those terrorists could be caught. During the AKP's rule, crimes of theft, drug use, drug production and drug trafficking, trafficking, violence against women, violence against children, and sexual abuse have occurred in the first place. I'm afraid the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been inadequate in the fight against these crimes. At the point of dealing with these crimes, some social measures, police measures and criminal provisions must be dealt with together, and society must be protected from these crimes and criminals. Of course, there is another reason for the AKP's failure in this matter. The AKP has become unable to go out on the street because of its wrong domestic policy, wrong economic policy and wrong foreign policy. Today, Mr. Prime Minister, if he's going to a university, thousands of police are being transferred there first, followed by Mr. Prime Minister, who can go to college. Again, the situation is no different in the Prime Minister's domestic trips. On December 30, 1st, Prime Minister Mugla arrived. In this programme, the government, which finds the protection of the Muğla police ineffective, has led hundreds of police from different provinces to the Lambla. Today the same is happening in Antalya, and last week it happened in Thrace. However, police and gendarmes in Muğla are able to provide security at the usual time. Even when the population of Mughla reaches 3-4 million in the summer, additional security forces are not being transferred to Mugla. If you are afraid of going out into the street, sit down instead of making the citizen suffer with extreme security measures. Of course, if you remove the police from their primary job, from the fight against crime, from the fight against the criminal, only if you assign the police to protect the Prime Minister and members of the government, the crimes will increase, and the criminals will wander the streets. In order to fight crime and crime, you have to use the police in the original business. Protecting the Prime Minister, protecting the members of the government should stop being a police business. It is not possible for a government that fears a citizen to continue as a power. AKP power is also very afraid of those seeking rights. He is harsh to our workers, to the servants, to the workers, to the villagers, and to the workers who oppose the privatisation of Milas, to the people who seek his due. Our workers, who resist privatisation in Milas, know about the privatisation, the damage themselves and the region will suffer without privatisation. Mr. Secretary, please, don't use disproportionate force against them, they have no intention of harming anyone, they're just trying to protect their rights. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have come to our country with thousands of Syrians, whose number no one knows for sure, due to the wrong Syrian policy. How much of this stays in refugee camps? How long does Syria live in our country besides refugee camps? What do these Syrians do where they are, what do they eat, what do they drink, how do they live? Really, is our government aware or aware of the security weaknesses created by these? How many Syrian refugees did the AKP make Turkish citizens? Syrian refugees made Turkish citizens were made citizens for what reasons? Is it true that Syrian refugees will be citizens until the election? Did you give citizenship to Syrian refugees who were alleged to be walking around with the Republic of Turkey's birth certificate, and are you hiding them from us, or is someone giving fake birth certificates to Syrian refugees? These are really questions that are troubling our society. I'm asking these questions on behalf of our nation, and hopefully, I'm waiting for your answer. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as Mr. Minister's budget and Plan Commission presentation has shown, the number of private security personnel has increased in recent years, and as of today, the number of private security personnel has exceeded the number of police employed by our state. And a lot of certified people with private security training are looking forward to a job in this sector. Dear friends, private security needs to be put on the table without a new social injury, and serious measures must be taken. If there is no serious adjustment in this matter before the time is passed, the outcome will be dire. The majority of our citizens who work as private security officers are employed at minimum wage to provide cheap security without a union, without job security. Again, many institutions ignore experience in the security sector, professional savings, but employ young staff under certain age. What will our young people in this industry do when they're over a certain age, and how will they bring bread home? While there is time, education, employment, quota should be connected to a system, a human plan must be done in this field, and each institution must be forced to employ at a certain rate. In addition, a minimum-paying private security guard should not be employed. Security must be stopped from being a cheap service area. The Coast Guard must be strengthened, and any trafficking on our beaches, including human trafficking, must be fought enough. Again, it is an important threat for all of us to have personal data in the media today. Mr. Prime Minister says no one should publish the state's privacy. But, Mr. Prime Minister, you reveal the information of the state and the nation, then blame others. What kind of mentality is that? Please take care of the privacy of the state and of the nation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, with the bag of laws issued in July, the salaries of our muhtars have been fixed a little bit, but the economic and social rights of our city council members have been forgotten, and they need a viable solution with their duties. Wherever he goes, the Prime Minister is opening projects by the head of property management, but ignoring them when he comes to the point of equating the rights of the first-class owners of the 1st-class estate with them in the country under equal conditions. And this problem has to be solved. Again, in July's bag of legislation, 55-year-olds were put on the line of employment by the rangers, 55-year-olds were given pensions, 15-year-olds were given their services, but our guardians were forgotten who could not meet the 15-year-old service requirement. We need a study to take the village rangers' victimization and take care of them. So far, they've done very important missions in the fight against terrorism, taking on very important functions in this regard. And in the coming period, you'll need them more and more because spring will end in your so-called expansion practices. You said that terrorists would withdraw from Turkey and lay down arms. But that never happened. As the Prime Minister himself has repeatedly admitted, only 15 per cent of the terrorists have gone abroad, other government officials have expressed on various platforms. Again, in this so-called opening process, everything is going to be fine. You said, "It's going to be fine." But things don't look that way. If all is well, why is the PKK not leaving weapons and taking some militants abroad, but most importantly, the PKK has taken thousands of our young people to the mountains in ways it has never done in 30 years. If it's all good, what's the reason for these young people getting up the mountain? If there won't be any more noise, if the guns won't speak, will these young people pick flowers on the mountain? When are you going to realize you can't go in the sack with the snake? If everything's turned to roses, why is the head of the snake in the kandil, raising its head at once, threatening you and our country? You will not speak out against those who threaten Turkey from Kandil, and then you will say, "Everything is a rose." There's no such thing, guys. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's been days that you can't really believe. The other day, on social media, I saw a photo of the Minister. For years, he posed for our nation with an artist who cursed at our government and lived by him. I'm really sorry, Mr. Secretary, because I'd like to express from here that I don't consider myself to be a man who's lived in the service of the state. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we didn't get this country as a Christmas present. Our acolyte fought against seven heifers to entrust this country to us on every front. If we're going to respect the memory of the apocalypse, we need to do something if we're going to realize that this state that we're left with is our legacy, that we can't share it with anyone. We have been entrusted with 40 thousand brothers who have died in this country, and in that medicine, and in Çanakkale, and in the War of Salvation, and in the fight against terror for thirty years. Our job is to take care of this trust. And it is not for any soul to be treacherous to its trust. That's what I want everyone to know, and I salute your high council. I wish the 2014 budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0024par0222	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Enver Erdem, Elazig MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0025par0225	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Police General Directorate and Gendarme General Command in 2014. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, the 2014 budget is the same as the 11 budgets that AKP had done before, that no one has a claim to solve problems, that there is a routine budget... that shows that the economy is not getting better, although very different things said, that the pensioner, the employee, the minimum payer, the contractor, 4/B (b) people, the farmer, who doesn't support the 4/C) people, who don't support the farmer enough, who don't support the farmers in terms of growing up, who are behind the average of the republic's history, who don't improve the problems of our unemployment goals, and who don't improve our employment. We see that the only direct increase in this budget is social benefits, which is about 15 percent. The main reason for this increase is that in the upcoming election, the power will be more generous with the cost of washing machines, refrigerators, coals, beans, and pasta that will be given to poor citizens in exchange for their votes. As a result of changes made in the Court's Law and the Court's Court review of the financial tables of public institutions and institutions, the Court is unable to make audits on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today, without the Court reports, the budget final account transactions are discussed and approved. As in other areas, power escapes control, leaving the reckoning to later periods or to the afterlife. Dear lawmakers, I wish that the 2014 budget would be a blessing, even though it is not enough to solve the problems of the Police General Directorate and General Command employees. It must be ensured that the security and security of the community, the protection of the basic rights and freedoms of citizens, the establishment of state authority, and many of the tasks of our security forces, such as the establishment of law enforcement, are able to perform their duties in a comfortable and peaceful environment, removing the problems they face while carrying out their duties. Today, from police officer to police commissioner, we know that there are separate problems with police personnel who work in every position and rank, whose number is 250,000, and the members of the General Command staff, whose number is around 60,000, who work separately. Instead of resolving the problems of public servants in the security service class, the constant procrastination and disregarding of the problems have brought these problems to a massive scale and has made them inextricably insurmountable. Our security forces, on the one hand, are being suspended from their legal duties due to illegal, irrational, and irrational practices, are also encouraged to push and over their legal limits due to the wrong practices of power, administrative errors, while they are forced to deal with issues related to autonomy rights, social rights, pension rights, working conditions. We both know that every ranking officer, from police officer to police commissioner, has their own problems, and you know it. To solve these problems, we offer law proposals, question proposals, research proposals, we ask them at every opportunity; you promise every election before the Prime Minister, especially Mr. Prime Minister, we will solve the problems. You say, "We will solve the problems," but you don't solve them. The last time Mr. Home Secretary made a statement to the newspapers, we'll make some arrangements. We're working on it. We'll fix the police pensions. You say. If you're really sincere about solving the problems of the police, please answer these questions clearly and clearly, Mr. Secretary. When you speak from the stand in a moment, 250,000 police officers will be following your speech here, and they really want to hear from here how you respond to the words you've given so far, what you're going to say. Dear MPs, we all have values, beliefs, cultures, similar, identical. Now, when we think that previous promises have not been fulfilled, everyone knows that promises are important in our culture. So, instead of making promises just to get their votes, which of these questions I'm going to count from this stand, please address it from here, 250,000 police officers will be somewhat relieved. First of all, Mr. Secretary, are you or are you not going to give 3,600 additional indicators to our officers who have a 90 percent college degree? You promised to do it again. Are you really going to pay for the police's hard work? Of course, the 100 lira and 150 lira amount of police work is not the equivalent of the police's overwork, given that police work in the world's practices, in the sense that the wages in developed countries are overpaid. Will you raise our police to a human pension when he retires? Mr. Secretary, you have your own statements, both in the past and in the present, and in the Prime Minister's case, they have a statement. When they retire, they can't retire because they don't have a salary to support their children, to pay their rent. So, are you going to fix this? From here to these people, please, answer me. Are you going to cover the divisional salary differences in the police force? Are you going to compensate for the salary differences between sensitive, public, traffic, police officers who work at the police station and agencies such as intelligence, terrorism, Prime Ministerial Protection? There are salary differences among the police commissioners. Since these have been paid separately, depending on status and authority, only 100-150 from around 1,500 police commissioners have been victimised by other police chiefs because they have been able to take advantage of severance from their authorities. Are you or are you not going to eliminate the status issues of the police and senior police officers again? Please explain this from here. Dear lawmakers, these are not the only problems our security forces face. The process, called peace in its name, or peace, has unfortunately resulted in the state, the soldier, the police, or the failure to leave their headquarters. The process, called solution, began to reveal developments that would result in the dissolution of the state, the dissolution of the nation. Moral superiority in the region has become a separatist organization. Do not provoke peace on soldiers and police in the region. Pressure has been created. The military and police can't even carry out their legal duties, let alone operate. The military convoy has been responded to the rocket and heavy armed attack by terrorists in Nusaybin. The General Staff of the General Staff, issued in a statement in the form of self-defense, has been made history with the most vulnerable and embarrassing statement in Turkish history. So, what's the separatist organization doing? He's terroring, propaganda, martyring village rangers, burning down cities, raiding houses, bombing houses, conducting inspections with the law enforcement teams they've built; the governor is throwing down trustees, controlling the economy in the region, building PKK courts; in short, NG is running the area with a parallel state structure. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Interior, we don't allow the parallel state. They say it's a promise, but it's only a promise. The application creates a region in which the laws of the Republic of Turkey do not apply, with only the rules of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in effect. We've said it over and over, even the deaf sultan has heard it, and you haven't heard it as the only AKP MPs. This process is not an innocent process. This process is another state from within the state, another nation from the nation, another flag from within the flag, another country from within the country. Step by step is the project to establish four-part independent Kurdistan, which is the name of a non-warring project created by the legal regulations of the AKP's rule, which mortgages the unity and unity of our nation and is officially named during Diyarbakır's disgrace, and we will withdraw the bill in the nation. As the National Movement Party, we say that these regulations divide the country, and you say that we have made arrangements, that the country is not divided, that the country is not divided, that it is not divided. You are unaware, that you are unaware. You're in a hurry to split the country's national education and strike the final blow. Dear lawmakers, we are all witnessing that all the issues promised in the talks between the MIT and the PKK in Oslo have been carried out one by one. You have met the request for federation, autonomy, if not the strengthening of local governments in the document signed in Oslo with the regulation of the Metropolitan City Law by your ruling vote. Kurdish's second official language, basic language defence regulations, TRT Shesh, Kurdish's teaching in courses, elective language in schools, education in private schools in the final democratic package, and finally the closure of the classrooms, leaving the education in the area completely under the control of municipalities, which, you know, when closing the classrooms, you're handing over education to the structures that are called EDEV, which are also opened by municipalities, who are also sending terrorists to the mountains. With these arrangements, you fulfill your promises one by one. One of the things that was agreed on in Oslo was the establishment of the commission to investigate the facts. You, the esteemed AKP MPs, have fulfilled this request. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you also created and employed BDP as a companion, even though the Commission for Researching Social Peace Ways and Evaluating the Solution Process did not include members of the National Movement Party and Republican People's Party. Dear lawmakers, reports in the newspapers that soldiers and police who served in the fight against terrorism in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, said to have been accepted during talks with PKK members in Oslo have been indicted as war criminals. Yesterday, TV programs began to develop programs on why Ergenekon had not been spread to the east of Fırat. And since it's in the media, it'll be something we'll be dealing with soon. Of course, now you, the AKP classic, will strongly object to these statements, deny them. And then you're going to say that it's the right thing to discuss it and talk about it. Then you'll warm the citizens up to the idea. After that, you will act on the basis of your numerical majority in parliament and say that you have the power and the power to make all the arrangements. As a result, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation, who do not serve the unity and unity of our country and our nation, whose name is called the process, from Oslo to Habur, from there to Imralı, who immediately renounce the wrong policies of our national pride, and who are thinking about future elections, in order to follow the national policies of future generations.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0026par0246	Thank you. The third speaker for the National Movement Party Group is Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0249	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and the Director-General of Forestry. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, indeed, all speakers have stated, what budget of the Forest and Water Affairs Ministry shall we discuss in this environment where the audits are not available, when the tax from citizens should be audited by the Court's audit and it should be used under the report? I'm going to ask for an example or two. For example, in your Water Management General Directorate, Mr. Secretary, is there any audit, or is there any issue about the loss of the public, by canceling a bid for 1.5 trillion dollars and giving it back to 2.5 trillion dollars? How do we control them, how do we see them? I mean, how do we get this out, this deal? When we don't see this audit report where the audit is supposed to be transparent, how do we know if it's true? Or does your Water Management Director fly to Istanbul every weekend, because his house is in Istanbul? Does this get paid for the time it's gone? I mean, every weekend, if his house is there, if he's going to get there, and he's taking the plane money and the money, how are we going to check it out? Do you mind if we don't check these out? Now, we need to see these.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0028par0252	He wouldn't do that!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0253	Now, since I've made some claims here, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Forest has filed a lawsuit for $10,000 in compensation; I'll go ahead and get it. I mean, I'm willing to give you $10,000 as the right of the term, as long as there's no damage to the property of the public. What did we say? I'm saying the same thing, and we say, Mr. Secretary, here, let's say, did 10 trillion dollars of corruption happen in your embezzlement ministry or not? I'm telling you, I'm asking you loud and clear.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0029par0255	Have him send it to the prosecutors and get on with it. Why are you...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0256	Yes, the Minister will answer, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0030par0257	Are you the minister?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0258	All right? The Minister says: "It's done." I say... look, the esteemed MPs, what I'm saying is that there are 10 trillion...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0031par0259	If you have it, give it to the D.A.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0260	Is there a general manager's signature here as a expense officer or not? The question I'm asking is, is there or isn't your general manager's signature as a expense officer? Yeah, it's the general manager's signature as a charger for embezzlement of 10 trillion, as a expense officer. There must be some negligence here. Now, Congressman or Minister, you, in the forest, in the mountains, because two trees have been cut down in thousands of hectares -- look, two trees have been cut down in thousands of trees -- you start with the worker there, the forest ranger, the forest manager, the forest business manager, the forest manager, the forest manager, you prosecute. Or 250 square meters, because there's an outlet somewhere -- you start with the custodian there, and you judge 46 people up to the district manager because he has a paraffin, even though he doesn't have a signature. We don't consider ourselves court-martialed, but is there or isn't there 10 trillion in corruption? I do. You can't make an undersecretary of the general director who doesn't see this neglect, even if it's neglect here, that's our opinion. We'll go to court on this, we'll express it, we'll defend it like lions, Mr. Secretary. With these and 10 billion in compensation, we're not gonna back down from that. Now, again, look, here's what I'm saying, you're sending inspectors around. Ten-and-a-half years of me- one of the inspectors comes in, one goes out, one goes out, one goes out, and I wait more.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0032par0263	They're coming because you're regional manager.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0264	Yes, let him come. Now, from here, I call to the consciences, and I say, "Oh, in Gallipoli."
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0033par0266	Why don't you send some inspectors?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0267	Look, I'm saying that in Gallipoli...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0033par0268	I'm transferring you to the Home Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0269	In Gallipoli, in the historic national park simulation center, where the memory of our martyrs is, you're describing corruption in your book, corruption. This is the Supreme Court. I'll send you to the Supreme Court, Mr. Secretary, not the Inspector. Allah will grant us this power, and you will answer to him on the Supreme Court, and I'll make it very clear.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0033par0271	Mr. Veysel is the bomb expert! A valuable bomb expert!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0272	Yes, now, here, in the book, the undersecretary confesses himself: a firm won the tender, but we paid for the company that won the case. He says, "He gave it to you." He says, "It's safe for the contractor." He says, "He didn't eat it, he wanted profit deprivation." He says, "It's a profit deprivation." So give me my profit because of this contract. Now, what's happening to him? They're being given, too, the man, the winning firm, is withdrawing from the tender, and the other firm continues. What's going on, lawmakers? Fifty-eight trillion goes up to 80 trillion, and even though it's not in the contract here, the commission is being pressured to sign the rights to electricity and sound levels, even though it's not in the contract. The commission says: "These are not in the condition and the contract, we can't sign it." What is he doing this time? The commission is being changed; one of the commissioners is being transferred to Van. One of them is resigning. Well, aren't we going to talk about it now? There's no report, that information's out there. Now you send inspectors to everything. We've been talking about this for a year. Why don't you send it, Inspector? Why don't you send an inspector?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0034par0275	Justice and Development Party (AKP) is a
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0276	Now, if you keep the audit issues hidden, I'm going to try to get these information from right to left, from left, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, to here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, to here, to here, from here, to here, from here, to here, from here, to here, to here, from here, from here, to here, from here, from here, from here, from here, to here, to here, to here. Yes, lawmakers, we have entered with the Court's reports, but today global warming and climate change are the most important threat to our world. In this environment where global warming and climate change threaten the world, the most important thing to do in terms of fighting it is to preserve our forest presence and increase our forest existence. The Forest General Directorate, which is aware of this, has done some really important work by the forestry organization for a hundred and seventy-four years. For example, the Terakos dune wooding of 50 per cent of Istanbul, the 50 to 55,000 hectares of green wooding that surround Ankara, the Adana Akyatan sand dune wooding, the Antalya Belek sandul wooding, the Pozanti, the Ulukish, the Bangit erosion projects, really, hundreds of huge projects like this, are the sweat, sweat, labor of Turkish forestmen. These studies have been done for a hundred and seventy-five years, but soon Mr. Secretary will come out and tell the history of Turkish forestry as if it had begun with him, but the Minister is innocent. Look, he works with executives so much that every time the minister opens up, water flows and laughs, Veysel Hodja pours out the water.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0035par0278	His eyes are farting!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0279	He protects the woods. When he's recited poems, he thinks that the History of the Ministry of Forest began with me, I wrote the history of the Ministry of Forestry.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0035par0280	He's never known the jungle before, people!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0281	Now, this is what we've done with the plants, and this is what we've done with the trees. For God's sake, I ask you, have the nursery been shut down or not?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0035par0282	They hung up.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0283	Why did you shut down the nursery? Now, you're opening it. Now, they've reopened it. Why did you turn it off? You closed it. They sold the saplings. They couldn't look, they turned it back on. Ya, there were 17-18 plantations while I was in Ankara in 1992, while I was doing Forestry Manager and Forestry Management Directorate. And he also says that when I was chief of operations, I couldn't find saplings. When I was chief of operations, we hand out thousands of plants to municipalities, not just as chiefs of schools; not by hanging pictures on highways, not by TVs, newspapers, not by advertising, but as chefs, thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of seedlings to schools, municipalities. There are 14, 15... behind you is the Director General of Forestry, General Manager of Desertization, show me. Anyway, time is running out, and I'm going to say, look, today we said there are forests in front of global warming. Our forest engineers can't get a job, our forest engineers need to get on staff. We have 5 million hectares of young forest. Each year, 1,200,000 hectares of young forests are required to be maintained. Here we are, sided with the Kyoto Protocol. While Kyoto Protocol is investing billions of dollars... we need to get these forest engineers to work, I'm telling you loud and clear. This Monday, my young forest engineer friends are taking action. For God's sake, listen to these forest engineers, we can't reach them. They're coming to us. Listen, let's get these things together, and we'll do this much work. Again, really, there are nearly 2,000 fires every year, and between 8,000 and 10,000 hectares, our forest area burns. I'm here to thank all the forestry workers for their sacrifice in fighting fires. For this purpose, 108 of our colleagues have been martyred in the fight against forest fires to protect the forests. I wish them all God's mercy. Five months and twenty-nine days these temps work, Mr. Secretary, that's all there is to it. There's rehab, there's tree planting, there's forest maintenance. What if you put these temps on staff for five months and twenty-nine days? These are six months, one day, what will they eat, what will they drink, O ruling party, O government? Make an effort to recruit them, Mr. Secretary. Now, of course, Mr. Secretary, in our meeting with the Commission, he said that... you all know the Gazi compound, and there's a struggle for it. When we make it very clear here, Mr. Secretary, not one tree will be cut down here. CHP MPs, MPHPs, all parties' MPs asked for this. Now look here, you see here, tens of thousands of trees, presidential palaces, please.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0036par0289	They've planted new trees!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0290	All the trees have been cut down. After that, he says, "Are you saying that the Minister is lying?" We're not. Are we saying that the minister is lying? I don't say, I don't mean to lie to the minister of the Turkish Republic government, but the reports are there, the facts are there.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0037par0291	And they deny their own souls.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0292	Now, look, we're not going to go out there again, and we're not going to give you your rights. We will not remove you from your land until we have made your administrative buildings and your social facilities, without making your dwellings. The minister and his general manager, who said, "We will not leave your homes." So what happened, what just happened?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0038par0293	They built a palace, a palace.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0294	Now, the palace is almost finished. Those dedicated workers of the forest headquarters, the minister who was about to tell you, the lion forestmen, the tiger foresteers, all of these dedicated workers were left homeless, scattered like freckles.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0039par0296	What happened to the 2/B, 2/B?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0297	Some there, some here, in cold places, where they didn't have tables, they crawled into a structure. Not enough, as of January 5th, 55 people live in the residence. Mr. Secretary, for God's sake, I'm asking you: in this snow, in winter, in the apocalypse -- we all have children -- where do you fit into your conscience until January 5th? Where will they go?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0040par0299	Ask him if he exists.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0041par0300	Black conscience, black conscience!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0301	Now -- not enough time -- he's taking custody of the Forest Engineers Room, Mr. Secretary. In the period of the revolution, Mr. Minister of the Forest decided to build the structure that was launched in 1983, but not even the revolutionary government had the courage to implement it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0042par0302	He's on the same road.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0027par0303	The goal is to take over the Forest Engineers Room, but the Forest Engineers Room, the Forest Engineers, will not support your practices, and you will not. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Two inspectors sent it to the room, have you ever heard of it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0043par0307	He's sending it because there are elections, and the elections are coming up, and they're going to oversee it, and they're going to oversee all the institutions.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0044par0308	There's a decree coming in from the other rooms, not just that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0043par0309	No NGOs, no dictatorships, more fascism.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0045par0310	Mr. President, can I have two minutes instead of Mr. Muharrem?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0044par0311	He's borrowing money.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0046par0312	He's giving, he's giving.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0047par0313	Okay. Yes, I'll give you two minutes to replace Mr Varlı. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0048par0316	Go on, brother, go on.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0049par0317	Now, dear friends, we're talking about advanced democracy. The Justice and Development Party's group talks about advanced democracy when its vice presidents come out. And where are you in the Forestry Engineers Room, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0050par0318	On top of it!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0049par0319	He's withdrawing from me -- I'm a forest engineer, and there's four forest engineers in Congress -- with the forest engineer's dues, with their income from their own work, there's no money from the Ministry of the Forest. The rooms, you know, also control organs when they're selected...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0051par0320	Talk to the general manager.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0049par0321	I'm looking at you, Mr. Director General. ... They also select TMMOB control organs and their own control organs, control organs. For God's sake, what advanced democracy are you talking about? You didn't shut me up. Of course, he's used to it, he's used to it, he's got himself poetry, he's got himself a eulogy... and now, he's got all these, you know, self-involved union guys. In January and February, there's a choice for the forest engineers' room. In addition to my district of Adana Regional Directorate, Mersin, Maraş, Urban regional directors are coming together, and how do we get the forest engineers' room on behalf of the Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0052par0323	No oppression and oppression!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0049par0324	I'm telling you clearly that forest engineers display honorable postures, and they do not submit to any oppression or compulsion. And we'll see in February, despite all the pressure, you won't get it. Two inspectors sent me. In the Forest Engineers' Room, at the moment, two inspectors will review until February 7th. Why? Because there are branch elections, can I put the pressure on?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0052par0325	No to the kingdom!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0049par0326	And I'm also saying something about my locality: look, I'm telling you now that I'm getting a call from this Congress about the pedestrians -- the law's out, the regulations are out; it hasn't been implemented for two years, Mr. Secretary. Stop this advertising, stop hosting the Prime Minister, stop opening the places we opened with the chiefs, and stop gathering people here, and follow this regulation as soon as possible. In Adana, in Osmaniye, in Tekir, in the highlands, the people pressure the workers there; they say: Winter is over, and they will have their houses repaired. The law is out, the regulations are out, so do as you must and do it quickly. I'll tell you that at least. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0053par0330	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the final speaker is Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0333	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the State Water Affairs General Directorate, the Water Institute and the General Directorate of Meteorology. Of course, we're discussing a budget with no Court reports. And I salute you all, leaving that to the conscience of our nation and yours. Now, a few days ago, on all the streets of Ankara, on all the highways, on all the televisions, sir, 113 giant artifacts. One's a jungle cabin. It's a big piece, isn't it? One of them is iron protections set up in Adana, so that children don't enter or fall around the water canal. One of them, a house, that's built. Have fear of God.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0055par0335	Tell me about the toilets!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0336	Now, you can't be so...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0056par0337	You can't take it!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0055par0338	Lighting plant!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0339	Look, we respect anyone who puts stone on stone in this country, who does everything he can to serve this country, and we say, "God bless you, we never disobey the service, but be humble when we do it." The Muslim would be modest, the Muslim wouldn't be so spoiled, he wouldn't make himself hate, he wouldn't make himself say those words, he wouldn't do business with advertising, he wouldn't do it in a fancy way, so you tell him what you're doing with so much publicity that you're starting to provoke the other person, come out here, tell us this.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0057par0340	People appreciate it, and it doesn't matter if you don't.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0341	So, now, the total of 113 works is $3.5 billion; $3.5 billion. Look, the Keban Dam, which ended in 1975, cost $7 billion. You couldn't even imagine Keban! You couldn't even imagine Keban, Ataturk Dam! You couldn't imagine their hydroelectric production, their agricultural watering. You're still criticizing past tenses, admitting nothing's been done about past periods.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0058par0343	They're drying the creeks.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0344	He is still watering Çukurova with the dams made by Mr. Süleyman Demirel, which Mr. Prime Minister has persistently criticised, and Aslantaş Dam is still watering Çukurova. There's a tiny pond above our Kozan County that you've built. No one's ever mentioned it as a dam. It's a tiny pond, a watering pond, everybody knows it's a pond. Not all of what you're doing is bigger than that pond, but it's like Keban did an Ataturk Dam, thinking about a GAP project, like you've done a project, like you've done a show, like you've done a show, like you've done a commercial...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0059par0345	With the drums...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0346	I mean, not like this, the Muslim's a little modest. If I'm Muslim, I'll be a bit modest. Don't do this! So, now, there's only one artifact to consider here, the dam in Marash. He's the only one here we can call Baraj. You didn't plan it, you didn't do the project, it's been done in the past years, sir, it's been implemented, it's finished, you've opened it, and then we built 36 dams. Yeah, tiny little ponds... I went to Jordan. Jordan has a water problem. He makes vegetables in a place called the Gor Pit, even in the winter, and they make tiny little ponds like this to produce that vegetable, and they collect rainwater from the winter, and it's nothing like what you do. You're out, telling people it's a dam. All right, you're serving, God bless you, you're working hard, God bless you, but be humble, be humble. There's no point in all this sass, all this swagger, all this publicity. There's no point in getting people so turned on. Now, of course, when I say that here, my word is for politicians, not for bureaucrats or anything like that, they do business according to the attitude of politicians. Some bureaucrats are being touchy, we have nothing to do with bureaucrats, our business is with politicians. Now, about this, this is the quarry that opened during your time. Look, I know from my territory that in the past decade, you open a quarry by destroying a lot of trees that had been planted 25 years ago -- trees that had just been planted in its shadow, which had become a picnic. And there you give a quarry license to a place that provides the 1st degree of attractive drinking water in nine villages. You should be afraid of God. Also, let's build a tree, guaranteed by this country, that the breath of this country, the oxygen of this country, goes through the trees and the forest. You say, "Well, then you slaughter the adult forests." Here is the village of Ninetekne, the village of Dutlupınar, the village of Hamdilli, the village of Yassica, the village of Imran, the village of Azizli, all of which are affected by these quarryes. They all have problems with drinking water right now. All their houses shake every day. Again, years ago, all the channels the DSI had made were different jeans, their jeans are falling down, so there are explosions, when the farmer needs the most water, the canals burst, the farmer can't water the farm, you're destroying the farmer, you're putting the farmer in trouble. My dear friends, look, these are our truths, we need to see them. Now, you've passed a law on irrigating troops, everything's sketchy. You haven't been able to solve personnel problems in the irrigation units. You've recruited contract staff working in many institutions in Turkey, but you've left the contracting personnel of the irrigation troops out as second-class citizens. It's a shame, isn't it? Didn't they have the right to be cast? But you didn't. Again, industrial waste is being poured or drains are being poured into the major irrigation canals of the DSI. Thus, all of those drains have seaweed in them, and since there's moss, often the irrigation forces have to fight off the water from the canals and the seaweed medicine, and yet our farmers are victims, they're miserable. During the most delicate period, when the corn was coming out, when the cotton was riding the flower, you looked up, and there was no water, and you watered the field, and you went to the head of the field, and the water was cut off. Yeah, that's not gonna happen! Don't do this, guys! Now, about the drainage channels... every time I spoke to you here, I told you, Mr. Secretary. We'll do it all the time. You said, you've come out here, there's nothing so far.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0060par0357	Eleven years have passed, eleven years!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0358	Look, the fertile, faithful lands of Çukurova have become barren. Have fear of God. It's getting barren because of the wrong irrigation, the wrong fertilizer, but if there was an underground drainage, if the dry water had been pulled out of that drain and poured into the top drain, there wouldn't be any depletion in any of that land, but you don't seem to care when we call it underground drainage, or because you don't know it. If you knew, if you lived it, if you were a farmer like me, if you knew, you'd understand, but because you don't understand, you don't care because you don't know.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0061par0359	They brought money to the well water.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0054par0360	Yeah, well, he's a threat, and he's right in front of us, in many parts of the inner Anatolian region, and he's a threat in the Çukurova region. Let's see when you put it into practice, God knows, we'll see. Now, this Seven-Eyes Dam -- look, Mr. Secretary -- here, we just told you -- is opening in a gaudy, depressed, non-Muslim manner. Every time I've been out here for 11 years, I'm telling you, this Seven-Eyes Dam is going to water 750,000 acres of land. Kozan, Imamoğlu, Sarıçam, Kalekir and Ceyhan are a dam that will water the most important lands and lands of Adana. You've finished the energy-related part. Well, why don't you finish the watering part, Mr. Secretary? And every time your political candidates or candidates for the mayor of the region will come to this water in two years. They will go to the village of Tatekkuyu, they will go to the village of Tatekganlı, they will go to the village of Bitganlı, and they will say: Your water will come to you for two years, and it will be over. It has been eleven years and it has not ended for two years. Do you stop time? I don't understand. Eleven years have passed, and yet the Seven-Eyes Dam is not finished. I mean, 750,000 acres, 77,000 families. But you're dating, you're building a little pond, we're building a dam. After that, you're lying to people in front of people like this. Again, it's about land 2/B... here, some of the forest land -- my dear friend just told me -- is still not under regulations, the end of March. Soon the sale of the treasure fields will begin. I've said it over and over again, and I say, look, if you don't set up commissions from people who know the area in the amount of these treasures and create a reasonable price, the farmer can't buy these fields, interest lobbyes buy these fields, those who live on people's backs. The farmer plows 50 acres of farms, raises the children's money, pays for the education, but if you see the farmer too much, God forbid, there's blood at the end of this. Take that very seriously, Mr. Secretary. The farmer would never let anyone else buy his own farm. I'm making that very clear. Please, in this regard, let's set up a commission for the sale of these lands from people who live in that area, who know the area, who know the agriculture of that area, who know the problems of the farmer in that area. Otherwise, the farmers can't buy any of this land, and so there's a growling there, and God forbid, you're killing people. I wish you all the best, despite everything, this budget.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0062par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0063par0366	Mr. Secretary, is there a 675,000 cubic metres of dam in your city? It's a puddle! I swear to God! Afyonkarahisar, and your city. It's a puddle! They have made Keban and Ataturk to fall upon his feet, the puddle. Page 40. The Minister's own city.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0064par0367	Bird water drinking place.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0062par0368	Erol Dora is the first speaker on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0065par0370	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2014. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Interior's mandate and framework, in a nutshell, is to ensure the safety of citizens of goods and lives. However, when we look at what happened in 2013, law enforcement forces of the Ministry have unfortunately demonstrated attitudes and policies that endanger the safety of the citizen's property and life. International law emphasizes that governments have a negative obligation to the use of legitimate demonstration rights, that peaceful protests and actions that do not involve violence cannot be stopped by governments in any way unless they include attacks, algebra and violence, unless they clearly violate public order. Such demonstrations cannot be directly interfered with by law enforcement forces. 2103 has been a year in which violations and restrictions on freedom of meeting and demonstrations occur at extraordinary levels. The use of pressured water, plastic bullets, and chemical gas in peaceful demonstrations has increased greatly from previous years. Dear lawmakers have made it clear that freedom of thought and expression is closely linked to freedoms of press, organisation, meeting and demonstrations, especially in the process of travel park protests in 2013, and should be evaluated together. One of the most concrete human rights violations of travel park protests is that pepper gas -- a toxic chemical -- has been thrown recklessly on thousands of people. According to Turkish Medical Association reports, this chemical, which should be banned, has a fatal impact on people with heart, asthma and similar diseases. Also, a lot of exposure to gas, especially in pregnant women and children, has caused similar devastating consequences, especially in the middle and long periods, especially in cancer. Dear lawmakers, a recent example of police violence aimed at the use of democratic protest has been that a gas bomb has been thrown and used in a manner similar to the civilian population who wanted to protest the wall of shame that was intended to be built between Nusaybin-Kaylı. According to the Turkish Human Rights Foundation report on November 30, 2013, 217 have been arrested from 6,447 people who were taken into custody due to actions in 2013 - directly or indirectly killed as a result of interference in meetings and demonstrations -- 3,097 people have been injured. In this case, 52 people were sentenced to prison sentences while 28 people were sentenced to criminal or administrative fines, and 53 activities were banned. In addition, 1,280 people were taken into custody in the first ten months of 2013, including an important part of the ACK investigation due to organizational activities, and 445 (45) of them were arrested. In this framework, the 2013 European Union Progress Report on Turkey is clearly behind European standards on law enforcement and implementation of security forces, with the right to meet and demonstrate in Turkey. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs again lost their lives on November 17, 2013, when three Syrian civilians were shot by police forces in Mardin province. Although there are similar civilian crossings in the Hatay region, there is no indication that civilians have been targeted, the killing of four civilians on the border line with Rojava over the past two months has made sense. Finally, last week, on 5 December 2013, civilians named Bemal Tocı who had been seriously injured in the incident were killed by police fire fired on the group who wanted to make a press statement in Hikazi district of Hakkari. It is unacceptable for security forces to intervene in a democratic press release and later march, using antidemocratic methods and firearms. For whatever reason, there's no explanation for the fact that civilians and unarmed citizens are being scanned with firearms. This incident in a period of time called the peace and resolution process must be brought to light immediately by the government and taken to the highest level of caution in order for such events to never happen again. Dear lawmakers, of course, law enforcement members of the Ministry of Interior can work under a specific law. Thus, the emergence of rights violations is not only possible by individual cases, but by the broad range of movement that these laws offer them. The first issue of legal legislation here is the extent of the police's ability to use arms. The main laws that regulate this authority are the Law on Anti-Terrorism, under the Law on Police Duty 2559. The width of the police's gun use increases the possibility of life-right violations, so it is a mandate that must be restricted. However, this practice violates the 9th Article of the Basic Principles, which was adopted by the United Nations in 1990 by the United Nations for the Use of Hard and Weapons. The second important issue of legal legislation is the Law on Meeting and Show Marchs, 2911, and the Law on the Quick Force. The fact that police have not been restricted to force use in the regulation clearly allows police to use high doses of violence during meetings and demonstration walks, which can be often and easily declared against the Law. Dear lawmakers, the police force must control it through independent institutions. Many human rights units are already known within the administration, but when these units are examined, they will be seen not to meet the requirements for full independence, particularly the principles of the United Nations Paris. According to Paris Principles, such mechanisms should be fully independent of both membership and financing and have a pluralistic membership structure. Turkey's Human Rights Institution is not independent because its members are elected by executive bodies. Because the European Commission's 2012 Progress Report on Turkey has also stressed that it is not in line with the UN Paris Principles in terms of the independence of this institution. Dear lawmakers, I don't want to pass through without mentioning something about the Local Register Office, a department of the Interior Ministry. As many of us have been able to follow from the press, it has been revealed that in the population records system, as the Ministry of Internal Affairs has confirmed, a number of secret codes were given to our minority citizens in recent months, after an Armenian citizen wanted to register his child at Armenian school. In its written statement, the Ministry of Interior issued the request of the Ministry of Education to implement the 40, 41st Articles of the Lausanne Agreement in particular, that the national and racial status of our minority citizens should be handed over to the Ministry of National Education. Dear MPs, first of all, non-Muslims are granted minority status in the Lausanne Agreement, while the names of these minorities are not mentioned separately. Thus, a coding in the form of ▪1, 2, 3, is in violation of Lausanne. In addition, it is not reassuring to know that this information is only used by the Ministry of National Education in the population records. Thus, it is a practice that disturbs our citizens with various care. Dear lawmakers, according to their ethnic, religious or political identity towards our citizens at the time, there have been parallel obstructions, abuses, and more severe antidemocratic practices in our country. This has often been applied to non-Muslims, sometimes headscarfs, sometimes Kurds, Alevis, leftists or archipelagos. In order to internalize the culture of democracy, we all have to understand that we believe that not to label our differences, but to view it as an important phenomenon to strengthen our country's wealth and democracy. Creating hierarchical layers of tagging among citizens will feed feelings of hatred and hatred, not peace and democracy. I won't be able to read all my writing because I won't be able to. On this occasion, again, I wish the 2014 budget to be a blessing to all our country, to all our citizens, and to all of you, I salute you with my deepest feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0066par0390	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker is Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0067par0393	Mr. President, Congressmans, good day, good morning. The water has just been changed. Mr. Secretary, you've gotten us so used to it, we're asking you to let the water be gasous.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0068par0395	How do you want it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0067par0396	Sir, I'd rather have gas water. Let's ask the Speaker, too.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0069par0397	Mr. Tan, it will be noted, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0068par0398	I'll get you the water from Mardin.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0067par0399	Dear friends, I'll try to present something in ten minutes, no matter how much can be said about the problems of the Home Office in ten minutes. Of course, this is the most important issue of the past few years, of disproportionate power and police violence. My dear friend Erol Dora has just told me why the state has become so hard, why the government and the Prime Minister are so angry, why it's difficult to understand why it's so difficult to go at anything with such disproportionate force, in fact. It's a power that has received 50 percent of the vote, and in their own way, we have more than 50 percent of the vote in all polls. Why is it so powerful, when it is strong, it gets violent and angry, and I'm really having trouble understanding it. Because the stronger you get, the calmer you get, the more you get, the more technical you get, the more you try to deal with things with them -- in the old way -- with uhuvves and suhulet, with kindness, but unfortunately, there's an unfathomable erection and anger, there's inlerence. And I don't want to get into it for too long. The other thing, dear friends, is that it's still about tagging the first case. I wonder why people are being followed so much. We've reached a point where even when my wife calls on the phone, look, if you're a little angry, if you're going to say anything, please don't go into government records, let's come and talk at home. And he's responding, tragicomics, he says: "If we talk at home, it's going to be a listener, what's the difference?" Let's at least talk here. I mean, there's no way to understand that either. Why are you following the citizen so much, it's really hard to understand. I want to be ironic, I want to be ironic. Well, you've been following people this long, and if there's a government intelligence that's so controlling, if he's so curious, Deputy Undersecretary of National Intelligence was killed in the middle of Baghdad Street, Hiram Abas, who's the killer? Who is the bottom killer of Hrant Dink's murder, and who is the deep structure that killed Uður Mumcu? Now, there's no answer for all of this. He tells the truth in the police station, he's surprised in court. We don't need deep intel on anything we need, but everything from the bedrooms to the shopping mall is being followed, and there's no way to tell. Dear friends, we're talking about political issues all the time, we're talking about police violence, we're talking about the Anti-Terror Law, we're talking about the Law of Demonstration, we're talking about the Law of Demonstration, but we have issues that are a wound in our heart, these are...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0070par0404	Mr. Tan, gas water has been sent as you requested, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0067par0406	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0071par0407	I sent you a soda...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0067par0408	Mr. Secretary, let's not be as fake as the other gasses you threw at us. I hope it's the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0071par0409	Since it's soda, sir, it's a little gasy!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0072par0410	The presidency sent it, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0073par0412	Yes, thank you. Minister, one important thing is this matter of human trafficking.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0074par0414	I wish you'd asked for something else, Mr. Altan.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0075par0415	If you wanted anything else, it'd be like democracy.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0073par0416	We want democracy, and he'll come too. Thank you for reminding me. It's nice to talk like this sometimes. Yes, dear friends, one, the most important issue is the matter of human trafficking. I've talked about this chair and television and press conferences over and over again. Minister, thousands of people drowned on their way to Greece on boats, along the way to the islands. Hundreds of people drowned in truck safes, tankers. If you love God, a poor man from Somalia, who comes from Kenya, comes from Mozambique, pays the last penny by finding a human smuggler in Aksaray. What are your officers doing at Aksaray Police Station? Please explain. Believe me, every time I watch the news of these people, I can't look at TV anymore. I don't see how it's so awful in the middle of Istanbul. If you understand, please explain. How come these oppressed and victimized people come and find these smugglers, and you can't find them? Please explain. And it's not a case, it's not two cases, it's not three. A second heartbreak, missing kids, under-bridge kids. When we were kids, Kemalettin Tuğcu had a storybook called "The Underbridge Boys" and a novel. Dear friends, why is there no radical solution for these people, especially in Istanbul, in the central city of Istanbul, under the bridges, under the bridges, begging, begging, stealing, moving to drugs? And a third heart wound, a drug problem. Today the streets of Diyarbekir are being sold, and the drugs are being sold in Istanbul in Closetdere, and the drugs are being sold publicly. What's this Beyoglu Police Department doing, giving up the governor and the others? And it's been happening for years. Get into your car at any time of the night, get into your car at any time, get into the closet, get any drugs you want, and go up to the division.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0076par0424	They do the same in Erzincan.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0073par0425	The belly of Istanbul, sir, the belly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0076par0426	They do the same in Erzincan, not in Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0073par0427	How is that possible? And then you say, "Eroin comes from here, weed goes here." These are separate issues.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0077par0428	He doesn't get a chance to chase young people who want democracy!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0073par0429	Dear friends, the Metropolitan City Law... okay, major cities have been established, which is a positive step for us, but what is the governor's authority? What's the mayor gonna do? What are the duties of that county co-ordination board, what are their powers, what are their staff, what are their budgets? Believe me, after these elections, there's going to be a lot of chaos. So we're warning you from today: no matter how many gaps there are in this law, no shortages in practice, if there are problems in practice, let these be identified now, and let there be no solution after a year, two years of arguing, fighting, fighting. There is a need for a serious arrangement in which the governors will come with the election. If we can't do this, we're going to have serious problems, and we're going to have to tell you right now, because I'm looking at material matter, joke, practice -- I've done municipal work -- there's serious problems, there's serious problems. One important thing, Mr. Secretary, is the recent allegations. You've been following me; Diyarbakır, Batman, Mardin, Islamist organizations have made a statement. The police are bringing agents among us. You can also go to the websites and look at them right now. The Hezbollah-PKK conflict is being staged. There have been some leaks about the PKK, and there have been talks about Islamic groups. There was a murder in Batman, and the neighborhoods of MUSTAZAF-DER were accused of it, so they either denied it or did not adopt it. I called Mr. Minister, and I said: "A member of the authority of MUSTAZAF-DER was killed in Highova, and a brother of BDP, who was sympathetic to BDP, was killed in Batman. When you do not place the killers of these two people and two of our citizens and two of our brothers before the public, these deep manipulations, infections will spread rapidly, God forbid, again, in the old days, the murders, the conflicts in the 90s. And with these allegations, and with the allegations of the end, and with this week's allegations, this has become even more public, many people have come forward, and said: "The police have offered me this, and they have imposed on me this method of agenting. These are very serious allegations. If a quarter of these allegations are true, dear friends, the sea will be polluted, so leave the pool, the lake, and there will be major social wounds. So, we ask the Minister over and over again, that these real killers, the real provocateurs, must be put before the public. And finally, this, let's file a complaint against the governors. Mr. Secretary, we're asking you and the Prime Minister, the region is sensitive, the governors in line with the sensitivity of the region. So we went through this whole Governor of Adana thing, so it's a celebration of house-to-houses, entertainment of speech, entertainment of houses, style, shaving, clothing, glasses; wherever you look, it's a celebration of homes. The governor of Diyarbakir has gone to İzmir, we have survived, let İzmir think. Let's not say, "Musul is a province," "Nafi is a governor"/ "Vaveyla tul province," and "we are a family!" Greetings.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0078par0434	Deputy, drink your soda water.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0073par0435	I'll get the gas, sir. Let's have a drink together. Let's hope it heals.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0079par0436	Thank you. Third speaker for the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0080par0439	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm going to try to count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0081par0441	Count the ministers, 15.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0080par0442	15. We're talking about a budget, a whole year's budget, the state budget? The number of lawmakers currently in Parliament of the ruling party, 326 MPs, along with the group's representatives, 13th. This is serious! I believe Mr. Prime Minister is very busy explaining his candidacy at the moment, and since he has not been able to look at his Parliamentary work, you've taken too much action. You may also be thinking: " Let the opposition come, and let him say empty words, and let him go. We'll come back and raise our hand at the last minute, we'll take a hand up, hand down, we'll take the budget, it'll be over. You probably think that, not the first, you probably think that. It became so insignificant, the problems of the state, the problems of the country, the problems of the country became so insignificant. Of the three hundred and sixty-five days of Parliament work, ten days are the most important because the government-mutation, everyone thinks about all the issues and evaluates the income here, but I think the country's problems have become insignificant, I think the country's problems have been largely resolved, we have no problems. Therefore, Parliament has nothing more to talk about, whether the Council of Ministers exists or Parliament is no longer needed. That's what we've come to. Now, I'm going to make my assessments on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, but basically we're going to be reviewing the HES ministry budget, and this budget planning of ours, our talks and budget assessment program here is problematic, wrong. Now, when you consider the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Energy side by side, what is its integrity? What parallel will you get when you consider the budgets of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs side by side? Oh, we're governed by forest laws, so we'll bring them together. Unless you say so, but in our opinion...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0082par0445	There's a connection there.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0080par0446	I'll be in touch, Congressman. In the design here, if we side-by-side with the Department of Energy and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, when we make our assessments, we have a chance to find a common connection. When we consider the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Interior side by side, we might be able to establish a connection. But when you evaluate the ministers as a whole, the positions of duty and authority in the Cabinet, it's a complex structure, so we don't have the opportunity to categorize its integrity in this way. So we're going to talk about Hasankeyf, and it's being evaluated by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs because DSI is handling it. There's a nature damage, it's about the Ministry of Culture; it's about history destruction; it's about the Ministry of Culture. There's an environmental damage, it's about the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The police are attacking gas, baton, because the citizen is resisting, and it's about the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We have to put it all together. So, take one and shoot the other, it's no different. Now, there are important topics, especially regarding the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. Dear friends, about 1,500 citizens have been taken from their homeland, from their ecological environment, from their homes, and from nature. Where do these people live? They've got some hot cash in their pockets. Strangely enough, the peasant thinks it's never going to end, he comes to town, but he can buy a slum's bricks with that money, so he's left alone in the slums of the city. In addition to the ongoing HESEs, around 2,000 new HES projects are mentioned, some 1 million more people are added to it, and in all that, neither history nor human nature is considered in any way. Wherever there's a stream, there's a dam for the government to build. For example, one of them is the Deeper Dam. He boasts about the Chorus River, one of the world's fastest-flowing and most beautiful demographic environments. Look, that's the Minister's statement. He tells us in the Plan Budget Commission that if you appreciate it, we'll raise this dam another 2 meters, it'll be the biggest dam in the world. It's the world's highest dam, he says. He thinks that making the world's highest dam is going to be the most energy production in the world. It's fiction; how do we build the highest building, how do we build the highest dam, and then the rest is the rest. How people are affected by nature, none of that matters. We'll say it's a shame, it's a sin, but they don't know what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing. Now, while we're doing all this, I'd like to remind you of a statement from our Minister of the Environment: We're destroying small streams with HES. We're not going to allow any HESFFs to generate less than 10 megawatts of energy. From now on, we'll have to answer for it. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, who said that, should be caught by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, depending on that promise. You're sitting next to each other, and you're saying that this is an environmental massacre, and that's the Minister's app on your side. Well, then, you're gonna hang on to him. If you're hanging on to the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks because of these practices, we'll call you here, here, you've done well, we'll say you've done well. But where? Look, one of the other important things is that: "Short publicization." So, when all of this is done, for example, when the fast train line is laid down, when it's to be passed through the ODTU forest, when there's going to be a natural destruction, it's done by acting out of the concept of quick enlargement. Based on what? Legislative Act 2942. It's also based on Article 27 of this. The 27th article says: "What does the Council of Ministers say in the implementation of National Defense Law No.3634, the need for national defence or haste in implementing the Law on Self-Substance? Who is throwing away the carry-out property in the case of the State of Emergency or in the case of the Special Laws? Who is throwing away the inspector, who is the expert, and who is the owner of the estate? He's a concerned ministry under the authority of the Council of Ministers. It can be confiscated, so it's critical here. ▪ He says these goods can be confiscated. What does he do that based on? Dear friends, now, I would like you to listen carefully to this point: The Law of National Defense No. 3634 is the Law of War. It's a law against war. It's a law made in 1939 in preparation for war before World War II. During the war, ammunition and military condensation, military bases, military hospitals, military roads and bridges are required to ensure that no time is lost by the usual publicization of hand-to-hands. By the law of war, with a law issued in 1939 prior to World War II, the government is now confiscating the property of its own village, its own citizen. Why is it impounding? He's doing this property to get a bunch of rich people to do it so he can go after the pursers. I don't know where we're going to criticize it, where we're going to go, what we're going to say about it. In your own country, there's not a lot of words left to say if you're publicizing with the law of war. Are we on the eve of war? What part of Law 3634 is it that you are basing on that area of the Deeper Dam, which you built on the Copic River and caused nature's destruction? You really should explain that, Mr. Secretary. How do you do that? Doesn't your conscience hurt when you do it? You do it on the basis of this law when you're relocating the peasant in Hasankeyf. You've gone for years, you've waved a wad of coins in front of the peasant, and you said, "Look, if you get out of here, this money will be yours." For the warm money, you've taken out the villagers, you've taken out those people, and now they're all perperious. As I was saying earlier, he could only buy the brick of a slum in a city with the hot money you showed them. Other than that, his life was ruined. Now, we're saying it every time, but as long as you don't give up your apps, we're just going to keep saying it. Dear friends, this government is building a dam in a place where there is no creek. I assure you, in a place without a stream, this government is building dams by collecting rainwaters. Not one, but 11 within 100 kilometers. He's doing 11 within 100 kilometers. What distance am I talking about? I'm talking about the distance between Şırnak and Hakkari. You know, we build dams on Zap Water, where we say there's a river, but there's no river in Roboski, there's three dams. Based on what, why? We'll build a puddle of rainwaters, which, in his mind, will prevent the guerrilla from crossing from South Kurdistan to Northern Kurdistan. Look, do you know why Hasankeyf, the Ilisu Dam, was built? This dam has nothing to do with energy. They did it to sever the link between Gabar and Cudi, and it's a security dam. The Ilisu Dam is a security dam. They do two things. One, they said we would destroy nature, history, culture, they said we could take the Kurds from their roots, they said we could take this place, and we could block the passage between Gabar and Cudi by creating a pond, and they're going to do it stubbornly. And while they're doing that, they've also taken another lie to deceive the public: we're building Hasankeyf. We know everything, but really, we've heard all of the government's skills in one way or another, but we'll build a thousand years of history, a thousand years of experience in two or three years. That's history, that's ecology. It's the historical remains of the place. You want remains? Here, we'll fake it for you. They say so. Now, how can a government have a historical memory that's doing its calculations on this? How can he respect people's historical roots, their origins? That's the truth, we're making it very clear. The Ergene Basin was one of my main agendas, but a deputy, because his mouth is on top of the details of the Ergene Basin, I won't go into any further details, but the ODTÜ forest is an important precision. The natural slaughter in the ODTU forest is not forgotten, it is not forgotten. This is an example of the size of the government's enjoyment in this country. So is the trip to Hakeza. After the travel actions and those practices on the Trip, the government owes Turkey an apology, and it must come and apologize, because the government, in fact, has decided to end up being the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, which a city opposes as a whole, has committed a misdemeanor to the city, and it's been compromised, and the government must apologize for that, too. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a lot more to say, but I think that's enough. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0083par0462	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group, the final speaker is Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0084par0465	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Forest General Directorate, which is part of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute the General Assembly. As democracy and human rights culture were not developed in Turkey, culture and nature were not developed enough. Turkey's wealth, which has a long-standing historical culture and a great potential for nature, was destroyed by governments due to conscious or unconscious policies, which were destroyed. This loot happened most of all during this period of government, and it's still happening. Historical and natural beings are from our heritage, which will not be owned by anyone but will be passed on to the next generation in the most precise manner. Destroying and polluting these relics we leave to the generations after us is one of the greatest crimes of humanity. The European countries set large budgets for their project to protect history, culture and nature's assets. In this sense, they're making serious campaigns, trainings to raise awareness of the public. However, in Turkey, that consciousness and sensitivity are scarce. Let us not forget that the protection of these creatures and historical sites, which are the common heritage of all mankind, and the transfer of them to future generations, are primarily the common responsibility of states and all mankind. Dear lawmakers, proof that Turkey does not care about the environment, historical structures and nature is the destruction of thousands of hectares of forests. Millions of trees, thousands of hectares, presidential palaces, new roads, bridges, hotels, are being slaughtered for nature. In a period when environmental problems are dealing with every dimension, it is unacceptable to burn thousands of hectares of forest every year, devote it to various laws and tourist areas, and destroy it with crazy projects. Honorable lawmakers, from the year 2002 when the AKP came to power, the law, which devoids chestnuts and redwood forest trees, has been passed by the law, the mineral law, the law of renewable energy, the law of promotion of tourism, the law of 2/b, the law of cadastro law and so forth, as well as laws and regulations such as the regulations of the Agreement, the regulations of the Agreement of Agreement, the 2/b, to attract the forest to capital. Lawless practices against science, law, and humanity are clearly closed down in judicial ways. In many projects, management courts have decided to stop the execution, but the destruction and destruction have continued, and the law has fallen underfoot. For example, the Prime Minister's residence at the Ataturk Forest Farm. Dear lawmakers, the capital has been given a cheap land opportunity through the allocation of forests to any mining business, tourism investments, HESEs, energy investments, landfills and so on. From the day he came to power, the AKP government, which cemented Turkey and saw only the way out of the economic crisis in the construction sector, offers the forests that are head of natural beings in the interest of these sectors. The extent of the forest's allocation to investments for capital has not been seen to extend as much as possible, and the law 2/B has fabricated the legal cover. Due to the lack of proper measures and intentional forest fires and forest destruction, over 473,000 hectares of forest quality have been opened as part of 2/B, instead of reforestation. And while doing that, the forest villagers were victimized, and the big investors were given cheap prices, and the land was sequestered. On the one hand, thousands of hectares of forests have been looted on the grounds that they have lost their forest quality, while on the other hand, the land of the Suryani is being swept away because it has lost its farmland and because it is woodland. And do you know why the land lost its farmland? Because in this geography, the Suryans had a dense population. From the 1915s to the 90s, the Suryans were subjected to oppression and massacres and had to leave their land. Since the land of the Escaping Suryans had not been processed for years, it was neglected, so it became a forest. That's how the monasteries became forested land. The only reason the AKP has is because it is a forest, and it does not carry the quality of agricultural land. The announced package returned 276 acres of monastery land, but was presented as a blessing. However, what was done was restored a right that had been given away. This time, cadastro studies and the Süryani's personal land are being transferred to the treasury for the same reasons that it has lost its quality of farmland. So you give it with a spoon and you scoop it with a ladle, and we're having a lot of trouble figuring it out. Dear lawmakers, we know that Turkey has the capacity to own 80 per cent of the forest area. Sadly, only 27 percent of the country's land is now covered with forests. For a country's forests to be sufficient, 30 percent of that country must be covered with forest. But given that about 80 percent of the existing forests are inefficient forests, this is not a positive picture at all. 94 percent of our forests are natural. Today, only 20 percent of our forest areas have been completed and registered on the deed. Although the Constitution and the laws contain provisions on the protection and narrowing of forest areas, these principles and sentences that began with the "but" were constantly corroded and ignored. Although the law required to plant burning forest areas has burned down 250,000 hectares from 1985 to today, only about 50,000 hectares of these areas, in other words, 20 percent of them have been treeed back. Despite this clear ruling in the Constitution, during military operations, during the last 30 years, forests have been burned in Hakkari, Dersim, Şırnak, Bingöl, Bitlis, or Kurdistan geography. In Hakkari alone, 60 percent of the forested areas were burned for this reason. In the summer of 2012, this action was blocked by security forces in Cudi, even during trying to be extinguished by the locals by the fires fired by fighter planes in Şemdinli. It's not enough that the forest is burned, but let's not forget that we're dealing with understanding and mentality that opposes extinguishing. See, the unofficial response to the question motion we submitted in 2011 said that between 1991 and 2011, there were 810 forest fires and 12.926 hectares of forest area were damaged. In addition, 43 per cent of forest fires are caused by neglect and carelessness, while 31 per cent are due to unknown, unknown causes, the answer is said. Don't worry, we know very well how these forests were burned by who, just as we know the killers of 17,000 unsolved murders, the perpetrators of these fires are not hidden. In order to narrow down the PKK's living spaces, the nature massacre must be noted: There are no untested methods left in the more than 30 years of war. With these inconclusive methods, the country's greatest riches were destroyed, not only its natural resources, but also its financial resources were destroyed. Dear MPs, after the 1980s in particular, have all kinds of public assets and services been privatized for capitalist capital? It's gone. In this area, especially in forest and mera areas, the areas under the state's control include areas, coasts, lakes, streams, natural beings and forests that are quickly widely passed on to domestic and foreign capital in various ways, selling, or renting. In this sense, especially historical and cultural heritage have faced the flood of thousands of years of historical sites that have been sacrificed to these policies. The forest area should be cut off from the forest by losing its quality in science and science, but on the contrary, continued attempts were made to invade private property for different purposes and sectors, to provide income for locals or foreigners. In 1992, the Ataturk Forest Farm was declared a natural historical site, you know, and later registered as a first-degree site. In 2013, however, it was converted into a third-degree area, and the Prime Minister's building is now being built. About 10,000 trees have been cut down and a palace is built there. Again, the headquarters of the forest's headquarters was also destroyed for the palace. Executive units and employees have been distributed to rental buildings in various districts of Ankara. You cut down hundreds of trees in the forest of Middle East Technical University overnight. You fired up the students who were protesting this situation. We'll even wash the mosque if necessary for the road. He said, "Mr. Prime Minister, as remembered." Even this sentence reveals how sincere you are about faith and justice. You want to destroy Istanbul's forests with Kanal Istanbul, the third airport, the third bridge and many other projects. Again, northern forests are an ecosystem that breathes throughout Istanbul. It's not possible to move trees in the northern forests, it's obviously a natural slaughter. We cut down millions of trees in the northern forests, and we plant billions of trees on it. Even though it is said, it is not possible. Even a single seedling needs twenty-thirty years to develop its own ecosystem. With the massacre of the northern forests, the opening of new habitats will finish Istanbul once and for all. While the government may justify the traffic problem, scientific studies show that the third bridge will contribute very little to Istanbul traffic, although a 5 per cent contribution by 3 per cent will not relax traffic, the government insists. A financial investment this big for such a small impact on traffic, the destruction of the environment can't be explained by anything. Dear lawmakers, another important incident of destruction and looting in Turkey is taking place on the waters of the country. It has become forgotten or completely denied that the water of the country, which has been made money by the government, which is intended to be made into a profitable meta, is a vital entity and belongs to the public. Rivers that give life to nature and human beings have been sold for forty-nine years in private sectors under an underground water-water rights contract. It is now clear that global fast and capital groups are becoming increasingly aggressive, that water and nature are commercialized with different influences, and they are being tried to be destroyed by mutual projects and studies. For this purpose, you are watering down the thousands of years of cultural heritage, Hasankeyf. Again, you destroy the wonder of nature, Munzur Valley, Storm Valley, and many other places. The plague of this is heavy, and it's good to remind you one more time. There are nearly 2,000 river-type HES projects planned by public and private sectors across Turkey. The HES, with such extensive and scorching effects, are unfortunately able to meet only 5 percent of the electricity demand in 2023, when the projects are envisioned to be completed. This is a very high price, given the damage done to the environment. The same HESEs and water use are given to multinational companies, and not hundreds of people, but only a few of them are working, and such companies provide an unimaginable rate. In other words, they don't contribute to employment policy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, HES projects are also being used as a strategic weapon in the name of creating an energy source beyond the Firat, as part of the Kurdish policy of dehumanizing the government's government. The HES projects, founded on streams such as Dicle, Zap, Munzur, which are vital in agriculture and animalism in Kurdish geography, cleanse human geography. The HES project, which was thought to be built on Zap Water and is still under construction, is a project to separate Iraq's Fedre Kurdistan (Turkish border) from the border of Turkey to the entrance of Kazan Valley. With the route here flooded, some villages of Çukurca will be cut off from northern Iraq. On this occasion, the evacuation of some villages in Zap Valley is clearly targeted. Just as in Munzur Valley, the government aims to empty villages that it has burned, destroyed, at gunpoint, by changing strategy, using rivers in common use of humans. After years of assimilation policies, the Kurds were taken from them by weapons, tanks, bombs, their language, their culture, their identity, and their land. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, the same resistance against previous governments will show the Kurds against the anti-humanization policies that are intended to be implemented by HES projects. No one can doubt that. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0085par0493	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the first speaker is Mehmet Ersoy, Sinop MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0086par0496	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2014 budget of our Home Secretary. I salute your high council. Our esteemed deputies, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, from security to population services, local administrations, governorship and subservients' work systems, traffic to NGOs, associations, are one of the most extensive ministries in our country that have been assigned to him and have been organized in every corner of our country. Since our friends will also explain their views on the services of our ministry's members, I'd like to make a few remarks about their services outside of security services and Immigration Administration. Our esteemed lawmakers have been a very, very important part of our country's reforms in the field of public administration with the EC PARTI authorities, in efforts to transition bureaucratic service from the understanding of bureaucratic service to the concept of citizen-oriented service, and at the very moment today, the transformations of our interior ministry in population services, passport and license services and local administrations have been very important. I'm sure our citizens who live their lives in tails, at the gates of land, populations and sub-primes to get some help from a green card or welfare foundation. Again, with legal regulations in the area of local administrations, as we all know, the jurisdictions of municipalities and municipal private administrations have been expanded, their revenues have been increased, the scope of custody has been reduced to minimal, so that European Local Governments' autonomy requirements have been adapted. ONE of the most comprehensive and important rural development projects in our history, the CYODES Project, has contributed greatly to the supply of road and drinking water in the countryside. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important works in the field of population and citizenship services is MERNIS, T.C., which has completely changed the course of all of our official business and transactions, which have passed through the age of bureaucratic construction. The identity number is the address-based registration system and identity-sharing system projects. And thanks to these projects, our Home Secretary gives us the right pride of seeing how easily the transactions we face in every aspect of our lives can be done from every part of our country. Our very successful, really successful ministry in this field will soon be able to promote the chip-card project. It is also the provisions provided by the police that we expect to have civilisation of the license and the reconstruction of the Highway Traffic Law. Dear lawmakers, I'm sure I'm willing to sacrifice and -- underline -- to fulfill the responsibilities of our heroic security forces, and we expect that some of the environments who have brutally attacked, brutally offended, the most viciously abused, as if they were thinking too much about our police, to come to the Parliament as soon as possible, and to make arrangements for the improvement of the rights and working conditions. I salute our bureaucrats, our governors, our trustees, and all the officials who have taken responsibility in the central and rural community of our interior ministry, especially Mr. Secretary, who has successfully carried out all of these efforts in the long-standing tradition of state and service, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0087par0505	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0088par0506	Including the Governor of Adana, Governor of Adana? Including the governor of Adana?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0086par0507	I said individual mistakes were out of bounds, but you didn't listen.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0087par0508	On behalf of AK PARTI, the second speaker is Hüseyin Bürge, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0089par0510	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group in the negotiations of our interior ministry's budget. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. Congressmans, when it comes to the budget of our Ministry of Interior, as a city-based MP, I'd like to talk about municipalities, local governments. In 1984, 2004, 2005, and 2012, Law 6360, adopted by the Grand National Assembly General Assembly of Turkey, was a amendment to major cities in the upcoming elections, which began with Law 1580 in 1930 to strengthen local governments. Since the beginning of our mayoral term in 1994, I would like to say that as a mayor, according to Law 1580 of 1930, I am one of the best -- as a member of parliament, I am one of the most aware of what changes have been made in the area of municipalities. In particular, the 6360 Metropolitan Law, which was adopted last year at the Assembly General Assembly, is an event in which we have witnessed a major step towards strengthening local governments, a live axis, human-based municipalism. Respected lawmakers, while preparing the Metropolitan Law, we have acted on two correct examples, the example of Istanbul and Kopeeli. The property is considered a service area of borders in Istanbul and Kopeeli, allowing municipalities to bring quality services to the most remote settlements. In view of these positive experiences in the new law, we know that the goal is to convert villages into neighborhoods within the capital city limits, and to serve in the most remote corner of municipal services. Another important thing intended by this law is the establishment of zoning integrity. Respected lawmakers, when it comes to what is understood by these regulations, the EC PARTY means successful municipalism, serving the public, becoming a slave to the people. In 1994, our esteemed Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, knew that our enthusiasm for service at the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's office continued with the same freshness today, that we continue to serve our nation and remain the servants of the homeless. But as we try to do these services, no matter what the AK PARTI will do, the city law, when the Interior Commission comes on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the country is gone, the villages are closed. We know that within its campaign, the main opposition party, went to the Constitutional Court to cancel it, and how they came back from there. Now, I'm curious as to how they're going to want to run those major cities that they don't accept. Respected lawmakers, it must not be forgotten that despite the people, municipalism has never been accepted, despite the people. I think it's my duty to bring to attention the president of the main opposition party's statement for our government in the 2014 budget talks. The most appreciated part of this government is that it deceives the people. Cheating is wrong, and cheating is wrong. I would like to emphasize that you have insulted both the people and the saints, while you have insulted the AK PARTY. In politics, success is not made by deception, it is possible by telling, by telling, by telling your services, by convincing. When we are preaching our services to our citizens on the streets, I feel compelled to ask, "Where are you? " We believe in this nation, we're doing politics with this nation, we continue to give them the struggle to be servants, to exist with all of our mayoral friends, and we will. On this occasion, he wishes that our budget, especially our Interior Ministry's budget, should bring blessings to themselves and our nation, from the people of Cenab, and in peace, I salute all my fellow MPs.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0090par0520	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the third speaker is Ahmet Tofik Long, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0091par0523	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Security Directorate and General Command budget as part of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill talks. I salute you all. One of the main tasks of the state is to create an environment that allows individuals to use their rights and freedoms in safety, free of fear and anxiety, guaranteed by the Constitution and laws. As the EC PARTI ruling, the security approach for freedom has been adopted as a fundamental policy and put into practice, given the flexibility of security policy established by security policies. In order to place more of the fair, powerful, kind state phenomenon, let the people live on to solve all kinds of problems. We have never compromised freedom for security and security for freedom with its approach. We continue to work with the belief that security and freedom are not opposites, but opposites, that there are two important values that are essential to each other. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for providing security and security within the borders of our country. This mission is carried out by the police in the city and the gendarmes in the countryside. 78% of the country's population are police, 22 per cent are gendarmes; 7 per cent of Turkey's facial measurements are police and 93 per cent are police. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in today's environment where the concept of security has gained a new dimension every day and the parameters that affect security are constantly changing, the expectations of society's law enforcement forces have increased beyond the influence of the growing age of communication and information, in which terrorist organisations and crime centers have become complex, methodical, and organised. The law enforcement agency, which is bound to the state of law, protects basic rights and freedoms, respects the dignity of man, has the resources of the age, and is able to successfully use advanced technology, will continue its determination and stability until now, as it has been. AS AK PARTI ruling, our priority in fighting crime has been to develop mechanisms to prevent crime. Avoiding crime is far less costly than investigating crime, but I'd like to point out that it's impossible to express the social cost of crimes in terms of monetary values. The Society-supported Police Project, which has been activated in past tenses, aimed at police action before crime occurs, and aims to find appropriate solutions to problems, continues to be effectively used in the fight against crime. In recent days, the Department of Family Violence has been established within the Security Directorate to fight domestic violence that is often on the agenda. Our children and children who go to school are being trained safely by the Safe School-Secure Education Project, which was initiated to make them feel safer in school environments and between home and school. Our Police General Directorate and General Command give a special priority and priority to the fight against drug trafficking. In recent years, our carabinieri and police have achieved great success, especially by hitting criminal networks and the financial resources of terrorist organizations that have been involved in drug trafficking. The Security General Directorate served with 189,896 personnel in 2002, while the number reached 264,100 personnel today. Our government, which has achieved significant success in macroeconomics, raised the Security General Directorate's budget in 2002 to $2 billion 430m,615 thousand liras, while in 2014, 16 billion 557 million and 13 thousand liras. In the 2013 budget, however, the amount of funding for the General Command of the Gendarme was 5 billion 843m 453,000 liras, while 6 billion 156 million 691,000 liras were set in the 2014 budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have the undivided integrity of our country and our nation, the life and security of our citizens, and the police force, who have made great sacrifices to ensure the continued peace of the present peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our country and our nation the best of the 2014 budget.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0092par0534	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fourth speaker is Mehmet Sarı, Gaziantep MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0093par0537	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Coast Guard Command budget for 2014. I salute the High Council. The Coast Guard Command was established in 1982 to protect the rights and interests of the Republic of Turkey, to ensure the implementation of laws, to leave clean environments and sustainable resources for future generations in our seas, which are about half the size of the face measurement of our country. Given our country's geostrategic position, 86 percent of our international trade is made from the seas, and the increasing activity in our seas, especially in recent illegal migrations, is once again understood as important as the need for the Coast Guard Command. In matters involving 13 ministries, Coast Guard Command has been able to carry out its duties at 67 bases, ports and settlements, keeping the safety of lives and goods at the forefront of the 13 ministries. This mission is carried out by various coast guard boats, mobile radar, helicopters and aircraft. I would like to point out in particular that the current power of the Coast Guard Command is equivalent to the fleets of most European Union members. Under the national and international rules of law, the Coast Guard Command operates as a law enforcement force that specializes in trained and superior personnel on our shores and seas, which we call the blue homeland. Dear MPs, I'd like to share some of our Coast Guard Command's 2013 activities: The Coast Guard has arrived at 7,720 missions in its boots, which are supported by 384 sorti helicopters and 54 sorti aircraft efforts, and ultimately 53,115 ships have been controlled. 7753 ships, boats, individuals and businesses involved in illegal activities have been referred to authorities for processing. In 630 search and rescue cases carried out in the Turkish search and rescue area, 7.559 people were saved, 189 patients in need of emergency medical evacuation on ships and islands in our seas have been taken to the nearest medical institutions. 7.820 illegal immigrants, 89 organisers, 1,723 thousand litres of illegal fuel and various customs leaks have been confiscated. 3,318 incidents have been detected and necessary administrative sanctions have been implemented in order to prevent the 245 incidents causing marine pollution and illegal water products hunting. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important projects conducted by our Coast Guard Command is the Coast Watch Radar System Project. When the project is completed, full radar coverage will be provided on the coasts of Turkey, significant progress will be made on issues such as providing electrooptic vision systems to key positions and preventing trafficking and illegal migration. Another project will be the Coast Guard Communications System Project, and by the end of the project in 2015, the opportunity for modern communication and information transfer will be achieved. In addition, three US Coast Guard search rescue ships, 1,700 tons of helicopters, which can perform search and rescue on heavy sea and air conditions in our country's shipyards, are now under way, and one of the ships is now under construction. Dear lawmakers, we maintain our determination and determination in this matter, as it is in every area, as the AK PARTI governments, in order to be the strongest Coast Guard Command in the Mediterranean and the region, who have chosen to serve our beautiful country, our nation. I sincerely congratulate all the officials of our distinguished institution, which successfully implements technological and scientific changes in the world, for its work, and wish our government, our country, and the Turkish nation of 2014 to have the best of its own, and I salute the great Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0094par0552	Thank you. On behalf of the EC PARTI Group, the fifth speaker is Seyit Sertçelik, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0095par0555	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the General Directorate of Immigration of the 2014 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your high council. Turkey is a country on an international level of migration. For years, Turkish noble and Muslim brothers from the Middle East, Caucasus, Balkans and Central Asia have been immigrating to our country for political and economic reasons. In addition, hundreds of thousands of Muslims who fled the wars and conflicts around us had to emigrate to our country to save their lives. Again, in countries around us, many refugees have been known to want to cross from Asia to Europe through Turkey. The growing economy and Turkey's future membership in the European Union will put our country in a more attractive position for immigrants. Applications to ensure full freedom of movement in the world are thought to take a long time. Today, when immigration and asylum movements have become so important in our region, it is of great importance to take the necessary steps to ensure that this area is properly managed, to establish a sound framework for immigration and asylum, to establish a functioning institutional structure, to strengthen the legal infrastructure of the fight against illegal immigration, and in legal immigration as well as to reduce bureaucratic procedures as possible, to dominate a concept of immigration and security. Co-ordinating the policies and strategies related to the immigration area will be organised outside the country, as well as the Finnish Immigration Administration, which is established in line with the Ministry of Interior, which is in line with the central body, which will be needed from Turkey and Turkey, its stay and its deportations and its protection from Turkey, international protection, temporary protection and the protection of victims of human trafficking. We can sum up the specific issues that the law brings to our country's immigration law: effective cooperation and co-ordination between public institutions and institutions will be provided in the area of immigration. The short, medium and long-term migration policies and strategies that our country needs will be determined by broad participation by the Board of Migration Policy. A residence permit for the new period will be granted mainly from abroad. In this way, foreigners will be determined to stay in Turkey, and the necessary documents will be submitted before they enter the country. In this case, the bureaucratic procedures for the import of residents will be reduced as much as possible after foreigners arrive in Turkey. For example, the application and permission of several institutions is terminated, as work permits are granted. A parallel application to the European Union's acquisitor will allow foreign students in Turkey to work. For the first time, the rights of those who are without a country and without state protection will be legally guaranteed. With the International Protection Act and the International Protection Act, our country's immigration and international protection legislation and administrative system have been established in accordance with international standards. Foreign entry into Turkey, their stay in Turkey and their exit from Turkey and the procedures and fundamentals of foreigners demanding international protection from Turkey are organised at the level of law in accordance with international agreements we are on. Thus, another step is being taken in the human rights field during the AK PARTY administration. During an official visit to Romania last week, the president of the Romanian Industrial and Service Commission said Turkey has become an economic empire. Turkey's political and economic power has been adopted by countries around us and all over the world in recent years. Now, I wish you all the best in our budget, saying it's time for you to see this power of Turkey and accept it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0096par0564	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0097par0565	Don't believe it, don't believe it, they're lying, they're deceiving you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0098par0566	Does Iran say it or does China say it? You're an example of Romania. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0099par0567	The whole world agrees.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0100par0568	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the sixth speaker is Fehmi Küçü, Bolu MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0101par0569	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 2014 budget of the Department of Forestry and Water Affairs. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs has invested more than 62.5 billion euros in the last 11 years. In the past 11 years, water investments have broken record in the history of the republic, and our country has been given a 268 Τi dam, a total of 1,763 new facilities. The highest dams, the largest irrigation facilities, the fastest flowing river in Turkey, the first gold necklace of Çoruh. The Muratlı Dam, the Pagan Dam; the third necklace of the People's population; the third necklace of Turkey; the 6th highest Deeper Dam of the world; the Ermenek Dam, 218m high, has opened the country's economy, and the Ermenek Dam, which is a hundred and forty-year-old dream of the Aegean, China's Adnan Medres Dam, and the largest dam of the Aegean. The Drinkwater Action Plan, which we have prepared for our 81 counties, and the need for drinking water in our provinces by 2071, has been planned and has provided drinking water for 41 million people. Alhamdulillah, now the project of the century, we provide water for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In the last 11 years, we've met 20 million acres in water, and the total watering area has reached 60 million deep. Our power in hydroelectric energy increased by 12,500 megawatts in 2002, with an increase of nearly 70 percent to 21.725 megawatts, and our energy production increased by 78 billion kilowatts. Dear lawmakers, in the past 11 years, our forest presence has reached 21.7 million hectares, so 9 million per cent new forest areas have been acquired. Again, there has been an 85% increase in industrial wood production, and our export of non-wood forest products has increased by six times as much as $300 million. In fact, most importantly, the plant production has increased six times from 75 million to 470 million. Again, its biggest move between 2008 and 2012 was successfully completed by the National Arbor Expedition. Again, we have become one of the most successful countries in combating forest fires. Dear lawmakers, in fact, as an example of the ministry's work, my constituency is in Bolu, alhamdulillah, with its water and green, 64 per cent have already met with 21 million,969 thousand saplings and will be reunited with watery agriculture, which has received 55,000 per cent.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0102par0576	Then why did you shut down the business in Fourdivan, Mr. Cube?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0101par0577	Again, I will not speak of river reforms, buildings, or facilities, or floods of protection, or Lakecuk, or Abant, or 7göl, or drinking water projects. If I talk about seven basic dams that have been built in just the last 11 years and started to build: After crossing the Dorukhan Tunnel, the Mengen Bridge Dam is 330 million TL; again, it will bring the Fourdivan and Gerede Plains to water agriculture -- which I thank to Mr. Minister -- again, the Cypriot Alanhimmetlers Pond, again, to Göynük, Newville, Newville, the Degers, the Değlans, the Seğlans, and the Sebans, which will re-solve the water-s, the water-sized deposits of the Abytes, and the Abytes of the Abyzanites.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0102par0578	Tell me who made the pond with Seben Stone. Now, tell the truth, Mr. Fehmi, it's a shame.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0101par0579	Governor, if you'll allow me to finish. You have a lot of work and contribution in Bolu.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0102par0580	But please say it, it's rude.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0101par0581	Dear MPs, the descendants of Hijaz, who had made a water road in Hijaz, who had formed a civilization from China to the Adriatic, were the sons of the ancient nation of our government, with power, with love, with love, with love, with white energy, with water, such as the love of Farhad, with the love of the Smurf, with the land, with the nation, with investment, and with energy, I hope, will continue to crown it in the future. I offer my heartfelt gratitude to our ministry and to our government on behalf of our nation. And I sincerely bless this budget for the unity and unity of this nation, for its virtue, for its virtue, for its prosperity, for its growth of hopes, and for its sake, I salute your delegation and our holy nation once again.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit01spe0103par0584	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0103par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the seventh speaker is Huseyin Fitz, the Chankırı MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0104par0006	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have taken a pledge as a member of the AK PARTI Çankırı MP on the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute the House of People. My fellow lawmakers, I'd like to talk about some of the investments that the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs made to Çanırı. When we look at which ministry has invested most in Çankırı, we can put our Ministry of Forest and Water's investment in the 1st place. Look, we've had water shortages in the Çanrı center for years. From an 84km Jesus line, we poured water from Güldürcek Dam to Çankırı and its districts with the quality of 70 million Turkish liras of spring water. Gene, Cherkesh Akhasan Dam is worth 58 million TL, Hamzalı Dam for the watering of the Plains of Red, and Shabanözı, Aleuk, Sarayköy, Alanpınar, Karacaöz ponds and irrigations of our Ministry of Forests and Waterworks, which is $243 million in old money, 243 trillion. Most of these investments are almost finished, they've been auctioned off, and when they're finished, 207,000 acres will be opened to watery agriculture in Çanrı. Dear friends, all of these investments made in Çankırı, fifteen years ago, could not even be made to the whole of Turkey. Well, why couldn't it be done? Because when the contractors couldn't get their money, they'd cut things short, and things had been waiting for years. So, what's going on now? When the contractors take the job, we say to the contractor: "Pull up the deadline for six months." Why? Because there's money, there's money, and we're moving up the contractor's deadline. Dear friends, other than that, we have the University of Karatekin in Çankı. Personally, I believe there are two important options that will move Çankırı. One: industry. Two: college. At our university, which was opened in our time, we've reached 10,000 students so far. So far, we've spent nearly 150 trillion dollars on our university's campus, faculty buildings, laboratory buildings, rectory buildings, sports areas, access to the university on the freeway, and, God willing, we'll raise these university students with their dorms and infrastructure to 25,000 points. And in the industry, and in this organized industry that I told you about last year, we finished all of our bureaucratic operations today, established our official government, established our trustee delegation, and brought the Japanese rubber giant, who was a locomotive investor inside the investors, who was going to bring in close to 50. With $520 million in investments worth 1 quadrillion, we will employ over 2,000 people in January 2015, a year later in Çankırı. A total of 10,000 people will work with the other factories we'll bring in in Çanrı. Dear friends, for me, politics means only one thing, not to bring Çankırı to a place, not to bring myself to a place.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0105par0013	Bravo! I wish our MPs would do the same!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0104par0014	If he's not going anywhere, why should I do politics? With that understanding, 780,000 square miles of understanding, whose borders are drawn with the blood of martyrs, represent the understanding that counts 76 million brothers in this geography, with which I thank our Prime Minister, our ministers and bureaucrats, who have been serving the development of our country, and I hope that the 2014 budget is a blessing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0106par0018	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the eighth speaker is Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0107par0021	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group in the 2014 budget of the Forest General Directorate. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, one of the world's most important natural resources is forests. Forests have been one of our most damaged natural resources in the last century. Despite the fact that many international processes have been launched in the world, deforestation has yet to be stopped in the world. Our country is not rich from the forest. In our country, 27 percent of the forests are covered with forests, 99 percent of the forests belong to the state. In the name of the government, the Forest General Directorate is also eager to best carry out its mission to protect, operate and develop our forests against any threat. Congressmans, one of the most important threats of our forests is forest fires. 60 percent of our forests are threatened by forest fire, but the effective measures taken by our government and the forest service, the modern fire management systems developed, have become one of the most successful countries in combating forest fires through reinforced equipment. As a result, an hour's intervention in fires has been reduced from 15 to 20 hectares to 4 hectares per fire. The forest service does not refuse to use this equipment power in any disaster when it comes to it. Even now, he has been involved in the snow struggle with many business machines and staff. Today, Turkey has become one of the most successful countries in its region in fighting forest fires and has been able to help neighbouring countries, export information and technology. We owe this success to the AK PARTY governments, the fire-fighting, the selfless forest workers and workers of the forest service, who are equated with the defence of their homeland. I cherish the martyrs for this. Dear lawmakers, we have 7 million citizens living in 20,000 forest villages in our country. 500 thousand of our citizens earn their living in forestry. The forest service is to do all the forestry activities with our forest peasant and give them more work and more food. With the following wage policies, forest peasant inflation is not being crushed, unit prices are being raised on inflation. In this case, the source from forest resources to forest villagers in 2002 was 253 million Turkish liras, which increased five times to 1.4 billion Turkish liras in 2013. Congressmans, our forests are operated using the most advanced forestry techniques in the balance of protection and use. With that confidence, Turkey has opened its forests to international certification agencies, and our forests have become certified forests. This paves the way for forest products in our country to enter EU markets. Dear lawmakers, one of the important tasks of the OGM is to rehabilitate the corrupt forests and increase the presence of our country's forest. Our goal in this regard is to increase our country's forest area to 30 percent in the 100th year of the republic. The five-year campaign launched on this subject resulted in success. Following this campaign, new campaigns have been launched and implemented. Our Prime Minister himself participated in these campaigns and showed his importance to the wooding. Congressmans, the forest service has not only increased the presence of our country's forest, but has also raised our country's international reputation in forestry to the highest levels. This successful work of the forest organization, which I am very proud to be Mensubu, is also appreciated by the international public. In person of our Minister, I thank each and every member of the Forestry General Directorate, with respect to the High Council, wishing that the budget would be good.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0108par0032	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the ninth speaker is Mehmet Erdem, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0109par0035	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of my dear fellow lawmakers, the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I salute you all with love and respect. In our country, the State Department of Water Affairs, which is responsible for the planning, management, development and operation of water resources, is one of our main institutions. The State Waterworks performs huge services in terms of extremism, watery agriculture, hydroelectric energy production and supply of drinking water. During the AK PARTY administrations, the DSI signed epic services. The third necklace of the people was launched in 2012, the Deeper Dam, Turkey's highest, the 6th largest dam in the world. The Ermenek Dam, 218 metres high, was completed in 2009. The Dalaman Akköru Dam, the largest dam in the Aegean region, was launched in 2011. One hundred and forty-one years ago, the project, which was the dream of a local director in the Ottoman era, perhaps the project of the century, the Adnan Menderes Dam in China, which we might call the project of the century, was inaugurated in 2010 with a magnificent ceremony. After two laps on the China Dam in 2005, Mr. Veysel Erogluna, our current Minister of State Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Erogluna, asked on the phone from inside the helicopter when the dam would end. When he received an answer, he instructed the Chinese Dam, which was a hundred and forty-one years old dream. My fellow lawmakers, if that order hadn't been given and had continued to build the China Dam with the same funds -- backwards from 2005 -- in the past decade, there would have been no end to China Dam for another 20 or 20 years. The construction of the 268 dams, such as these, took place during the period of the AK PARTY governments. During the AK PARTY, 20 million per cent of the land was watered by DSI's watering projects. For our 81 counties, the drinking water action plan was laid out, and our cities were scheduled for 2040-2050. In Aydın Province, the Twin Dam, which will meet the need for central and airport drinking water by 2050, was also a project of around 300m euros, along with its lines and warehouses, during the AK PARTI administration period. And we thank the Minister again very much for that. The Karacasu Dandalaz Dam, the largest district of Aydın Province, was finished during the AK PARTI, which met the need for drinking water in Nazilli and its region. This project is worth about 200 million TL. These are dams in 2002, in 2003, when the EC PARTY came to power, the rate of fulfillment was 5.10 per cent. Yeah, it's tendered, it's started, but it's a five, ten percent chance it's going to happen. Thank God they're finished. Between 2003 and 2012, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs in our province has invested a total of 3 billion euros, 673 million euros, and that is the record of the republic's history. Dear friends, the DSI will continue its service in Aydın. The construction of the Gökbel Dam and HES, which will water the plains of China and Koçarlı, and will provide water for the Söke-Kushada region, the Söke Sarıçay Dam, Didim and Akbuk region, continues to study the Didim Fiveparmak Dam, which will meet the need for water, and hopefully these projects will continue. Recently, our precious mayoral candidate explains his projects, the DSI is trying to launch these projects as their own projects, and he says: "The Five-finger Dam is finished, we're going to make the lines. I said: there's a study of the Five-finger Dam. If you do it, you'll make the Jesus lines of a dam that doesn't exist. Yes, I offer you all love and respect, and I wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0110par0047	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the tenth speaker is Faruk Septioğlu, Elaziğ MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0111par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I hereby salute the General Assembly. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the 2014 budget as I begin my speech. The DSI General Directorate is an organisation in our country responsible for the planning, management, development and operation of all water resources. From the day we came to power, we made major investments as a DSI. In the AK PARTI administration process, a total of 1,763 facilities have been established, including the AK PARTI dams and HES, 53 (305), the watering plant, 76 (76) the drinking water and use water supply facility, 987 (987) the flood containment facility, 74 (74) the other facility. These facilities were invested at 56.7 billion euros total by the DSI from 2003 to 2013. In 2014, a total of 684 facilities -- including a 21-alarm dam, 41-Li water thinners, 21 hundred and twenty-one drinking water, 12 waste water treatments, 4 floods of protection, 585 facilities in small water facilities -- are planned to be deployed. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you some of the activities performed by the DSI in Elazığ, my electoral district: 179 billion 465 million 870 Turkish liras were invested in the sum of the unit prices of 2013 for the work that was completed and continued between 2003 and 2013. With the completed facilities, 6,460 per cent of the agricultural plant has been opened to water the land. It is also protected from the damage of the 192 per cent land with 25 floods of overcrowded protection and extremism facilities. Construction of Kuzova pumping and Elazığ Hamzabey drinking water facilities from six ongoing facilities is under way, while construction of the drinking water line and the treatment plant and the Winged dams are under way, tenders are under way. Also, the Keban Dam is still under construction of the project in part 2 of the Keban Dam, the reservoir treening and erosion control. In addition, a total of 12 extremities in the 2013 Investment Programme are intended to provide protection. Again, the construction tender for Elizığ Winged watering and nationalization has been completed and its work continues. Work on the Uluova Watering Rehab Project and the Gulçat dam project is under way and has been sent to the General Manager. In addition, work continues on Sedeftepe, Sernce, Network irrigation projects and Hatunköy dam projects. In the construction phase of the lake and water activities, the project began with Baskil Odabaşı, Baskil Akukını, who was in the tender phase of the Coves with Tatar Lakes; the project of Almakaya Esenlik finished its tender; the works of Baskıl İnlikavaval, Mine Durmustepe, Kovoncı Çakkaş projects are under tender; the works of 12 facilities, including Ulova, Gökça, Karakoçan Bazlama, Karakoçan Upperovacı and Karakoçen Yellowcan projects are under way. With these feelings and thoughts, I congratulate the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and the State Water Affairs General Manager. I would like to thank the Minister for his concern for us. I wish you all the best in our 2014 budget for our country, and on behalf of my group, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0112par0059	On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the final speaker is Mustafa Akış, MP of the Conium.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0113par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've made a commitment to the budgets of the meteorological General Directorate and the Turkish Water Institute institutions, but I don't want to talk about air and water when we talk about the budgets of our institutions. But I want to say something about democracy as important as water, freedoms, freeness of identity, language, religion, and self-expression. Dear lawmakers, Parliament and our government, which is in charge of the November 3rd 2002 elections, have made some very important reforms over the past 11 years, and have taken bold steps towards democratisation. Today, the work under the title of the solution process will hopefully be saved from the biggest of the shackles on Turkey's foot, the problem of terrorism. This problem, which is so far behind, has become a fireball since the mid - 80s. After that, public bureaucracy also began to view the issue with an entirely social axis. Thus, terrorism, which is a symptom, has only been replaced by the problem, which has only been reduced to fighting terrorism. With the fight reduced to security and security, the actual distinction between citizen and terrorist has been ignored. The state of emergency is no longer a temporary measure, and has continued for 24 years to represent a separate legal and administrative order on its own. Thus the matter became another one to reach until the evacuation of the village, and the 90s were squandered in this way. By 2002, with the EC PARTY power, steps have been taken to strengthen the peace of mind, to promote our peace. The AK PARTI's power, on the one hand, has struggled with custody in coup scenarios, under threat of closure, so that the people's will will would not be restored until today, has not hesitated to sign important reforms on rights and freedoms. As Turkey changes, as conditions improve and mature, the more resistance is eliminated, the more power it gains as a way to solve problems, the more reforms it will grow in that respect. In an environment where unresolvedness has become a political style, where politics is produced in search of solutions, not solutions, and in search of solutions, the EC PARTY is firmly moving forward at the point of rights and freedoms. Dear lawmakers, the main requirement for rights and freedom is to be expressed on a political basis, with a democratic culture, with legitimate tools of politics in an environment where violence is excluded from the weapon. However, the picture that we face today is the opposition's attempt to abuse the government's bold steps. Those who are afraid that when the solution happens, the cause of their existence will disappear, they will not hesitate to do any degeneration or deformation to prevent the peace of mind. Still in the shadow of the gun, politicians who still had political preferences with the help of the weapon were obviously a provocation to the oppressed citizen, and they tried to raise even the incident in Highova, which had been re-enacted before every election, by pouring gasoline into the fire, to help with these and so on. Those who inspire blood and tears will not succeed as long as they play politics with them and lose their political ground. Now blood and tears have reached its term. There is no government in this country anymore that authoritizes public space, transforms it into hell for those who don't look like the acceptable citizen it defines. There is no longer a government that puts the best interests of the state above the nation. Our people, especially our Kurdish citizens, are fed up with the political understanding and the pressure of the neighborhood that forces them to fight, debate, unrest. Our citizens are eager to live in peace, waiting for service. Let man live, that the state, despite the provocations, the bloody provocations, and the threats of terror against it, despite the national will, the ark, any attack against democracy, despite any provocation, has not stepped back from the will of the EC PARTI to change. The silent revolution, where fundamental rights and freedoms are expanded, where the country is democratized, where great services are served for the nation, continues with courage and determination. I wish you all the best in the 2014 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0114par0071	Thank you. Now, Mehmet Akyürek, MP of Şanlıurfa, who wants to speak in favor of the department.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0115par0074	Mr. President, in the seventh round of the 2014 Financial Year Centre Management Budget Law Bill, which is being discussed today, I have made a pledge on behalf of the central agencies of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and on behalf of all the budgets of relevant institutions. The Ministry of Interior is one of the main ministries in the state and community life. Homeland security provides every building, tool, equipment and other needs we need on time. Our district of Şanlıurfa, my constituency, and Viranşehir district have also benefited from these investments as much as possible. Our district is now in the government's mansion, the police department's service building is in the investment program, and the projects have been completed and are now in the tender phase. It has also been opened to the service of the MOBESE in our district. I'd like to express my gratitude and gratitude to our Home Secretary, Mr. Muammar Guler, and to his esteemed bureaucrats, my fellow citizens of Viranville. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One of our country's leading investment ministers is undoubtedly the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. The forest areas in our Şanlıurfa province are very few, but with our co-ordinated studies with the Ministry of Forest and Waterworks, in 2012 in Viranşehir district, we were able to plant about 35,000 seedlings and distribute about 65,000 seedlings, as we contributed to deforestationing the town's village in the village of Küçükdikme, where we were able to turn the 3,300 acres of treasure into forests to the General Directorate of the Forest. Our goal is to set an example of this work. It's popularized throughout our county.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0116par0078	You've contributed to all of this!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0115par0079	Dear lawmakers, as far as the situation of irrigation projects under the GAP is concerned, the construction of main channels has been completed and has been opened with the participation of our Prime Minister. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mardin-Ceylanpınar Plains Mourning of Attraction has been tendered for part one and part two. The third section is due in December. When these are completed, it will water about 660,000 per cent of the land. Şanlıurfa Viranşehir DSI Branch Directorate service building and social facilities have been tendered and construction is under way. Viranşehir Duali Cırçip Creek has been auctioned for overcrowded protection, and its construction has begun. In addition, the Viranşehir Nutlu pond and the irrigation contract were tendered, the construction began, which will water 3,700 per cent of the area. Şanlıurfa Hilvan, the construction tender for Siverek pump will be held in 2014, watering 1,580,000 per cent. The Viranşehir Pumpage Watering Project is about to be completed and will be tendered in 2014, watering 350,000 per cent of land, which will also eliminate energy dependency in agriculture, which will be a huge contribution to our country's economy. I thank the Prime Minister, our Minister Veysel Eroglu and his valued bureaucrats on behalf of our citizens for their contribution to the implementation of these projects, and God bless them all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, our neighbors, relatives, who live in disorganized environments, migrate. We also removed this 100-year-old thing from Parliament with all our lawmakers, and it has been assigned here, and the work that is needed to build modern housing with land, transportation, education, and health services is rapidly under way. On behalf of our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Faruk Çelik, who personally came to his post and saw the problems in place and started the solution process, and on behalf of the families of the nomadic families, our Minister of Agriculture, who made sacrifices with all of his bureaucrats, which led to the completion of the process. My fellow lawmakers, our government is doing good things. I'll give you an example: we didn't know what TOKI was in Viranşehir district, there were 616 houses being auctioned off.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0117par0086	You don't know why Viranşehir wouldn't know!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0115par0087	We've laid the foundation of 400 businesses in the small industry. Besides, we've paved 300 miles of country roads, and we're still doing it. In our district alone, in Viranşehir, 31 schools continue to build. In short, our ministers, our MPs, our bureaucrats, work day and night under our Prime Minister's leadership. I wish our country the best of the 2014 budget, and I salute your grand delegation. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP and BDP rows (!)
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0118par0090	Thank you, Mr. Whiteheart. Now, the demanding Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0119par0092	Mr. President, would you allow me to speak?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0118par0093	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Home Secretary Muammar Guler... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Twenty-five minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0097	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for the final account of 2012 and the debate of the 2014 budget bill for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its subsidiaries. At the beginning of my words, I salute you, the Honorable President and our esteemed deputies. I would also like to thank, separately, the valued representatives of our political party groups, who are talking about our budget and expressing their opinions and opinions, my dear fellow lawmakers. I'd like to express here that we're going to take advantage of your opinions and opinions. I'd like to brief you on our sense of service in the areas where we're in charge of the ministry, the work we've done in the last year, and the results we've received. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are conducted by our Ministry, our security services, our affiliates, the Security General Directorate, the General Command of the gendarmes and the Coast Guard Command. As the Ministry, we care deeply about the training of our law enforcement staff. About half of our police personnel are trained in the service every year. The gendarmes and Coast Guard Command are also actively conducting training for their staff. In order for security services to be more efficient and efficient, we are especially concerned about the timely supply of every building, tool, and other needs of our internal security units. Our governments have made significant contributions in the growing of all the vehicles of our police and police force and our Coast Guard Command at the time. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the MOBESE system, which has been widely spread throughout the country, where we benefit greatly from preventing crime and the capture of perpetrators of crimes committed. As of October 2013, the MOBESE installation has been completed in 81 districts and 112 districts, and the construction of installations in 55 counties and tenders in 42 counties continue. The Gendarme General Command, whose short name is JEMUS, has still been active in 40 counties and information systems, and the installations and editing of 10 provinces continue in preparation for tenders in eight counties. In 14 counties, the project was launched by the Coast Guard Command using the infrastructure provided by the JEMUS system, which we call SAHMUS, which is an exclusive to the Coast Guard Command. A significant savings will also be provided through joint infrastructure investments. Our fight against trafficking and organised crime, drugs, financial crime, crime revenues, trafficking in immigrants, human trafficking, illegal immigration and cyber crime continues with great zeal and determination by all our law enforcement agencies. This success is the common success of our government, our Ministry, our administrative superiors, and our law enforcement agencies, who work day and night without fail. On this occasion, I sincerely congratulate all my colleagues who have worked hard for this success. I thank and thank our veterans who have died for this sacred mission with gratitude and mercy. In order to reduce our losses in traffic accidents, Mr. President, we launched the Highway Traffic Safety Strategy and Action Plan, which included between 2011 and 20, with the Prime Minister's General Assembly on 31 July 2012. In the fourth meeting of the Highway Safety High Council in order to reduce the deaths of accidents, the seatbelt and speed control years of 2013 and 2014 were considered the following. Despite increases in the number of vehicles and drivers, in the first ten months of 2013, the number of fatal accidents, compared to the first ten months of 2007, declined by 25.1 per cent and 29.3 per cent. With new legal regulations, our country has ensured international validity of driver's licenses. Processes for the production and implementation of our new type driver's licenses will continue, starting on 1 January 2015. In order to prevent traffic accidents caused by alcohol and drug use, sanctions have been aggravated. For the first time, an application for driving licences has been introduced. The draft law on the amendment of Highway 2918's Traffic Law on Traffic Safety Strategy and Action Plan and decisions made by Highway Safety High Board has come to the stage of presentation to the Prime Minister. My dear friends, with this bill of law, there will be a priority arrangement on foot, and the fines will be increased to the driver who does not give the first pass to the pedestrians on foot or on foot. The sales of untested vehicles will be blocked. Cars will be forced to use winter tires at certain times and circumstances. Mr. President, there is also a change in the Code of Weapons 6136, and our billing is currently being discussed by the Internal Affairs Commission. The deficiencies in the past law, which many of my fellow MPs follow, even in the rules of law, which have no legal basis, will be completed with that effect. As you know, with this bill -- my friends in the Internal Affairs Commission -- they know this very clearly -- the age of accession on jagged weapons is 18, and the age of accession on ricocheted hunting rifles is 21 years, and the age of accession on handguns is 25 years. The punishment of those carrying a gun is also organised, either drunk or on drugs. It is also intended to prevent these acts, known in public as ▪maganda, which have led to some bad events at various meetings. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have also come to the final stage in the work of improving public administration, simplifying the administration, reducing bureaucracy and stationaryism, improving security, private security, passports, weapons and explosives, and improving security services covering traffic registration units in order to boost citizen's satisfaction. As a result of this study, passports organised by law enforcement agencies based on population data will now be organised by the National Directorate for Population and Citizenship Affairs. In this way, some 3,500 police officers serving in passport services will be assigned to police and security services. More than 2.5 million vehicles a year will be removed from the traffic document, and the car examination report provided by vehicle inspection stations will be sufficient instead. If nothing else changes in the second-hand car purchases except property, our citizen will no longer need to go to police units, the vehicle registration document for vehicle registration will be issued to our citizens in the notary of the sale of the registration process. In this way, about 4,100,000 citizens a year will not go to law enforcement units, and there will be an 85% reduction in police operations on this issue. In addition to some exceptional circumstances, if the driver's course is successful after the examination, the institution will no longer be able to travel to get the driver's license, but will be sent to its address by printing a driver's license. With this study, about -- my valued friends, who have been asked to over interpret every level of legislation -- I stress -- there will be no further requests for close to 90. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been fighting domestic and foreign-backed terrorist organizations that have been fighting the undivided integrity of the state and its nation for years. On the other hand, our people, who have been sick of long-standing terrorist activities, have been greatly relieved by the calm environment provided along with the solution process. Once again, I sincerely thank our security units, who have waged this struggle with great sacrifice and determination. An important part of the fight against terrorism is economic and social measures. I'd like to brief you on some of the work conducted by our Ministry. Under the Law on the Resolved Damages From Terror and Terrorism No. 5233, the losses of our citizens who have been harmed by terrorism are covered. By December 9, 2013, a total of 364,092 applications were submitted to the damage assessment commissions, and 331,013 were concluded. So far, our damaged citizens have been paid $3 billion,99,644,000 Turkish liras. There is also a $50m grant for 2014. As part of the Return to the Village and Rehab Project, four projects from the previous years and four current projects, with 74 new projects proposed by the governorates in 2013, and the support of a total of 82 projects have been passed on to our governorships of 25 million. Between 1999 and 2013, a total of 171 million funds were transferred from the Ministry's budget to KDRP-based cities. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as Ministry, we are very interested in all the problems of our fallen families and veterans. Public servants, private, private, temporary village rangers and volunteer village rangers under the Anti-Terror Act 3713, the scope of the right to work in the public, which has been given to our veterans and to our veterans who are unable to work, and to their relatives, you know, Law 6353, has been expanded by extension. As of today, 15,985 owners have been employed in public enterprises in the coordination of our Ministry. In 2013, $1,900,000 was also paid in cash, according to the Law on Nakdi Compensation and Monthly Bondage No. 2330. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been seen as a permanent target by our government to increase the resources of local governments and the financial capacities of local governments have been significantly increased by the laws we passed on this issue. Under the provisions brought by Law 6360, there will be 51 district private administrations in Turkey, 1,394 municipalities and 18,237 villages following the March 30, 2014 elections. The municipality of 1,394 will have a municipality in the city, a municipality in the city of 51, a municipality in the city of 519, a municipality in the capital district, and a municipality in the city of 400, and a municipality in the city of 394. Mr. President, the valuable MPs, the MERNIS, the identity number of the Republic of Turkey, the I.D.S., the Address Recording System and the Local Address Register System, have been successfully carried out in the area of population and citizenship services for our citizens. We also have new projects, including the ongoing e-patternship, Digital Archives, and the Turkish Republic's Identity Card Project. As the ministry, we care deeply about NGOs and support them. In this regard, the Ministry of Interior budget provides financial support for our associations in exchange for the project. The 175 association was supported this year, and in 2014 it is intended to support 250 associations. Border management is of extraordinary importance to our country's border and therefore to its internal security. The work continues to establish a new and professional border branch that will be responsible for protecting our borders. Any security issues and illegal crossings in the borders are of great interest to our internal security, and therefore to our Ministry. Therefore, in addition to the task of investing in border illuminations given to our Ministry by Power Market Law 6446, we aim to establish a modern surveillance system on all our land borders as soon as possible. In order to meet our country's needs, protect its interests, and establish our necessary policy and strategies on immigration and asylum, you know, with the International Protection Act, with the great support of our Parliament, our Ministry has received a separate institution, such as the Department of Immigration Administration General Directorate. For the first time this year, the budget of this General Directorate is being discussed. Members of parliament, you are aware that the long-standing talks between Turkey and the European Union will be signed by the European Union on Monday (December 16th). The General Directorate of the Immigration Administration will be tasked to carry out the provisions of the extradition agreements, which Turkey is a party to, with the third country's citizens and the non-nationals. The General Directorate will also conduct preparations for the Turkey-European Union Reception Agreement, and will begin to carry out the necessary work and procedures as the process of implementing the agreement is completed. Mr. President, you're aware that our Ministry has been assigned the task of building government mansions since 2009. As of this date, the construction of 61 government mansions has been completed. The 2013 investment programme included 70 government mansions, while 25 other government mansions were added. The 17 government mansions will be started by transferring the study project grant. As of the end of the year, we aim to finish the 22 government mansions. Again, we have completed the provision of the government's need for rental, disposable and vehicles in 27 new districts established by Law 6360. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've tried to sum up the work our Ministry has done in 2013 and will do in the years to come. A total of 26 billion, 842 million, 749 thousand Turkish liras were earmarked for the Ministry of Interior and its member organisations in the 2014 budget bill. We will make every effort to ensure that this grant, which will be earmarked to our Ministry, will be used in the most appropriate way to the needs of service, if it is granted to the approval of your supreme delegation. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to submit some information on the issues that our members of parliament have expressed regarding our ministry on this tour. As stated, the Security Department budget has not increased by 16 stories, so I'm guessing there's been a miscalculation. The Security Directorate budget increased by 4.27 stories between 2004 and 14 hours, so I'll start right away with this correction.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0121par0128	4.27 floors or 4%?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0129	No, sir. 4,27 floors, which is 3 billion 870, in 2004... you're a man of account, thank you. My dear friends, the issue of Syrian refugees has been expressed here. Thank you, my dear friends, for perhaps giving me an enlightening information here. As you know, starting on 29 April 2011, they were allowed to enter our country under the open-door policy for Syrians who had been forced to flee their country. They are provided with the necessary assistance and services during their stay in our country. This approach, which our country has implemented, is described in international law as temporary protection. According to international law, temporary protection is an exceptional form of protection given to provide emergency international protection in the case of mass currents for the country. There are three basic elements of temporary protection, my dear friends: with open border policy, it can be described as accepting, not sending back to the country and providing the basic and urgent needs of those who come. As of now, my dear friends, the number of Syrian residents in tent cities and container cities is 205,503, and the number of Syrian residents outside the camp is about 400. So more than 600,000 Syrians are currently in temporary asylum status within the borders of our country. Our ministry has set up a central database for recordings and biometric data of Syrians in camps and out-of-camps. There were records in every county, and now, these records are being centralized. The processing of recordings and biometric data of people in and out of the camp is also rapidly being collected and stored in the database. I won't go into details, but I'd like to clarify this matter of citizenship. My dear friends, according to Article 11 of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901, the right of Syrian or other foreigners to apply for Turkish citizenship depends on a five-year residence in Turkey without interruption; I say in general, except exceptions. There is no special arrangement for Syrians to gain Turkish citizenship, only according to Law 5901 can they become citizens. According to the Law on Turkish Citizenship 5901, so far, the number of Syrian foreigners who have earned Turkish citizenship from 1923 to today is 5,730, and most of it stems from the status of citizenship through marriage.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0122par0134	How much is it in the last year, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0135	I'll tell you right away, sir. So from 1923 until now... we've made a statement about the last year, so let my friends tell me immediately. So let me try to make that clear right away from this painting right here, and in 2011, the last number here looks like 27, and the previous year looks like 31. I mean, very few. I repeat, since it has been 5,130 since 1923, the number of people from 40, 50, 60 is not passed.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0123par0137	If you give me 2012 and 2013...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0138	Now, the point is, as we may say, have these Syrians been given an identity card of the Republic of Turkey? No, it wasn't. Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0124par0140	There are fake ones, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0141	Oh, maybe it's a fake, but then there's this...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0124par0142	There are people who walk around with fake cards. It's called.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0143	No, no... we've made an assessment with our friends that those who are in these camps are given an introduction card. I mean, which camp does he live in, which block does he live on, how many people do he have, he's got an introduction card on the food supplies that they're going to get from there and the benefits they're going to give them,
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0125par0144	We have the TC ID cards, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0145	Sir, they're fake, they're never a problem.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0125par0146	If it's fake, I won't take them off, you will.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0147	Well, we'll get it out, of course, but that kind of identity isn't given by us either. That's what I have to offer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0126par0148	They even have addresses.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0149	Let's find it, and we'll do it right away.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0127par0150	Then who's doing it, sir? It's organized, then.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0120par0151	Whether it's organized or not, we'll find it, hopefully, but I'll say this: there is no identity document given to them by the state of the Republic of Turkey because they are not citizens. I'm here to make it clear to you that such an application does not exist.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0128par0152	I mean, the citizen doesn't trust you, he doesn't trust the government with their citizenship, he's a citizen on the street.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0127par0153	So there's doubt.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0128par0154	He thinks they'll all be made citizens and voted in the election, citizen.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0129par0155	In that case, I would like to state from here as the Home Secretary of the Republic of Turkey, that such an identity has not been issued.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0130par0156	You vote, that's the problem.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0129par0157	Now, my dear friends, I'll tell you right now. Now, are the Syrians granted a residence permit and citizenship, and most importantly, will they be allowed to vote in the elections? Now, about that...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0130par0158	Okay, yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0131par0159	Is that what they're saying?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0129par0160	Now, my dear friends, in Article 11 of the Turkish Citizenship Act, there are conditions for application. According to this, for a stranger to gain Turkish citizenship, there is a non-interruption five-year residence requirement with residence permit, which is to become a citizen. According to the Law on the Basic Decisions of Elections 298 and Voter Logs, the establishment and updating of voter logs is the seat of the Supreme Election Board, and Turkish citizens who have reached the age of 18 in accordance with the request of the Supreme Election Board have been elected by the voters.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0130par0161	Minister, as Minister of the Interior, do you guarantee that the citizens of Syria will not vote?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0129par0162	Sir, they can't use it by law anyway. That's not something I have to guarantee. Mr. Aykut, this is...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0132par0163	That's not gonna happen. I mean, is this Patagonia, guys?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0130par0164	There's a serious concern.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0129par0165	Sir, in order to address this concern, I would like to rephrase that, my dear lawmakers, sir, non-citizen MP...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0132par0166	I mean, that's the kind of claim you make to make elections questionable. What kind of a thing is that? Is this a banana republic?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0130par0167	It's not a bet.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0133par0168	It's not a bet.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0134par0169	Look at you two, why we're failing!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0135par0170	Is this a banana republic? Have some respect for your own country, guys, this isn't a banana republic!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0136par0171	We'll see if it's a banana republic or not. It's worse than the banana republic!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0137par0172	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0138par0173	Congressman...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0139par0174	You're already looking for excuses for your failures. You're already looking for an excuse for your election defeat. You've seen the election results.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0138par0175	My dear friends... My dear friends...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0140par0176	Mr. Ünal, the dead are voting.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0141par0177	The dead don't vote, sir. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0142par0178	Mr. Ünal, please...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0140par0179	Yeah, you get the dead to vote. Prove it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0143par0180	Make sure everyone relaxes. Why are you silent?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0142par0181	Mr. Secretary, give me your information.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0182	My dear friends can't vote in elections in the Republic of Turkey, whether they are citizens of the Republic of Turkey or Syrian countries. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the law says. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, Mr. Serindağ, I gave you the number immediately, including 45 citizenship in 2013; 27 in 2012, 31 in 2011; 2010 in 2010; and 3, 2008 in 2009. My dear friends, I ask you not to hesitate in this matter. Now, those outside the camp usually pay for the work and the mortgage and other expenses on their own. However, they are also supported by governorships, NGOs, other charities. For example, the number one health costs of the Syrians in 81 counties are covered by the state. You know, about their work in Turkey...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0145par0186	Is there a Syrian in Rize, Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0187	Sir, there are Syrians everywhere, of course, but they're heavily...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0145par0189	There wasn't only Rize. There was 80 provinces in 81 provinces.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0190	I don't know if he's in Rize, but why did you ask about Rize?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0145par0191	I asked because I was curious.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0192	I'll do some research to satisfy your curiosity, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0145par0193	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0146par0194	How many Syrians are there, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0195	There are over 600,000 Syrians in 200-odd camps, 400 thousand outside.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0147par0196	There are about 1.5 million Syrians, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0148par0197	Yes, Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0199	Mr. President, my time is...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0148par0200	Time's up, if you want, Mr. Secretary's time...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0144par0201	No, thank you, sir. I salute your high council. Thank you very much for your opinion and opinion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you some information about Rize, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0149par0205	Thank you, thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0150par0206	Now it's time for Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The time is thirty minutes, Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0209	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm here to present the budget bill for 2014 for the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. In particular, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs is responsible for protecting, developing, operating, maintaining nature and biodiversity, maintaining, developing water resources, and making meteorological predictions. In relation to the fight against forestry and desertification and national parks, the Forest General Directorate, our General Directorate for Desertization and Anti-Erosion, and the National Department of Nature Protection Parks are conducting these activities. The activities related to water planning are conducted by the Water Management General Directorate, which we have just established. However, all water-related investments, practices, and exercises are carried out by the State Water Affairs General Directorate. Turkey's Water Institute works on water-related issues, such as directing future studies, contributing to the solution of global water issues. Our ministry is one of the largest investment ministers in our country, with 69,165 personnel and 12 billion 107 million, 977,000 TL 2014 budget proposals. I'd like to bring you a brief report on the forest in particular. 27.7 per cent of our country's face measurement is a forest area. In 2002, the area rose from 20.8 million hectares to 21.7 million hectares in 2012. So, over the last ten years, there's been an increase in the field of 9,000 hectares, or 9 million. Of course, in the last ten and a half years, we've had 3 billion saplings met with land. I also want to point out that there is a forest presence all over the world, as the wood wealth is low, while the forests are being destroyed, Turkey is also growing both as well as as as by the field. And I'm really proud of that, and I'm really proud of my agency's work. They're really dedicated. For example, ten years ago, the wealth of wood in Turkey was 1.2 billion cubic metres, and at the end of last year, the number rose to 1.5 billion cubic metres. And that's really the pride of it. Especially when we're mobilizing from time to time. For example, in 2008, we were mobilizing for Forestification and Erosion Control. In five years, we decided to do 2,300,000 hectares of gardening and rehabilitation by the end of 2008-2012, but our friends worked really hard and completed working in 2 million 428,000 hectares over the target. In the last five years alone, 2 billion saplings have met. Let me also say that if we compare these numbers with the past, in short, between 1992 and 2002, an average of 75,000 hectares in ten years, thank God, in 2012, we raised that number to 500,000 hectares. This is our pride. Of course, I'd also like to express...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0152par0217	Is that true? It's not.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0153par0218	Give me the numbers before you mess with the wooding and rehab.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0219	In all the studies, it's all been considered incarnation and rehab, erosion control, all of which are handled together. That's what my numbers mean.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0153par0220	It's 60 thousand hectares of wooded land, 60,000 hectares.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0221	Now, in particular, let me say that the forest service has only been operating in forest areas in the past, but with the final decree of the law, we have made the forest organization operational throughout Turkey. On this occasion, we plant school gardens, mosques, graveyards, village roads, roads, hospitals, health clinics, all over the place. For example, we planted 27,393 schoolyards. 9,826 temples and cemetery trees, 10,577km of road and village road foresting, 1,095 hospitals and health clinics have been treesed. Besides, we're handing out plants to all citizens from time to time, especially because we produce a lot of saplings. For example, in 2012, we distributed about 25 million seedlings to citizens for free. We're also giving free saplings to all municipalities, every city that brings projects, civil society pennies. That's why we've increased the production of saplings. In particular, the speakers specifically mentioned that the nursery had been shut down, but let's look at the result. Look, in the past, 75 million saplings have been produced a year, and we produced 470 million saplings last year, and here's the difference.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0153par0222	600 million, year-on-year production.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0223	Of course, when we're just producing saplings, we care about this, and we care a great deal about the revenue-producing products for the forest villagers. For this purpose, we allow them to use a variety of products, such as walnuts, almonds, to increase the level of prosperity for income. As a matter of fact, in 2012, the walnut plant was planted in 2,500 hectares, and we also devised an action plan, and we will plant 5 million walnuts in 13,000 hectares between 2012 and 16 hectares, and the citizens will receive their product, and we will deliver it to them. In addition, the almond action plan was agreed to plant 8 million almond trees in 19,000 hectares between 2013 and 17 again. Sir, our forest service is working really well. In 2013, the production of 13.1 million cubic metres of industrial wood also produced 6.7 million pounds of wood and 160,000 tons of non-wood forest products, making more than $2 billion in revenues from their sales. In particular, the forest rangers are also very supportive of the forest villagers. Look, for this purpose, as part of production activities, we contributed about $1.4 billion to the forest villagers in 2013. But in 2002, we raised it to $1.4 billion by increasing it to about 5 times as much. Besides, there's O.R.C.S. support besides that. We've given $431 million in federal loans, and with agricultural development co-ops, we've provided 20,400,000 in loans to 136 projects. By the end of 2013, we will provide $5,589 to support the family at $89,400,000. Also, we're doing some work on income-profit products in particular -- burial, sage, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. We've established the Medical and Itri Plant Center. Besides, we're building honey forests. Thus, over the past decade, Turkey has risen to the second ranking in the world's production of honey, which is really the great success of our forest organization. Besides, you know, we're setting up spaces for our citizens to breathe in. We've established 127 urban forests, 1,534 residential areas, and we're trying to be especially useful to our citizens. Also, I'd like to report a brief report on the forest cadastro. Sir, right now, 90 percent of our forests have been forest cadastroized, so 19 million 120,000 hectares of cadastro operations have been completed, but we haven't received all of them. Now, the forest cadastro and Tapu Kadastro work together. We have received the deed to about 16 million and 700,000 hectares of land, and I personally delivered it to our Director General of the Forest. Hopefully, by the end of 2015, the entire forest will be titled, so we won't have any problems with the citizen. In the fight against forest fires, our organization is truly legendary. The most successful agency in Europe is our forest service in the fight against fire. I'm proud of them in that respect. I also pray for God's mercy to those who lost their lives in forest fires. Sir, right now, it's possible to compare this in the brochure, in the brochure we're handing out to you. Indeed, we are the most successful country in Europe in forest fires. Not only in Turkey, we also support many European countries in the fight against forest fires. In addition, we set up a training center in Antalya to fight forest fires.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0154par0227	Three days from Çanakkale to Gallipoli, your helicopters arrive. It wasn't like that last summer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0228	This is where we train forest services, especially in other countries. Other than that, I especially want to stress that we don't only intervene in forest fires, we don't interfere in fire, we fight in fields and garden fires. For example, in 2013, this year, we interfered with 4,797 agricultural and garden fires, so that's a lot more than our forest fires. In 2013, in particular, 19,000 personnel were assigned to forest fires, including 11,000 forest fire workers. 43 aircraft have been activated in putting out these fires. Also, 1.768 land vehicles were used. We have an early warning system, a fire management system. You know, this system has won the e-Turkey award twice. I'd like to stress that in particular. Our efforts to fight desertification and erosion continue. A friend of ours said: "You have shut down the Department of Treework and Anti-Erosion General. " He said, "But we have closed it down for this one reason, especially if only one institution does the work on the land, so if only 10 people carry this glass, it will break on the road. So we've completely submitted these land operations to the Forest General Directorate, but we've established the Director General of Deserting and Anti-Erosion for planning and desertification to combat erosion. Indeed, now that our directorate is in a remarkable work. Right now, we've started three major campaigns, three major campaigns. Look, the first one is the Anti-Erosion Action Plan. The plan will include 14 million per cent of work. When? 2013-2017. After that, a flood control study in the upper basin. My fellow lawmakers, Mr. President, I would like to stress in particular that it is not possible to prevent riots, prevent floods, only by river reform. It is so much easier to prevent extremities by planting and mera reclamation in the upper basin, and especially by doing some work on the terraces. So, with the Upper Basin Flood Control Action Plan, we've launched a major mobilization of all of our Ministry's units, almost all of them; there's going to be a flood and erosion prevention effort in 41 million areas, which is now under way, which is now under way, which is full. Also, we've done a study that will prevent dams and ponds from filling up soon -- around ponds and dams -- the Green Belting Action Plan, which will be completed by the end of 2017. With about 400 dams and this kind of green belt around the pond, we're going to greenen it completely. I'd like to talk very briefly about the activities of the Department of Nature Protection and National Parks, sir: Now we are very happy that there is a greater diversity and wealth in our biological diversity than in our flora and fauna, the continent. In fact, for the first time, we established the National Biological Variety Database of Noah's Ark to collect them into a database, and there are now over 500,000 inputs. Also, I want to say this: I mean, Turkey is getting the impression that it's falling behind in protected areas, that's not true. We've traveled a great deal of distance in biological diversity and protected areas. See, the number of protected areas in the last decade increased from 950 in 2002 to 1.533 in 2013. The area was protected in 2002 at 3.4 million hectares, and in 2013 it increased to 5.6 million hectares, about 1.5.2 times. The number of national parks rose to 40. The number of natural monuments was 102 to 111, and the number of natural parks was 17 to 193, and the Ramsar wetlands were nine -- we are protecting the wetlands now -- and we raised it from 9 to 14.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0155par0236	Why did you shut down Çanakkale, Sinop, Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0237	Don't worry, I'll tell you about Çanakkale.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0155par0238	Why did you shut down Sinop?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0239	In Çanakkale... I'll be with you in a moment, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0155par0241	You've opened district managers in less than 1 percent of the forest! Just because we can't be the kind of man the department wants us to be...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0242	We've established the Çanakkale epic promotional center.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0155par0243	Is there any need to bring politics down so low?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0244	We are currently preparing 49 projects to prepare Çanakkale for the 100th year, which are being done one by one. Also, we're setting up for Sarıkamish at the Credit and Research Centre of the Caucasus Front in Sarıkamis. This one's starting to build, too. Other than that, of course, we're starting construction of our Integrated War, how this republic was founded, how our Integrated War was won for future generations in Afyonkarahisar. We support nature, and these activities continue from the production of cakes to the production of pheasants. I'd like to talk about the water business. Especially in Turkey, water normally comes from 501 billion cubic metres of rain, but given the water that evaporates, leaks underground or goes abroad, our usable water is 112 billion cubic metres.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0156par0249	The farmer can't pay the irrigation fee, Mr. Secretary, so you'd better mention it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0250	My esteemed representatives, so far -- I'm giving you the 2013 figures -- we use 44 billion cubic metres of water a year. 32 billion cubic metres of this - 7 billion cubic metres in irrigation - 16 percent in the need of drinking and using water for cities - 5 billion cubic metres - 11 percent in the need for industrial water. We're considering an entire river basin, especially in the basin protection. Now that we've given up planning as individuals, it's the first time we've planned a basin for Turkey. So far, the planning of 16 basins is complete, and hopefully the planning of nine basins will be completed within the year.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0157par0252	Are you going to change your HES projects according to plan?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0253	Congressman, I listened to you. I'll give you an answer, don't worry, be patient. I'm especially proud of government waterworks employees, they're really epic. Dear Regents, if there's no shortage of water in Turkey today, we owe it to our truly selfless friends, who don't say day and night, to thank them. It's a compliment, so give me a little credit.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0158par0255	We'll compliment him if we see him. We'll compliment him.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0159par0256	It's also a trick to make a wrong turn, Mr. Secretary, then we'll compliment you. It's also a trick to turn back from the wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0257	Dear friends, excuse me, excuse me. Look, I'm a guy who used to be a BFF General Manager. I was head of major science at the university about water, the environment. Then, in 2003, I became Director General of the DSI.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0160par0259	Let's look at the applications, Hajji. It's not about teaching, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0260	When I became DSI General Manager, I asked him, how many facilities do you open in the year? Sir, in three and a half years the government was able to open nine facilities. But now we open 350-400 facilities a year. Our Prime Minister is opening the big ones. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, in this frame, we've presented 1,763 facilities to the service of our people. 268 of these are dams; 53 ponds, but now 334 ponds are ready for the opening; we also finished 305 irrigation facilities. Look, there was no water in many of our cities. In Mersin, in Edirne, in Sinop, sir, there was no water. There was no water in Çanırı, and there was no water in Afyonkarahisar.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0161par0264	How come there was no water in Edirne, Mr. Secretary? Edirne is covered in water.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0265	We've solved the water issue of 76 settlements thirty-forty years later. It's a big success.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0162par0267	Are we going to wash imported apples with those waters, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0268	Don't appreciate it, but strangers appreciate it, that's enough. Besides, we've reformed 987 creeks. Otherwise, if you say, well, what are we doing with them? Look, right now we're collectively... even our Prime Minister can't open them one by one. He opened 110 facilities on 10/12/2010.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0163par0271	So many, you even open huts.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0272	For God's sake, don't tell me we're opening cabins now, we're not opening them. We open them in bulk. As a result, 112 facilities were opened last year. Do you know how many billion dollars? $16 billion. So many facilities, such as Deeper -- 249m high -- were built in the opening of Turkey's highest dam. And this year -- here, we've sent you invitations, and we've been waiting for your arrival, but you couldn't come because there's a budget, but we've distributed pamphlets -- we've opened 113 facilities. The total cost is $3 billion, 250 million. Sir, look, there's 36 dams, 16 drinking water facilities, 12 waste water treatment facilities, 26 irrigation facilities, 22 flood containment facilities... Now, our friends say, "Sir, you even wrote small buildings." There is no such thing. We've accepted 34 investments in the forest as one facility, one facility. In your time, 1 almost went to the cabin to open the toilet.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0164par0276	You're opening the toilet.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0277	Look how many meteorology...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0165par0278	Think big, don't do the toilets.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0164par0279	Shall I show you the bathroom opening?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0280	300 automated meteorological facilities...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0164par0281	Yeah, tell us how that bomb went off in Afyon. It's very important. How did it really happen as an expert witness, how did it happen? In Opium, those fallen families are waiting for you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0282	We'll tell him, we'll tell him, I'll tell him, ask him in an off-the-book conversation, I'll answer him. Now, look, we've accepted 300 facilities in meteorology as one facility. How much? 14 million 571 thousand, we've accepted this as one facility. That's what you say, that's what we are, that's the difference.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0166par0285	Did you make the contract according to the Public Contraction Act, or did you give it to the allies?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0286	Sir, let me brief you on irrigation activities. We're actually writing an epic on the watering. So far, the DSI has worked in 5,750,000 hectares, reaching 68 per cent. Is that enough? It's not. Hopefully, we're accelerating the irrigation, and in 2013 and 2014, we've declared a year of action in irrigation. Hopefully very soon, we'll raise this nearly six million hectares to eight and a half million hectares. For that purpose, look, we're signing up for a really big project.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0167par0287	Can you tell us how you dried up the Istranca streams? You've dried up the Istranca streams.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0288	1,000 pond projects in 1,000 days, and you know we've announced it. Thank God that 334 of them are now finished, some of them are finished with the dam and some of them will be completed by the end of 2014, not 1,000, but 1,071, which we will present to you in the face; that's the difference.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0168par0290	Minister, how many cubic meters of dam, how many cubic meters of pond?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0291	Okay, let's look at hydroelectric energy. You're against the HESEs, but I'll tell you this: Turkey would be without electricity today if it weren't for the HESEs. Because in the past, unfortunately, the HESEs have been neglected. In all of Europe, 100 per cent of the hydroelectric energy potential was used in Finland, and we have 18 per cent of it. So the foreigners laughed at us. After all, we've started a great campaign. By the time I arrived in 2003, we now increased electricity production of 26 billion kilowatts per year to 78 billion kilowatts, three times more, three times more.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0169par0294	Have your predecessors been in bed, Mr. Secretary? Did the AKP ministers before you sleep with them?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0170par0295	How many are less than 10 percent, and how many are less than 10 percent?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0296	Thank God, we've written epics.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0171par0297	You're conflicting with the Minister of Energy, Minister, not at all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0298	Let me brief you on drinking water. Sir, you know you have nothing to say about drinking water, because we've taken all the water out of Turkey. We've taken water to 76 cities. There were governments before. Why couldn't they?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0172par0299	You didn't bring it to Gaziantep. Gaziantep had it before.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0300	Smyrna had no water, look at Izmir. We took the water from the Gördes Dam with a huge Jesus line within two metres of it from more than 100 kilometers. We spent 508 million dollars, look. The government spent $508 million just for Izmir, half a quadrillion.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0173par0301	Soon you'll sell oxygen, sell oxygen, but there's no forest!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0302	Only Izmir? Mersin, Çankırı, Çorum, Kars, sir, Afyonkarahisar...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0173par0303	I'll send you a photo, a picture of the last ten years.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0174par0304	Africa, Africa... He's going to Africa.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0305	We're taking water to Africa, of course, and we're bringing water to Cyprus, so I'd like to sum it up.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0175par0306	There was no water in Aydoğan, Mr. Minister, they just called, there was no water in Ankara's Aydoğan village.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0307	Don't worry, Ankara's water is coming too. Ankara has water by 2035 now, but our goal is 2060, 2070.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0176par0308	You dried up the Istranca streams to bring water to Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0151par0309	That's why we're bringing water with the world's longest drinking water tunnel, a giant tunnel 20 miles [32 km] from Gebede.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0177par0311	Mr. Secretary, you mentioned these Istranca streams, you dried them up, tell me about it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0178par0312	You were going to tell me the bottom of 10 megawatts, 10 megawatts, 10.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0179par0313	There's water in the glass. You buy and drink.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0314	Sir, okay, I didn't get any gas water, so what do I do?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0179par0315	You're drinking purified water.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0316	Now, sir, let me tell you about Ergene. Now, look, our Tekirdağ deputy just told me about the teenager. Now, look, in Ergene, there was barely any industrial decontamination, but there was no municipal waste disposal facility, no waste treatment facility. Therefore, our Prime Minister has given an order.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0181par0317	Look, you're a scientist, speak up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0318	We've prepared a project of -3.2 billion TL-3.2 quadrillion. You know, there's 15 packages in there, 15 packs. After all, we're building 12 of these treatment facilities. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister opened the Long Bridge Advanced Biological Waste Water Purification Facility last Sunday, you know, Turkey's fastest-ending advanced biodegradable water treatment facility. And then...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0181par0319	It smells like a long bridge, so why don't you go ahead and see if you can keep your nose clean?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0182par0320	Mr. Secretary, can you tell us where these 12 facilities are?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0321	Mr. President, I mean, I guess... [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Oh, don't be so jealous!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0183par0324	Congressmans, please... You address the General Assembly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0326	Now, sir, the second...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0184par0327	Don't be afraid of the Prime Minister, tell us the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0328	On 11/12/2013, our Prime Minister opened 40lari and Visa wastewater treatment facilities.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0185par0329	How many?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0330	Three open now, 12 open.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0186par0331	Mr. Secretary, why are you answering? You address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0332	Other than that, let me put it this way: Sir, GAP, KOP operations continue; the project on the Plains of Iconium continues, but the East Anatolia Project continues. And don't worry about Thrace, we've got a big project for Thrace, called the THRAGEP, the Thracian Development Project.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0187par0334	Oh, leave Thrace to us!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0335	With the money of 10 billion TL, look, we will blow like storms in Thrace. We build 123 dams and ponds, water all the land, reform all the streams, complete the need for drinking and using water.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0188par0336	You dried up the streams, dried up the Istranca Creek!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0337	We're going to build 12 advanced biodegradation facilities -- solid waste -- everything the municipalities can't do. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Our meteorology headquarters is really epic, too. So far, we've set up 1,174 automated weather stations. We've set up 62 weather stations about airports and 70 marine weather measuring stations that have never existed. And our international activities continue. However, I'm here -- I'm almost there -- but I'd like to give you a quick answer to the questions.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0189par0341	We'll be fine. We'll give us our rights.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0180par0342	Now, I suppose we're entitled to it here, aren't we, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0189par0343	Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0190par0344	Look across the clock, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0191par0345	You're using 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0192par0346	Minister, there's one over there, look, if you look over there...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0193par0347	Now, Mr. Musa Pine said that the government is embargoing Izmir. Sir, the biggest investments are in Izmir, see, the biggest investments. So far -- there's a list -- our government has invested 11 billion TL in Izmir. In the last ten years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, we have finished all the dams; the men of Beth, and the men of Joltikor, and the men of Yorthan, and the men of Kabadare, and the men of Oliveova, and the men of Ataköy, and the men of 47 brooks, and the waters of drinking water, and 44 ponds and waterings. The freeway, the divided roads, the airports, the ports, the EZBAN, it's all over, thank God.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0194par0350	Did you make them, or did your Ministry do them?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0193par0351	Well, we made them. Sir, other than that, there is a matter of the Court. Sir, I'd like to make a brief statement on the matter of the Court.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0195par0353	There's no report.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0193par0354	You know, there's general budgets, there's private budgets. Now, general budgetary administrations don't have any safe deposit boxes, all of these accounts, all of these checks, all of which are kept by the Treasury Department. Thus, the Court has provided us with all the information, documents, from our Ministry -- the Ministry under general budget administration -- and also from the court of meteorology. But he asked us to do it, he needs to ask the Treasury, we don't have any safe deposit boxes. But you have the DSI and the forest, and they've given you their account, and there's no problem, and I want to stress that in particular. Other than that, forest areas, mining activity... so far, in forest areas, there have been 43,819 hectares of land for mining, which corresponds to a thousandth of our forest existence. These are 1,1,500 hectares of 43,258 hectares. Now, I specifically told you about Ergene... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Melda Onur had a conversation with the HESS. Sir, we're doing a study of the HESECs. In fact, if HES JJs are harming nature, they are not allowed to work with CEDs. But the HESEs we gave them are completely, truly...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0196par0359	Mr. Secretary, but the next speaker is Mr. Buldan. If he lets us, we can add Mr. Buldan's time.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0197par0360	No, Mr. President, I'm not.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0198par0361	Sir, he can't make promises on behalf of the person.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0199par0362	I'd like to thank you very much, if I may. Of course, there were questions on the agenda, and I'll answer them in writing. I wish you well in the budget. I'd like to thank all of our contributors from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0200par0366	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP who has asked for a word against him.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0201par0369	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, if the Minister of the Interior had asked me to do so, I would have given you a few minutes, because he spoke here for about thirty minutes, Mr. Secretary, but in that 30 minutes, he did not make any statement that would satisfy the public, unfortunately. In fact, we would expect him to give at least a minute of this half-hour of conversation to the events of Sustova. On December 6th, an attack was carried out on the people who wanted to march in order to protest grave destruction in the district of Hikkari, Hakkari, and three people lost their lives in the attack. Mr. Interior Minister, any statement regarding the loss of the lives of these three people during a half-hour conversation here, the development of the events there, the investigation and the investigation of the incidents, and any investigation into the Governor of Haqkari, the Governor of Highova Kaymakamı, Hakari and the Chief Constables of Highova -- will be removed from their duties, unfortunately, and they have not made any statement on this matter. Also, Mr. Secretary, any investigation into the events of Ethhem Sarısülük, Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, Ali İsmail Korkmaz, Abdullah Ordaş, Ahmet Atakan, our friends, or the security forces responsible for these events has been launched; will they be removed from their duties; is there any progress in these matters; unfortunately, he has not informed the public and us. The families of our friends who were arrested the other day in the travel events visited the House, they have expectations. There's not even an indictment against these people, and right now, innocent innocent people are in prison, and these people are students. Our friends in college, our children, are under arrest in an innocent prison. And we'd expect the Minister to, in fact, make a statement today. Mr. Secretary, you've told me that Turkey is really a democracy country, everything in Turkey is prosperous and peaceful, people are doing their democratic response with their most natural rights, but unfortunately in Turkey, you haven't mentioned what should happen as of the process we're in today. You have not informed Turkey about the well-being and peace of Turkey, which most concerns your Ministry. There is now a process of non-conflict in Turkey. Yes, we don't want the mothers to cry. We say, "Don't let the mothers cry." The truce shouldn't just be between soldiers and guerrillas in the countryside, but the truce will also be in the minds and minds of security forces in the city centers. We would like to say that it is your Ministry's responsibility to internalize this, to internalize the police and the soldier, and we would like to remind you, Mr. Secretary. So, we're here today to say that we don't find your statement satisfactory and satisfactory, and I'm asking you to explain these matters, and I'm offering you my regards.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0202par0377	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0203par0380	Thank you. Here's my question, to our Home Secretary: Now there is Kozan district of Adana. Generally, there are government mansions in the center of districts, central cities, government. Official apartments are usually in the center of the city. It was written on the door of this court and on the place in the shape of a refuge, saying, "Happy is the Turk." The sentence was written. Again, there are IDs in front of the Agriculture Bank. Is it right for the police to unite the city's staff to bring it down, destroy it in the dark at night? Do you mind if it's in writing? We'd appreciate it if our Minister explained that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0202par0382	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0204par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Eskişehir, one of the most secure provinces of the last years. There have been no social events in the last five years, no mortal fights, except for the fact that Ali Ismail Korkmaz was beaten to death by cops. In the case of Ali İsmail Korkmaz, what was the point of trying to get the case taken from Eskişehir? I want to know what was wrong with Eskişehir's safety in life and property.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0202par0386	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0205par0388	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Home Secretary, when are you going to increase the additional indicators of first-class property managers? When are you going to keep your promises to our cops? When are you going to correct the police's rights? Again, in the closing districts of the courthouse, the sub-laws would file a criminal record, which is how the arrangement was made, but today some counties have mentioned that this service is not being provided. If not, what's the reason? In what counties is this service not available? Mr. Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, is it true that you're handing over the drinking water dams to the municipalities by protocol, taking investment costs from municipalities, but using the Melen drinking water dam, which is invested in $1.5 billion, without protocol, to the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality for free? Is there any other drinking water facility that you have the municipalities use for free without protocol? If so, what political parties do the mayors who use these facilities for free belong to? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0206par0392	Thank you. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0207par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: last week, Çanakkale City photographed Kaz Mountain from the air, and in this photograph we saw the Kaz Mountains -- I don't say other miners -- compared with the destruction of the sixths. When the Kaz Mountains have many different forests, how many trees have been cut down here, while this has 3,500 kinds of endemic plant structures? How many companies are allowed, the gold company? How many drilling wells have been allowed to open? How many species of dying endemic plants are there and what are they? In that sense, I'd like to ask. You say, "We did, we did, and we will," as you just said in your speech, although the dams that began at the time of the SHP-True Road have still not been completed for 11 years, our biggest dams in the world. Like this, you cut ribbons with the Prime Minister even though the Ayvacık Dam is not finished.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0208par0397	Thank you. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0209par0399	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to ask Mr. Güler: what the bureaucracy in Ankara is talking about, what it brings up these days, what we've been hearing, and what they want us to ask you is that as part of this new Metropolitan Law, in connection with the Oslo process, there's a saying about the removal of the governorship and governorship authorities these days. How would you respond to that? Please, I'd appreciate it if you'd give me a good thought and not change your answer in three months. Secondly, Mr. Eroglu... Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0210par0403	Thank you, Mr Varli. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0211par0405	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Home Secretary that the president of the Bursa Metropolitan Mayor Recep Altepe has been issued a key identity card for the head of chiefs. The ID card of the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality has a name, last name, district, neighborhood, period, identity card. My question is: What is the reason why such an identity card has been issued to our most democratically elected mayors by the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality, who, of their own free will, have paid for their own expenses in the election process, and without support from any local government, institution or political party? Isn't this identity card signed by the Mayor of Bursa the political pressure on our chiefs, whose duties and powers are determined by Law 4541?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0210par0407	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0212par0409	I'd like to ask the Minister of Interior: they just called me from the village of Antalya Manavgat Ahmetler. They watched Mrs. Melda's speech and asked the villagers: Was the village's protest against the HESESTs in their village three shots were fired on the village by members of private security, and this investigation was done? If it's done, who's responsible? If you inform him of this, the villagers are waiting for this information. My second statement will be to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: You're referring to 30 facilities you've identified in this brochure... that you've built dams. I didn't get upset, I sat down, picked it up, and in total, these are 782 million 882, 430 cubic metres of water storage. I want to express what this means: I will not even count one-fifty of the Ataturk Dam, one-in-fiveth of the Keban Dam, and one-seventh of the Hirfanite Dam, and the other dams. So did the definition of the dev change, or do you have a different meaning?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0210par0411	Thank you. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0213par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking our Home Secretary, a headline in yesterday's Hurriyet newspaper: The University of Boğaziçi declared the Greek Patriarch of Fener. I respectfully request that you attend the ceremony of the honorary doctorate of the Republic of Turkey, which bears the signature of the Boğaziçi Rector. Do you intend to do anything about this chancellor? In addition, Deputy Governor Ertugrul Egemen, who recently attended the meeting held by İskurm district of Erzurum, did not make him recite the Istiklal Anthem, taking refuge in a bloc. Is that a generalization? What is this anti-Istrial March among your bureaucrats? The same individual scolded those who did not stand up at a closed meeting that he had previously attended. I hope you'll make governor in the first decree because of your accomplishments. Also, I ask Mr. Veysel Eroglu: How many forest engineers will you receive in June?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0214par0417	He's also a water products engineer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0215par0418	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0216par0420	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: Mr. Minister, when I saw this 113 giant artifacts, I resented you. You've put all the provinces in, and you've only written four automated weather observatorys to Erzincan. The least you could do is come to Erzincan and put pictures of 32 trees that you have planted in Vasgirt Tea with a great ceremony. My second question, Mr. Secretary, is that the HESALs were made in Erzincan. There are 42 HES projects in particular now that we've learned, there's more, but... I mean, I'm not looking for any ulterior motives in this business, but why are the villages that vote for the Republican People's Party in particular, especially for these dams, especially for the watering ponds or for the HES. I don't want to look for ulterior motives, but if I say conscious, you see, there's water on the other side, there's water on the other side, and there's water on the other side, but there's a particular demand to be done around here. I mean, I'm not looking for bad intentions on this, but I want answers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0217par0424	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0218par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior: Do you intend to assign the Court's Court decision, inspector and expert reports for 90 million euros, which was destroyed in 2013, sold to subsidiaries at low prices and replaced by a corruption, rant and unlawfulness, which is the site of corruption, rant and lawlessness on the way to Eskişehir? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0219par0429	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0220par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior: Attorney Taylan Tanay has been tortured at the police station. The footage has been released to the press. In the footage, Tanay is being forced to lie down by five police officers, while one cop raises Tanay's hand upside down, while another one takes his sample using ink. Meanwhile, other police are holding Tanay's legs and back. This is evidence of torture, isn't it? My second question: What country was the documented and displayed, threatening human life, from when filling the tank of the TOMA? What effect does this drug have when it joins the waters of TOMA? Do you know that these drugs can have permanent effects on the body? Do you intend to continue using these chemicals that are clearly threatening human health? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0221par0435	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0222par0436	He came to Mr. Seyfettin, why did you finish it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0221par0437	Let the Minister answer, and then I'll give it to you again. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0439	Thank you. We usually do a protocol with all municipalities under Law 1053. However, the protocol for Project Melen has been prepared, but there is now the dam part of Project Melen. The construction of the dam is being completed, after it's completed, which is that we don't give any opportunity to any city without protocol under the law, but there's always protocol. And I'll tell you about the Kaz Mountains, Congressman, of course I was just about to tell you about Çanakkale, but right now we've declared the site -- you know -- a national park in the Kaz Mountains. A strict leave of absence is not allowed in the national park. And there's...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0224par0442	10%, Minister, 10%.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0443	Okay, I'll make that very clear. In other areas, of course, we allow it according to the regulations, but we test it, we rehabilitate it after the mine is taken. Look, I'll tell you this, I forgot: in 2008, we published a generalization, and after the mine was bought, it'll be rehabilitated, it'll be rehabilitated, it'll be treesed; I want to stress this in particular. Besides, we've made some really big investments in Çanakkale, so you know that, the Multial Dam over there, the Stony Dam, it's all over. We finished all the dams, and divided them into Çanakkale, the greatest help.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0224par0444	When did you start watering? So the dam's over. Don't say it, there's no channels.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0445	Now, sir, the matter of the dam said by Mr. Akar. The description of the pond and dam is very clear. We call them up to 100 feet [30 m] high, and we call them 100 feet [30 m] higher than that; this is defined according to this.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0225par0446	You called them all "barage."
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0447	I'm sorry, but if you look at him, we built Turkey's highest dam. Here's Deeper 259 meters, Ermenek Dam...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0225par0448	You're complete.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0226par0449	When did it start?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0450	We just finished on 12/12/2012. We've already finished the Ermenek Dam, the number-one dam of the world, 218 meters high.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0225par0451	You complete it, Mr. Secretary, you complete it. You can't imagine, you complete.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0452	Look, have mercy, the dams we've finished...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0225par0453	Is it Dev, or Minister, or Dev?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0227par0454	When did it start?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0455	When did it start? The beginning of the Deep was not important, even more fundamentally laid out in Deeper, 2003.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0228par0456	At least hand it over, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0457	Take a look at these, please. At the Ermenek Dam, my deputy, the foundation hadn't even begun. Other than that...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0228par0458	You're not giving up the right to Marmaray.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0459	Sir, especially the one our Erzincan deputy was talking about... I'm truly sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0229par0460	I'm sorry, too.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0461	Where there's water, we build dams, study. We have no way of knowing which village is CHP, which village is the other party. (CHP rows) And you know, we're closer to Erzincan... if not in this book, you know, we've laid the foundation of the Craneachia Dam, and we're going to build it very quickly. We also complete Vasgirt Creek. And I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. And there was one thing that just happened, Mr. Seyfettin Bey was talking about, and I want to make it clear here.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0230par0463	You didn't answer my question.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0464	Sir, there's been a fraud of 6.5 million TL by a treasurer. But here's the scam: our friends signed the money that was supposed to be deposited into the bank, which is normal, but he changed the total amount of wages in the color photocopy, so unfortunately Peyderpey transferred some of it into his account. We set this fraud up, okay?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0231par0465	Is there a neglect or not, it took seven years?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0466	Wait a minute, wait a minute. No negligence, no neglect at all. Our friends already caught this, and he's in jail now. So, as a result, we put the corrupter, the impostor, in jail; that's the result.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0231par0467	Where's the money? Where's the money?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0223par0468	His money's taken away, some of it's taken back.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0232par0469	Forget negligence, it'll be embezzlement, if he didn't get the money.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0233par0470	Yes, Minister, let's answer the other questions, please.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0234par0471	Mr. Secretary, you didn't tell me if you were going to buy a forest engineer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0235par0472	We'll get it next June, of course.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0236par0473	Mr. Secretary, I wish you'd answered me.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0237par0474	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0475	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, sir, have also been expressed in the speech of our esteemed lawmakers regarding our police' rights. In particular, I'd like to say that you know that in our administration, we've been implementing a pay system that will not be left behind in inflation, but I'm going to add my personal opinion here, the most stressful, the most difficult... the law enforcement officers who really need to be improved the most in their wages, and the police are at the top of them. In fact, many financial and social rights corrections have been made in the past 11 years. Our Prime Minister has his word, and we have ours.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0239par0476	Beat up a citizen, give him a bonus...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0240par0477	They contribute to democracy, of course, increase their salary!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0478	If you'll excuse me, sir, if you'll excuse me. I know our friends have a special problem with three things. One of them is the additional indicator, one is the overtime issue, and the other is the law that regulates their pension reductions; we're going to solve them.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0241par0480	Yeah, solve it, solve it, don't talk about it. Don't talk, untie!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0481	However, I now express my personal opinion here, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0242par0482	No, sir, he's sitting on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0483	Well, I'm not talking about my personal opinion. There was one thing I said in the commission: that when we bring up a matter concerning the police, we immediately bring in other matters regarding other professional groups, and that's the general arrangement of the matter.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0242par0485	Sir, bring in the motion, we're ready.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0486	I'd like to point out that I'm looking forward to your support for active discrimination regarding our police.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0242par0487	We're ready.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0243par0488	Yeah, we're ready.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0489	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0244par0490	We give, we give...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0491	I hope so. Now, my dear friends, Mr. Varlı, about this Metropolitan Law, you know, after Law 6360, both the governorships' investment monitoring and evaluation centers and the districts of villages, some of their duties have been moved to other areas, some of them have been removed, but the objections here have been rejected by the Constitutional Court as well. However, your opinion on the removal of governorship and subsidiaries... which is not in question, and we have no such opinion as a government, which is not something that can be changed in three months, but I would also like to say that I, in fact, don't understand the three-month issue there. Now, Mr. Erdogan, there's been an improvement during our government's term on the additional indicator of first-class property management chiefs, but we're doing a work as Minister of the Ministry for bringing this to the first-class management of property. I hope...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0245par0494	Then do the police, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0495	I've already told the cops.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0245par0496	We're doing that, too. Say it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0238par0497	I hope so, sir. Our Prime Minister has a say in this, and we as the Ministry have a say in this. On this matter, sir, I repeat, we're not really interested in...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0246par0499	Before or after the election, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0247par0500	Sir, come to our question, yes, Mr. Secretary, it's understood, come to my question.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0248par0501	Answer our questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0502	Now, I'll come to your questions.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0250par0503	Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do with the Deputy Governor of Erzurum?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0504	Erzurum, we're not going to make the Viceroy governor, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0251par0505	What will you do with the Governor of Adana?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0506	Did you just ask if you're going to make governor? We're not going to make governor, but...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0252par0507	Will you appoint the Governor of Adana as Kavas, sir? Is the Prime Minister considering appointing the Governor of Adana as Kabas?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0508	Now it's a verbal question?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0253par0509	Mr. Secretary, come to the iron cage, the iron cage.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0510	I think it's a verbal question, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0254par0511	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0255par0512	What about the perpetrators of our murdered youth, the perpetrators of our youth?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0513	Wait a minute, I'll answer Mr. Serindağ's question, I'll...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0256par0514	He's out of time.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0515	Now, Mr. Serindağ, this is about your question, which has been investigated and pre-examined by our Ministry, as a result of the investigation conducted by its supervisors, the report on the EGO General Directorate officials has been submitted to Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office for processing according to general provisions. In addition, in the preliminary review report conducted by the head of the estate inspectors, the preliminary examination report states... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the decision has been made by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek and Development Agency President Ömer Faruk Ercijas. The administrative judicial procedures are clear on this issue.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0257par0518	There's a new situation, Mr. Secretary, the zoning plan has just changed. He's old; the zoning plan just changed, the sale just happened.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0519	Now, my dear friends, in the Ataturk Memorial in front of the Kozan government, the Turkish nation will be divided forever. The promise was temporarily removed due to renovations and renovations, and it was written again in the book.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0258par0520	I asked you a question about those villagers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0521	I'm getting to that. Now, my dear friends, of course, the authority of private security officers to use force on the subject of Manavgat (Manavgat) is very conditional in the law and regulations related to them.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0259par0523	I have a question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0524	However, as a forensic procedure, our security forces are looking into it. There is also a crime against the police. I'd like to say that the issue there is not in accordance with the law when it comes to a licensed and CED report not necessarily doing the work. If there is a CED report or a license, if it is against the law, there are administrative judicial procedures to correct it, but I am not going to impose it by force, by force, by violence.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0260par0525	There is no such thing, Mr. Secretary, the villagers are seeking their rights.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0249par0526	Here you go, sir, the judicial path is clear. It's necessary...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0260par0527	We're asking what you did with the slug, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0261par0528	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Okay, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0262par0530	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer the other questions in writing. Mr. Demiröz, the city doesn't have that kind of authority, but with what authority did they arrange it, maybe he can give it to the head of the community, or did he give it to the district heads, I'll have them look into it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0263par0532	No, it's given to the village chiefs, Mr. Secretary, let me make this clear.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0264par0533	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0265par0534	Mr. Yilmaz, you had a question, and then our Minister of Water Affairs will answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0266par0536	Thank you. I'll ask the Home Secretary first. Governor of Adana... we've become famous on the Internet, on Twitter, in the press as Adana, so we've submitted thirty and forty questions about it. Have you assigned an inspector to the estate about the Governor of Adana? We're sending, we're claiming the governor, the answer is this: you're stating what the governor ordered. My next question is to the Minister. Of course, we're bringing this up to the Minister...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0267par0540	Yes, thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Go ahead, Mr. Çelebi, ask him, Mr. Secretary will answer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0268par0542	Mr. President, due to the time limit, we're not getting enough answers to these questions. Our request is, through you, we'll give you the written answer. As they say, we really want them to give it as soon as possible. We ask questions and they stay out in the open, especially through you. We're asking the ministers, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0267par0543	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0269par0544	Let's raise the questions by the minute.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0267par0545	Yes, Mr. Ministers, will they answer, sir?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0270par0546	I said I'd answer in writing, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0267par0547	Point taken.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0271par0548	But give it to me, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0270par0549	Yes, we will, and if we don't, you have the right to make promises again here, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0267par0550	The question-answer process is complete. Now, in turn, I'm going to give you a separate reading of the chapters and chapters of the budgets in the seventh round...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0272par0552	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has answered the question poorly. There's some misleading information here, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to correct it. Now, what Mr. Minister says is that the decision of the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office for non-responsibility was a new situation before and after that destruction. Therefore, Mr. President, the matter must be reconsidered.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0273par0556	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0274par0557	Aye, we have a roll call. I'll take care of it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Akar, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Captain, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Star, Mr. Oz, Mr. Süçük, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Özsüsük, Mr. Gök. I'll give you two minutes. [[There's been a check-up with the electronics.]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2012 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2012 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Forest General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Account for 2012 METEOROLOGY GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.498.585,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 118,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 50,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained General TOPLAM 3.550.933,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014 I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 3.541.580.287.00 Budget Expenses 3,493,714,973,88 The grant goes to 38,002,61 Cancelled Fund 47.903.315.73 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2014 will be adopted by the Security General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 10.82) EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT 1) Police General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 347,858,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 15.569.258,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 4,893,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 635,003,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 16,557,013,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Security General Directorate section of the central management budget of 2014 has been adopted I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 13.336.809.790.85 Budget Expenses 13.125.872.116.67 Emancipation Expenses 78,832.956,32 Canceled Grant 274.325.031.65 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 267,569,647,47 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Security General Directorate of 2012 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:81) JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,151,841.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 4,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 6,156,691.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of 2012 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 5,476,292.342.33 Budget Expenses 5,187,974.391,13 Canceled Fund 287,785,569,30 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 285,211,454,03 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. Coast Guard Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2014 be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:83 A.M.S.I.C.O.D. 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 452.488,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 452.488,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. Coast Guard Command, I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 408,936,897,58 Budget Expenses 334.897.734.74 Canceled Fund 73,953,574,84 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 48,388,891,72 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:85) GOVERNMENT OF GOVERNMENT 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 125,634,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 125,634,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has voted to take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 33) ORMAN AND WATER WORKING 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10,473,077,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 964.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,849.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 265,091,400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 204.568.600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 10.945.551.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 9.641,874,350.00 Budget Expenses 9.289.699.291.56 Funds Expenses 656,648,32 Canceled Fund 352.831.706,76 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs was adopted as part of the central management account in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2014 will be adopted by the Director General of the Forest: those who don't accept... those who don't. 40.17) ORMAN GOVERNMENT 1) Forest General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.566,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 294,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 2.028.157,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 2,039,017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Influences 385,030.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 1,358,017,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 294,960.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 10,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2,038,017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Forest General Directorate was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. Director General of the Forest, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total grant 2,069,379,789,86 Budget Expenses 1,818,587,087,44 Canceled allowance 250.606.524.75 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 186,177,67 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 1.861.299.00 Net Collection 1,795,999,858,28 Ret and Returns (-) 2.827.405,50 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Central Management Account of 2012 was adopted as part of the Forest General Directorate's final account. I submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.57) ACTIVITY OF SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 43,688,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 755-500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 27.355,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 8:451,268,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 50,033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 770.241.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 608,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 9.343.949.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 111,250,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 9,063,949.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 155,250,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings $13,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 9.343.949,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The State Water Affairs General Directorate was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate in 2012 will be transferred to the departments of its central management account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate Central Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 8.281.596.563.85 Budget Expenses 8.088.208.694.73 Cancelled Grant 189,365,502,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 79,223,295,60 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 7.980.416,000.00 Net Collection 8.436.130.891.05 Ret and Returns (-) 1.594.687,11 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of State Water Affairs was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Meteorology will be transferred to the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 33.75) METEOROLOGY GENIFER 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 198,300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 226,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 201.276,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2014 was adopted by the General Directorate of Meteorology. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Departments of your final account for 2012, the ones who don't accept... the ones who don't. 2) Meteorology General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 I'm reading the general sum of the ruler A: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 183.830.189.84 Budget Expenses 166.819.069.80 Canceled Fund 17.011.120.04 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14.433,913,24 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Directorate of Meteorology was approved for the final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute will take part in the central budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.58) ENGLISH INSTITUTION 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 34,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 4.557,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.591.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 4,441000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4.591.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2014 were adopted by the Turkish Water Institute. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute will be transferred to the chapters of its final account in 2012: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance is 3,650,000.00 Budget Expenses 633.664.46 Canceled Fund 2.976.335.54 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Net Collection 1,343,326,96 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Water Institute was approved for the final account of central management in 2012. Members of parliament, such as the Ministry of Interior, Security General Directorate, Brigadier General Command, the Coast Guard Command, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Forestry and Water Affairs, the General Directorate of State Water Affairs, the General Directorate of Meteorology, and the Central Management Accounts of the Turkish Water Institute for 2014, the Central Management Account of 2012, the Central Administration budget of 2014 of the Immigration Administration General. I wish them well.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0275par0924	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0274par0925	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0275par0928	Mr. President, as our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs explained his actions, he also stated that the Deeper Dam was done by his government. Of course, the Justice and Development Party governments may have great services in the construction of the Deep Dam, but the foundation of this dam was laid in 1998. The Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Mesut Yilmaz, is the President of the period. The ceremony was also attended by Azerbaijan President Haydar Aliyev and Georgian President Shevardnadze. I'm deeply attributed to Mr. Secretary's own administration alone to build a dam based on a ceremony that reflects such a national union. I give thanks and thanks to the names I consider to be the foundation of this dam, Mr. President Süleyman Demirel, Mr. Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit02spe0276par0932	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Congressmans, this concludes the seventh round of talks. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0276par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Rail Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Account for 2012 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Now, we'll begin the eighth round of talks. The Ministry of Economics, Development Ministry, Turkey's Statistical Institution, the Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the East Anatolian Project Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Council of the Council of Konya, the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, the budget and final accounts. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the eighth round, I read the names of the members of the group and the names of the members who were spoken for on behalf of their individuals. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Genghis Yavilioğlu, Erzurum MP; Hüseyin Donaz, Konya MP; Mehmet Ali Okur, Koyeli MP; İncınur Denizli, İzmir MP; Öçal Kavuncu, Kütahya MP; Yunus Kılıç, Kars MP; Basic Coşkun, Yalova MP; Sıtkı Güvenç, Kahramarash MP; Abdurrahim Akdağ, Mardin MP; John Akman, Şanlıurfa MP; Mustafa Bilici, Van MP; Gülayancı, Kütahçı, MP; Mehmet Girya MP; Mehmet Giryazın, MP. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP; Umit Özgış, Adana MP; Çöse, Çorum MP; Muharrem İl, Erzincan MP; Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP; Doğan Şafah, Nığde MP; Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu, Giresun MP. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP; Emin Çınar, Kastamonu MP; Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP; Adnan Şişek Yıldız, Hatay MP. On behalf of the Party for Peace and Democracy Group, Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP; Bengi Yıldız, Batman MP; İbrahim Binici, Şanlıurfa MP. On behalf of his subjects: Abdulkerim Gök, Şanlıurfa MP; Aykan Erdemir, Bursa MP who has asked for a word against him. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Genghis Yavilioğlu. Your time is five minutes, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0277par0044	Mr. President, I'm going to be speaking to the esteemed MPs about the Ministry of Economics. I salute you all. In the history of the Republic, not every government has the same place in the public's memory. For example, some governments are remembered for their achievements in agriculture, industry, health, health, and some are remembered for their gas, oil, bread tails, some by normalizing custody from the IMF, some by handing out homes and keys, some by the coalition crises, some by failing banks, high interest rates, closing businesses. Despite all challenges, the EC PARTY governments will be remembered for service, success and especially stability and normalisation. Dear friends, Turkey has suffered much from unstable and abnormal times. If in this country, between 1970 and 2002, there have been more than 20 hundred governments in the period of thirty-three years, tens of thousands of political parties have been shut down since 1960, and people's prospects have been compromised, and the solution to every problem in the country has been sought elsewhere outside the parliament, you can't expect to develop from there if the capital has been divided into green, white and whatever colors, because of terrorism, for tens of thousands of people, and according to one study, you can't expect to develop from here. Dear lawmakers, the answer to the question, why has economic development not been achieved in the past, lies here. At this stage in history, what we do is we throw away these biles. We know that real development happens with both capital and technology and democratisation, social and mental progress, and in every field with self-confidence and cultural identity. I mean, development is not the kind of work that would have been done by technicians who had been alien or alienated in the past, or by a community of local elites who had lost touch with ordinary people. For development, the public must have confidence in the government. In 2001, when all economic indicators were turned upside down, the public's confidence in the government was only 22.8 per cent, which increased by more than 60 per cent in 2012. This alone shows why the AK PARTY governments have succeeded. Dear MPs, we, the AK PARTY governments, have made absolute improvements in inflation, interest and budget balance. In the case of unemployment, relative improvements have been made. We're developing solutions to energy and savings from factors that destabilize the cari. All we're trying to do is not get caught in the middle income trap, from a stage like medium income level to a high income level. In 1955, Turkey was at low mid-income income level, while in our time, only in 2005 did it reach a high average income level. I mean, it's been on low mid-income income for about 50 years, Turkey. Our goal is to get out of the high average income level as soon as possible. That's what all our work is for. We know that we are in the most serious and most important stage of development, and we are working on what we need to do. Dear friends, as you know, in the 1970s, our country had more export weight in agricultural products, in 1980s and 1990s, and more in textiles and ready clothing, but today, export shares are importantly increased in products groups of machines, automotive and electronics. Increased resources for RD, incentive systems and technokents show our determination in this area. We'll keep working. We know well that development can only be achieved with the entire community. Its yeast was a climate of stability and trust that our people saw and approved in the period of the AK PARTY governments. That's why he's continuing to support us by increasing his support. I thank our people who support stability and trust. I wish our 2014 budget to the best, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0278par0054	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the second speaker is Huseyin Don't be upset.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0279par0057	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the budget of the Ministry of Economics 2014. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to kindly welcome the Holy Father in the 740th year of his vuslat, which is held every year. Dear MPs, Turkey has broken many records for the economy over the past 11 years, making significant reforms in economic and political areas. As a result, Turkey has achieved significant international achievements. Although the negatives in global economy and trade have continued for the past five or six years, the IMF and OECD have further lowered growth for the world economy in 2013, Turkey's economy has grown by 4.4 per cent over expectations in the third quarter. With this growth rate, the economy of Turkey, which has been growing for 16 quarters without interruption, has achieved 6.2 growths in the process. 2012 has been a bright year for our foreign trade. In 2002, our foreign trade volume, which was 87 billion dollars, reached $389 billion at the end of 2012. Again, in 2012, our exports in the history of the Republic of Turkey set a record and exported 153 billion dollars. In November, our exports also set an important record, increasing 8.8 per cent month-on-month, making the biggest exports per month-on-month. Dear lawmakers, in the incentive system, structural transformation has been carried out, and according to regional development differences, Turkey has been divided into 6 regions and the amount of incentives have been redesigned accordingly. In the coming period, this new incentive system is extremely important in terms of gaining more balanced and sustainable growth rates. The promotion of the strategic investments put into place by the incentive system will be a structural innovation, especially that will enable the production of high import addictions in our country, increase product diversity and added value in our exports, and thus reduce our external trade deficit and provide a permanent solution to our problems. From June 2012, when the new incentive system was implemented, there were 6,486 incentives worth of 102 billion dollars, and 240,000 jobs were envisioned. For foreign investors, who will invest in our country and will bring the most advanced technologies, providing new jobs, bringing additional power to our country's development, the best, most advantageous incentives in our history have been brought to our country by about 130 billion dollars of foreign capital. The amount of international direct investors that came to our country by 2002 was 14 billion dollars, while our power increased by nine times to 124 billion dollars. The Ministry of Economics contributes greatly to our country's economic success with a strong performance. We have full faith that these contributions will continue in the coming period and will lead our country to an export of $500 billion in goods and $150 billion in services in 2023. In order for the economy ministry's activities to be carried out effectively, I wish you all the best of the budget for 2014, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0280par0066	Thank you. Mehmet Ali Okur, third speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0281par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Economics. I salute you all. AT a time when our country's political and economic woes, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our prime minister, led by our country's political and economics, is a party that has made a great progress and change process for our country, despite all the obstacles he's been exposed to, from domestic policy to foreign policy, from education to health, from education to security, from energy to transportation, from economics to social life, democracy to human rights, from democracy to human rights in all areas. Dear MPs, as Turkey, we grew up 2.2% in 2012. The GDP reached $786 billion per person per person for $10,497. One of the main goals in economic growth is to create employment, reduce unemployment. Unemployment has dropped 0.6 points in 2012 to 9.2%. The number of people employed in 2012 increased by 711,000 to 24 million, 821,000. Our performance is going well in 2013. The number of people employed in the last 12 months has increased by 600,000, and our unemployment rate has been 9.3%. Turkey's unemployment rate is better than that of the 28 European Union members. Growth, unemployment, and the positive performance in production have been achieved without compromise from fiscal discipline. Mr. President, the most important issue of Turkey's MPs is to reduce the dependence on imports of production and exports, increase added values and technology infrastructure in our country. Thus, the current explanation is intended to reduce the relationship between growth. To this end, efforts to increase production, exports and investments continue, and on the other hand, policies that govern imports are being created and conducted. Thanks to our stable and predictable policies over the last decade, we've created a security environment in the economy. Thus, international direct investments in our country amounted to $13.6 billion by 2002, from 2003 until 131 billion, and a total of about 145 billion. To be used for all such purposes and activities, the Economy Ministry's 2014 budget increased by 6 per cent compared to 2013, totaling $1 billion 454m 444,000. In the coming period, we will continue to improve our country's prosperity by developing economic policies and measures, according to the needs of the production and export-based growth model. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are not only counting investments made by the AK PARTY authorities, but the numbers are there. The AK PARTY was not a party that comforted our citizens with idle talk, but it did what it promised in the party program and in the squares. We do not see enough of the services done so far, we continue to work with all our strength, day and night, for the sake of our nation's prosperity and happiness, in order for our country to become stronger, more respected in the world, among the 10 largest economies in the world. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I end my words, I wish that the 2014 budget would be a source of good service for our country and for our dear nation, and I thank all those who have worked to prepare the budget, especially our Prime Minister, our ministers, and our deputies, and your high delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0282par0076	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the fourth speaker is İlknur Denizli, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0283par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Ministry of Development budget. I salute our coven. At the beginning of my words, it has been a successful year for our Ministry of Development, as it has been for our government in 2013. The planned development period, the Tenth Development Plan, the Central Future Program and 2014 programme were prepared, with regional Development National Strategy plans and regional development action plans at the final stage of preparations. The 5th Economic Congress was held, the Izmir Economic Congress. We set our development policy to reveal the resources of our country and to use our existing potential efficiently as government. We never miss the need to be a social government. We keep in mind that what we call development is not a single goal expressed by numbers, that everything we do and do is the ultimate goal of happiness and peace for the people of this country. Our development policy is stable, and all segments of society look forward to economic growth, where growth gets a share of the positive outcomes of development. The goals of our government and party for development include the rule of law, information society, international competitiveness, human development, conservation of the environment and sustainable use of resources. Mr. President, our 10th Development Plan, which represents the 100th anniversary of our republic, is consistent with the vision of 2023, and is on four basic axises. The first of these can be met under international co-operation heads for development, for innovative production, for stable high growth, for sustainable spaces, for sustainable environments, for fourth and last axis. As a party that has ruled the country for 11 years, we know that our responsibility is not limited to this day, that the trust our people have shown us, that it has imposed on us the right planning of this country's future. We are moving rapidly towards becoming a global force by guiding the young and dynamic population we have. We've made an important development move in the last 11 years. The point that we have reached in terms of development and economic development during the time of EC PARTY governments is appreciated throughout the world. Actually, we need to talk about development knowing what kind of world we live in. We must be aware of the situation of other countries as we evaluate Turkey's data. In the end, every variable in the world we live in now has a close relationship and interaction with each other. As our country enters the great economies of the world, we are affected by the economic and political challenges of the countries outside of us, whether we want to or not. Thanks to our government and economic administration's rational and country-protecting policies, our country is protected from the devastating effects of the world's crisis. However, being affected by this change in the world, the fact that the world can't grow at the desired speed also shows the need for us to constantly make new arrangements based on new situations in order to achieve our goals. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm happy to give you one right at the end of my words. Our Ministry of Development has made valuable contributions to our country's progress in the right way. He plans for us to grow, to develop, to become a richer, fairer, happier country. He celebrates our ministry, wishes our 2014 budget to be good for our country, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0284par0089	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the fifth speaker is Kütahya MP Vural Katuncu.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0285par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we're talking about our Development Ministry budget, Turkey's development. The AK PARTY, with a centralized understanding of Turkey's development and change as its will, is a party that has always been requited and valued by its policies and practices. Our country is growing every day, changing the shell, growing. Everyone with a common sense, a conscience sees it and appreciates it. His memory is damaged by five Aprils, so one forgets. If you were to return to Turkey before the EC PARTY, you would feel as if you had entered the time tunnel, in another Turkey. So far, major changes have been made in health, transportation, education, cities with EC PARTY governments. I'd like to give you examples of my own constituency, Kütahya. Where were we in 2002, today, 2013? Our province rose to the 38th ranking on the 40th row of socioeconomic development. According to TÜİK statistics in 2012, the province of Kütahya is the first province with the lowest unemployment rate. Our annual export was 42.5 million dollars, increasing by 340 per cent to 145.5 million dollars. Hopefully, this increase will continue by accelerating in the coming years. Electricity consumption per capita is one of the indicators of development. In 2002, it increased from 950 kilowatts to 3,350 kilowatts. How well our people express their expectations of us! They say, "Let you have spiked nails, obelisks, smoking chimneys." This is how we look at Kütahya (Kütahya) during the AK PARTY. In 2002, there were only one organised industry and 15 factories and 600 employees in Kütahya. Today, there are four organized in Kütahya, two in Kütahya, one in Rabbit, and one in Gediz County. From Kütahya to Germany, Spain is being exported to the car seatcase. The rabbit makes cables for important automobile brands. From Gediz, dozens of truckloads of ceramics are carried to the world every day. A total of 7,750 people work at 79 factories currently operating in 6 million square metres of the Kütahya organisation. These are the numbers from this month, and in the coming years, we're going to give a much bigger number. There will be nearly 3,000 jobs in our district alone, along with new factories. These things don't just happen. For our 2023 goals, we have provided support for our local industry, our workers, our labor, our domestic capital, and the branded products produced in Turkey, which are working hard on investment, employment and production, which continue to grow despite crises. Up until now, the OSBs in Kütahya have been transferred to $13.2m. In the incentive system, Kütahya is the fourth district, our organisation is the fifth district. While employment support under Law 5084 was terminated, it was extended again for the provinces of the 1st group in Kütahya (Kütahya). We have provided 778 KOBI and an entrepreneur with $4.1m in support of the service and trade sector by KOSGEB. Big investments have been made in education, and our new projects are still under way. We had 784 schools across the county at the first and middle school level, 963 schools today. We had 23,500 students at our university, 46,500 students today. He became one of the most popular campuses in our country with student dorms, social facilities, sports, Olympic swimming pools. We have professors, professors, professors, at the Hodja Çelebi Hospital. Since there are no cardiologists, hundreds of open-heart surgeries are being performed at our hospital today. In sports, there were youth centers, athletic runways, stats, synthetic grass fields. Decent lawmakers, the renewed Turkey has been spending $4.6 billion in public investment and transfers in developing Kütahya, from health to education, from justice to transport, infrastructure services to dams, sports investments, in 11 years. Today, those who couldn't make three feet of road in their term, who couldn't add one sick bed to their hometown, who couldn't put a smoking chimney, are now critical of us. They speak, and you make Judah a village. They cry out, "Our people are serving, using, and praying. After that, they wonder, "Why is he getting so many votes in Kütahya? Dear lawmakers, the human factor in development, the work of society, social services, our most important development. We will effectively provide them in the next Tenth Development Plan. I wish you all the best in the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0286par0105	Thank you. On behalf of AK PARTY, the sixth speaker is Yunus Kılıç, Kars MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0287par0108	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have been promised the budget of the Ministry of Development, and I salute you all. Honourable MPs, I would like to continue with an article I read in one of the most popular newspapers in England about three years ago. This article was an article about researching the land where the ancestors of an Armenian-born American artist came from. It says: "This is the village of Karakale, on the border of Kars, where the fathers of the Armenian artist were born. We traveled through this village, and we found that there was not much change in the painting of the Middle Ages when they were still living in that village. When others read it, they may not be too impressed, but because the region was our territory, our village, our locality, it caused us a lot of different feelings. What was the conclusion that had to come out of this? What was in this land six hundred years ago came to this day without much change. I thought it was time to think about the inconspicuousness of this period, the poverty, the poverty. The esteemed MPs, I think, were: the people of this region were not ignorant, they were not lazy, it was not the fate of Allah; it was just a centralist head; it was in Ankara, it was in Istanbul; they were making decisions about Kars, Ardahan, Erzurum, Rize, Edirne, but they were far away from knowing the conditions, the climate of those places, and the needs of those places, and they were never that close. Think about it, you live in one part of the country, you develop a project in Antalya, and with decisions from Ankara, with a centralist mentality, you try to do the same thing to Kars, Edirne, and hope to get the results that your people have been waiting for. That's not an attitude that goes beyond imagination. For hundreds of years, our country has suffered the burden of this jam. Until when? Until the day the regional development plans were made. It's not a long story. As a result of a change of mentality that began with the EC PARTY, it began with an understanding that instead of a country that was decided by the centre, it took you to the center, but started progress from rural and rural and peripheral. To create the infrastructure of this, respected lawmakers, of course, you can plan something, but you have to have institutions that know about it, bring information from those areas, plan it, oversee the consequences, investigate what changes people's lives have caused. Especially as the Tenth Development Plan was planned, serious goals were being set in our country that no longer existed. What was one of them, the esteemed lawmakers? More or less, at the end of 2018, $16,000 per person, 1.3 trillion per person, an average of 5.5 per cent growth and 4 million new jobs. How are you going to do that from Ankara? How are you going to do that with your old centrifugal head? Here is one of the most important things that will prevent the country from continuing planned developments -- respected lawmakers, the Ministry of Development -- starting regional development offices, with a sense and a thought that didn't exist in the past, with a manner of management and attitude, and launching development agencies in the region. These decisions will now be determined where these regional offices, development agencies are located, the potentials of the regions will be uncovered, the needs of the region will be determined, sir, rational investments will be made, results will be determined and outputs will be taken; it will be revealed how life in society, life in those areas has changed, and how these investments have been affected. And then he thinks the disorganized spending and the investments that never meet our people's needs will be prevented, and he wishes the Ministry of Development to have a good budget, and I give you respect.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0288par0113	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the seventh speaker is Popeye Coshkun, Yalova MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0289par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group for Turkey's Statistical Agency budget budget on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill talks. I salute our great nation and you, our esteemed councillors, with respect and love. Turkey's Statistical Institution, whose short name is TÜİK, establishes a digital bridge between the past and the future, providing secure information to all institutions and institutions. It is possible to identify the needs needed for a country's development, determine goals, and observe progress with reliable statistical information. It's very important for our country's present and future to create a strong statistical system infrastructure to provide the information needed to make the right and quick decision. TÜİK is an institution tasked with producing statistics according to national and international norms. The most important work in recent years has been to harmonise national computing methods with the European Union's statistical norms. In the international statistical system, he's just a country that's out of practice, setting the system, being part of the leading actors. Thanks to the technical capacity developed by both national funds and EU support, the TİK has constantly renewed itself to an important institution in the international statistical community. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are one of the most important defining features in the modern world, no doubt the age of knowledge. Our country is progressing step by step in the process of innovation and parallel development in every sector, in every sector, in every sector, in the age of knowledge. As globalization progresses, the need for up-to-date and detailed information increases. It is possible to obtain this information at minimum cost, but with the establishment of administrative registration systems that provide a certain standard. In light of accurate and reliable information, development and progress can be successfully conducted. That's why we're investing the most in our budget in education, in RD investments. Our governments' implementations of RD, incentives and support have opened the door to national, regional and local new practices. In this regard, the East Marmara Development Agency, established in our region, provides significant support for our entrepreneur with financial and technical support programmes. In total, 183 projects have been applied for and 72 have been successfully supported and supported in our Yalova alone. Yalova ranked first, with a 30 per cent share, according to the provinces that form the eastern Marmara region among successful projects. In addition, Yalova, where agriculture and flowering flourish, is home to flowering investments. Again, the Plantation Restoration Project with strawberry flavors is being implemented in our province. Organic strawberries, which were first raised in Turkey, are more productive, are produced in Yalova. You can eat fresh and organic strawberries between April and November. Half the kiwi production in our country is made in Yalova. Again, 1,500 of Turkey's geophide gardens are located in our Yalova, and are newly established. Congressmans, this project, the first in our country, is a collection of the world's most endemic geofite species. This project, adopted by our Ministry of Development in 2011, costs $5,500,000. Mr. President, we've done a lot of things, we've done a lot of things, but we're not looking at what we're doing, we're looking at what we're going to do. We've been working tirelessly and tirelessly for 11 years, and we're still working. Our work in every field is appreciated by our beloved nation, and I hope it will again. On March 30, 2014, we will again appear before our nation and renew our report card. With that thought and emotion, I thank all our cabinet members and all those who have worked hard, especially our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been working on the draft budget for 2014, and I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0290par0127	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the eighth speaker is Sıtki Güvenç, Deputy Heromarash.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0291par0130	Mr. President, in the eighth round of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of Turkey's Statistical Institution and statistical activities of TİİK. I salute you all and our beloved nation with respect and love. Mr. President, the right policies for the development of a country today depend on our ability to do accurate quantitative analysis in science and social sciences. For these analyses to be done, it is vital that safe data be collected, processed, and analyzed using statistical techniques. As an EC PARTY, we have made and continue to make arrangements and attacks in every area of life during 11 years of our power. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the state's main data collection institution, Turkey's Statistical Institution, has been established in international standards a user-oriented, sustainable statistical system, making it a research institution that uses technology and new methods of statistical science at the highest level. Taking into account the needs and priorities of national and international users, quality, current, reliable, consistent, unbiased, neutral, providing statistics in line with international standards, offering them to use, and providing co-motivation among institutions in the process of formal statistics production. Turkey's Statistical Agency has been transformed into a research and analysis organisation that uses the new methods of technology and statistics at its highest. Proof that the institution has carried out this mission in the best possible way is that it has increased confidence in the data it produces within the country. In addition, the assessment reports of international pennies such as the IMF, OECD countries, the United Nations Statistical Unit are clearly expressed in Turkey's data. We all know that these organizations can't come to this conclusion without further study and research. TECHNIC is compiling statistics in international standards with information collected in many areas. In 2013, 74 studies were conducted with 3,696 personnel, directly compiling data from the area across the country. News bulletins are still being broadcast on specific occasions to increase the understanding and availability of produced data. In this framework, special publications on women, children, youth, family, demographics and entrepreneurship have been made. The results of the children's study were published in 2013. The consumer Trust Index was introduced and published in 2013 in line with the European Union programme. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been renovated by TİK based on current administrative records, and for the first time, population projections have been produced by 2075 for the sum of Turkey and for the provinces by 2023. In addition, the address was conducted on administrative record and housing research in 2011, different from previous censuses, in order to provide detailed information on buildings and housing from the Local Registering System, labour power, disability, immigration, fertility and death information. As part of the study, about nine million people were interviewed in 2.2 million households. The results of the study were shared by the public in January 2013. As is known, the identification of accurate and current information was a constant debate before the address was established. The curfew was imposed at intervals for ten years, and the censuses were done this way, and information that did not meet these current needs was obtained. Since 2007, we have been able to learn our population correctly a month after the end of the year. So, with the AK PARTI power, we got rid of the most primitive practice, such as the curfew for the census, and we were able to access the most accurate data. This is where the AK PARTY brings our country. Hopefully, these reforms will continue in the future. So we can't thank the AK PARTY enough. I'd like to thank the AK PARTY and TİK employees for their work, and hope the 2014 budget is a blessing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0292par0138	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the ninth speaker is Abdurrahim Akdağ, Mardin MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0293par0141	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2014 budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration. I salute your high council and my beloved nation. Valuable lawmakers, the Southeast Anatolia Project is a project that aims to assess the resources of the region and improve the income and quality of life for our people in this region, to address intergalactic differences, and economic development and social stability at a national level. The physics of the project, which was based in the 1960s, was called "GAP" in 1980, was 15 per cent to our power. With EC PARTI power, the GAP is almost finished, accepted as a Turkey project. In ten years, five times what has been done in forty years has been done. In 2002, the funding for the GAP is $578m, and today it has increased by 10 times as much as the amount of $5.2 billion, as of September 2013. As of 2012, the GAP meets 48% of the country's energy with 10 hydropower plants. The GAP, which will provide jobs for about 4 million people, has been opened to water a total of 378,000 hectares by the end of 2012. By the end of 2012, a total of 843.4km of main channel was opened. Of these, the main channel of Lower Mardin is 28.5 km (28.5 km) of the 1st section; of the lower Mardin Main Canal is 42.8 km (42.8 km) of the 2nd section; of the lower Mardin Main Canal, 37.3 km (37.3 km). In the field of education, 11,313 classrooms at primary and secondary school level, 9.100 students were completed in 2008-2012. As part of the Social Support Programme, about 1.2 million people have been reached with the amount of $341m. Two youth centres for the young are completed in Diyarbakır. The GAP Action Plan and the 1.2 million hectares of assembly in Mardin and other cities have been targeted. In comparison to the GAP Action Plan and the 1 million hectares of collectiveization for a century, a very impressive work will be done. Work has been conducted in 1,881 villages, where 1,881 million people have benefited from the GAP land collection and field development services so far, and a collection of 2.1 million hectares has been completed. At the Ilisu Dam, it is 60 per cent of the physical fulfillment that has already begun. In the cities in the GAP region, 2 (5) of natural gas projects have been completed, and the construction of the remaining 3 projects is under way. The contract was signed and planned to be completed by January 2015. The Gaziantep-Shanliurfa highway, the Gaziantep circuit road section, the Gaziantep-Onezik section, is completed in the area of the Special-Challourfa. Glory is 95 percent of the way the Redfeet-Silopi are divided. Batman Airport terminal opened in 2010, Şırnak Şerafettin Elçi Airport opened in 2013; Mardin Airport's new track was completed in 2012, and the new terminal building was planned to be launched in February 2014. In addition to economic development, the GAP has helped eliminate many of the problems caused by terrorism that have caused major destruction in the region over the past 30 years. The economic gains provided by the GAP (GAP) and the security environment of the solution process will increase investments in the region and increase employment and prosperity in the region. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with this feeling and thought, I wish the 2014 budget to be a blessing to our country, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0294par0154	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the tenth speaker is Yehia Akman, the Şanlıurfa MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0295par0157	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have also taken a pledge on the 2014 budget for the chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, the GAP project, originally envisioned for the development of land and water resources, later turned into a total development project; the process that began in six cities continued its life as nine provinces after the province of 3 districts. The GAP project, which aims to develop in many areas, from energy watering, from transport to education, from health to tourism, from the restoration of cultural values to the development of employment, agriculture to agriculture, is basically a chicken that lays golden eggs. As we defend this project, we have stated that every cent invested here over the years would soon return to the country's economy quickly and will grow both the region and the country as a result of the snow ball. Today, thank God, the numbers have confirmed us. The GAP project's master plan envisioned spending $51.5 billion on 2012 values. Today, as of 2013, I have to say that this number has reached $53.2 billion over 51.5 billion. We need to say that this amount will amount to 87 billion dollars in total, given that the new five-year programme between 2014 and 2018 is envisioned for another $33.8 billion. Dear lawmakers, the GAP project's course and fate should not be separated from the fate and course of the country. We have observed that this project is almost at a standstill, especially during the coalition and during the economic crisis. However, after 2002, we see that the funding for this place has increased, along with the AK PARTY authorities. It is a fact that in previous times, up to 2002, watering projects had a rate of about 11 per cent, but it actually caused the soil to become barren and desertized due to false irrigation. Today, the watering projects -- as you know -- continue with new techniques. By 2002, only 1.92 billion -- I mean, 2012 in the irrigation field -- is spent money for irrigation, and if we say that $1.25 billion was spent only for irrigation in 2013, we'll be able to express once again the significance of this project during the AK PARTI period. Of course, by the way, May 15, 2008 is a generation for the GAP project, dear friends. With the GAP Action Plan, which our prime minister, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, announced in Diyarbakır, the project has begun to flourish. After this project, our Suruç, an area of about 1 million decelerables, has received a lion's share of these funds -- and today we are describing the time when the Suruç tunnels will be opened. Years and months are gone, and in days, the tunnels of Suruç will be finished, and the Suruç Watering Project will be finished, and Suruç will be watered this summer. Dear friends, today, the local people are now awaiting a new plan of action between 2014 and 2018. Because with this action plan, we expect 446 projects to come to life, with about 229 new ones. The feature of action plans in our time -- I've just expressed -- is that it predicts total development, so we're talking about a total integrated project until we water the soil, without watering the soil consciously, without watering the soil, and the population will be able to satisfy the need for education, to market the products that have been acquired, and to provide new added value. The whole area is considered within these programmes until the need for infrastructure, transportation, health care and housing. I've explained to you that this project is the chicken that lays golden eggs. Look, about half of the hydroelectric energy in Turkey today has come from hydropower plants operating in this region. And if I were to give you a number on exports, 689 million liras were exported from this region in 2002, and I said that this amount is $8.1 billion today, and its share in Turkey is up from 2.3% to 5.3 per cent, I would be able to explain much better what the GAP is. On this occasion, I wish all our 2014 budgets, especially our Development Ministry, would be a blessing for our country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0296par0166	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the eleventh speaker, Mustafa Bilici, Van MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0297par0169	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budget of the DAP Regional Development Administration. I salute you all. The Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration was established in 2011 with a decree issued under the rule of law under our government. The DAP Regional Development Administration includes Ağrı, Ardahan, Bingöl, Bitlis, Elazığ, Erzincan, Erzurum, Hakkari, Iğdır, Kars, Malatya, Mush, Tunceli and Van. The purpose of the DAP Administration is to prepare an action plan to speed up development of the region, co-ordinate and assess the implementation of investment projects, ensure that the investment projects of relevant institutions and organisations are conducted within the integrity. The head of the DAP Regional Development Administration carried out activities aimed at drafting an action plan in 2013. The draft of the DAP Action Plan was created by organizing workshops with public institutions and organisations, agencies, universities and NGOs. The draft of the DAP Action Plan was designed within the framework of the five main development axiss -- increasing efficiency in economic sectors in the region, improving quality of life in urban settlements, strengthening of human, social capital, developing institutional capacity, basic infrastructure services and environmental protection. In the new economic world order, it is very important to think globally and act locally. Getting rid of the sense of centrifugalism, providing economic development in the local community, mobilising the potential in the local community, will minimize the difference in inter-state development. With that understanding, the DAP Administration will conduct research, planning, projecting services required by investments in the eastern Anatolia provinces. The East Anatolian Region is Turkey's largest region, covering 19 per cent of Turkey's area. As of the 90s, the Eastern Anatolian region has given intense migration due to socioeconomic causes and problems within the region. According to TÜİK data, the province has the largest population in the region, and the province with the least population is Tucson. When we study the economic activities of the Eastern Anatolian region, specific sectors are particularly prominent. These sectors are a source of tourism, agriculture, animalism and underground resources. Today, one of the most important sources of income in developed countries is no doubt tourist inputs. The Eastern Anatolian region is very rich in its natural potential when its tourism data is examined. However, reasons such as infrastructure, lack of facilities and security issues in the region cannot transform that potential into economic input. With proper and proper applications, especially winter, thermal, faith, and history tourism can be improved, and the region can be greatly contributed. In the DAP region, which also has rich potential in the animal industry, 21 per cent of its large animal presence in Turkey and 27 per cent of its small animal presence are in this region. The capital milk production in the Eastern Anatolian Region is 18 per cent in Turkey, while the small milk production in Turkey is 28 per cent. Dear friends, there has been a significant increase in public investments in the Eastern Anatolian region during our EC PARTY administrations. Total public investments increased about seven times in 2003-2013. Of the 2012 public investments in the DAP region, the education sector received 30 per cent. Again, in 2003-2013, the number of classrooms appeared to have increased by 71 per cent. In the healthcare sector, the DAP area was 90 in 2002, while 54 new hospitals were added and the number reached 144. The transport sector had a total network of 256km in the DAP area prior to 2013, with a 12fold increase in 2013, reaching 3.120km. Dear friends, the actions of our governments have been economic vigour in all parts of Turkey, with economic policies implemented. Hopefully, with new development models and planning, the progress rate of East Anatolia will also increase, and it will be an attractive area for investments. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our 2014 budget to be good, with respect.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0298par0182	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the 12th speaker is Gülay Samancı, MP of the Conconium.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0299par0185	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the KOP Regional Development Administration in the Ministry of Development on the budget of 2014. I salute the High Council. The head of the KOP Regional Development Administration was established in 2011 as a branch of our Ministry of Development with the aim of moving the KOP region 2023 and 2071, which is the capital of Çallahöyuk and Seljuklu, a city of tolerance and love, to its goals. The KOP region consists of the provinces of Aksaray, Karaman, Konya and Niğde, and aims to implement research, planning, programming, projecting, monitoring, evaluation and co-ordination services required by investments and projects for development, and to speed up development of the region. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our government has placed the policy of reducing the gaps in development between regions, accelerating regional and local development at the focus of both our development efforts and our goal of social welfare across the country. The basic strategy for new regional development is to ensure the amount of activity and rights that are possible at the same time. It is our priority to promote regional development practices, development opportunities, opportunities for the entire country during our administration. We're here, on the local basis, transitioning to production culture, to the maximum use of the potential of our regions and to the bottom of the ceiling, based on participation. The action plan, which is being prepared, will reflect a sense of environmental and transformational development, as the region has to deal with severe droughts and lack of water, as well as severe climate change challenges. Under this understanding, land collection, agricultural infrastructure and exponential work will be the focus of the KOP Action Plan (KOP) on innovative urbanisation, smart urban perspectives, renewable energy and railways, as well as on the basis of the KOP Action Plan. Dear friends, the COP Administration is co-ordinating the Ministry of Development, while the Co-ordinating Program for Recovery and Proliferation of Small Scale Watering Systems in cooperation with the province's special administrations because of the importance and priority of the matter. As part of this programme, a total of 233 irrigation projects in the KOP region in 2011 and 2012 and 35,000 hectares have acquired modern irrigation systems that allow the use of water to be saved. The watering problem of 102 settlements in most low-income and densely migratory mountain regions will have been removed and the addition value of high product will have been supported by a grant of 74 million euros in 2013. The KOP Area Small Scale Recovery Systems Recovery and Proliferation Programme will be continued in the coming years, because due to lack of water in the KOP region in particular, the savings irrigation systems are largely needed. Public investments in the KOP region, expected to increase with the KOP Action Plan, were estimated at 1.2 billion dollars for 2013. The KOP included eight major water projects in the 2013 Investment Programme. It will be stored in 204.9 million cubic metres of water with the Blue Tunnel Project, which will bring water to the basin from outside, and will be transferred to the Blue Tunnel, which is 17km [17 km] long, with the completion of the Afşar and Bozır dams, which also feeds the Bağbaşı Dam. The COP Development Administration budget for 2014 was set at $88,644,000, regardless of the additional resources provided for the planned KOP Action Plan budget. I wish you all the best for our country and our region, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0300par0193	On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the final speaker is Mehmet Comen, Giresun MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0301par0194	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in the budget bill of 2014 on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration. I hereby salute your high council and my nation. This project is a regional development project that aims to assess the resources of the East Black Sea Region, to improve the income and quality of life for our people living in this area, to address inter-state and internal differences, to contribute to economic development and social stability at a national level. On 8 June 2011, the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was established as the head of the Constitution for the co-ordination of the DOCAP, and for the preparation of the DOKAP Action Plan. The East Black Sea Project began to be implemented in a region of 3,872,793 people, whose area is 48,256 square miles [48,256 km] and within 8 provinces of 2012. The cities in the project area are ranked in the 2011 socioeconomic development rankings of the cities, respectively: Tripoli 31, Samsun 33, Rize 34, Artvin 44, Giresun 52, Army 61, Silverhouse 62, Bayburt 64. As you can see from this order, the region has a structure that differs in terms of development. The East Black Sea Project operates at the head of the Regional Development Administration, the Vice President, 12 temporary, 19 staff members, 31 technical services and general administration servants and 27 staff employees. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have carried out several activities under the work of the DOCAP Action Plan. In this context, all studies in the DOCAP area have been scanned and considered as much use as possible. Thus, earlier plans and implementation results of these plans have been evaluated. In light of the data received, preparations for the draft DOKAP Action Plan project list as president have been completed, and evaluation meetings have been held with the chiefs of strategy development and other institutions of the relevant ministries. Following this assessment, the DOCAP Action Plan is about to be finalised with the ministry's opinions and recommendations. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, again, one of the most important projects of the DOKAP is the Green Road Project. The Green Road represents an average of 2,350km long road, which is located in the framework of the tourism master plan, connecting the bow and tourism centers from the top jeans, with the beginning of Samsun province, and the end of Artvin Sarp Border Gate. In this scope, in 2013, protocols were signed by our Ministry of Development with the DOCAP Administration and eight governors of the province in May 2013, with a total of $8m and a total of $40m. IN 2014, the DOCAP Administration was earmarked 47 million euros to implement the Green Road Project, which is aimed at combining the region's major plateaus and rural settlements to create a new tourist attraction. The remaining amount of this figure is planned to be used in the tourism financial support programme to improve some pathways with 40 million TL. Already, preparations for the implementation of a joint financial support programme by the development agencies DOKA, OKA, KUDAKA for development of tourism are under way on the Green Road route. According to protocols, the construction of the Green Road has begun to be implemented by the governorship and the state's private administrations. The Watch, Evaluation and audit procedures on the Green Road are carried out by the presidency. With this feeling and thinking, I wish our country and our nation the best of the 2014 Financial Year Budget Bill.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit03spe0302par0202	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0302par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Müslim Yıyükda, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0303par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the economy ministry budget for 2014. I salute everyone. Every budget has a theme. The main theme of this budget was the Court reports. So I'd like to say a few words about the Court's reports. Dear lawmakers, budget rights are the basis for all political and constitutional developments in the world. The entire process, which began from Magna Carta, to the French Revolution, is based on the pursuit of the tax account of the citizen. So it's important, and the right to budget is given to parliament. Parliaments also supervise whether the budget rights have been met properly. We're actually doing two things here, we're talking about the 2014 budget, and we're talking about the final accounts for 2012. So, we're declaring 2012. How do we declare it? We will submit with the Court's reports. The Court is a hundred and fifty years old, an institution that is older than the history of the Republic of Turkey, so through reports from the Court, the ruling party MPs and opposition party MPs will make an assessment, and as a result of this assessment, they will submit the accounts, just as the private sector board, the audit board members. However, you know, in 2003, there was a legal arrangement -- the Public Financial Management and Control Law -- and the entire accounting system was changed fundamentally. It was assumed that a system would be established in accordance with European Union standards, modern, transparent and accountable. In 2006, this law came into effect in all aspects. In line with this, the Court Act was issued in 2010. But even though we arrived in 2013, and it had been nine years since 2012, when the law came into effect, and it had been nearly seven years since it came into effect, we were unable, in accordance with the law, to arrange and bring the Court's reports to your attention. Now, someone has to be responsible for this. I'm telling you very clearly, the budget rights have been violated. Both the Court and the Government are responsible for the violation of the budget rights. A violation of budget rights is as important a crime as a coup. It is such a serious crime that Parliament cannot maintain such control, just as a coup crime is the most important crime in a system, the fact that the citizens' tax rights and taxes they receive cannot be audited. This crime has been committed. Now, after this general assessment, I'd like to share with you our thoughts on economics on the basis of the budget of the Ministry of Economy. Dear lawmakers, in previous talks, and in talks from the government, there has always been a mild, positive climate, a positive perception of the economy. But there's also an empty side to the glass, but this empty side is never brought up or spoken to. Now, I'm going to try to tell you a little bit about the empty side of the glass, and the first thing I'm going to say is that there's no Turkish miracle, so Turkey grew up too fast, grew up too high, one of the world's fastest-growing countries, the economy of Turkey in the AKP era has done miracles; there's no such thing. Look, I'm giving you the official figures of the state: Turkish economy has average growth as of ten years, according to TİK figures. The Turkish economy will grow 4.9 per cent during the AKP administrations' period, even assuming that the 2003-2013, middle-term goals have been met. Since the Republic was established, the average growth of Turkey's economy is 5 per cent by 2002 until the AKP came to power. So during the AKP administrations, Turkey grew below the historical averages of the Turkish economy, but as far as potential, I say very cautiously, it grew below its potential. The second point is to compare whether there is a Turkish miracle; see, Turkey's comparisons with developing countries at the same time: these bars are the averages of developing countries, and the blues next to them are the average growth of Turkey's economy. I took two semesters, 2003-2007, pre-crisis, 2008-2012, post-crisis period. Development countries have grown by 7.6 per cent, Turkey has grown by 6.9 per cent, which is below the performance of developing countries. We'll move on to after the crisis. The growth performance of developing countries has dropped a bit, 5.4, but Turkey's has dropped more, Turkey's growth average is 3.2. Thus, this shows that there is a separate story about Turkey, that the economic model in Turkey is blocked, and that it cannot perform more positively than in other developing countries. See, our place in the world, two paintings: First, according to the acquisition power parity, Turkey's income to the person in the world economy was 63, at one point down to 58, so Turkey dropped from the world during the AKP administrations in 2012. The world's 17th largest economy. At first, it was already the 17th largest economy when you came to power. In the 1980s, we had better performances in the 1990s. Therefore, Turkey's place in the world has declined in your growth performance, Mr. Minister. What you can't do, what you can't solve is unemployment. See, Commissioner Lütfi Abi declared the 1990s to be a lost year, and in those dark and lost years, many of Turkey's problems were in a better position than in the 1990s. Look, I'll show you a graph. In the 1980s, the unemployment rate in Turkey's economy was 8.3 in the 1990s, 8.2 per cent in Turkey's economy in the years you called it the dark years, in the years of instability, when governments arrived. The crisis, the largest crisis in the history of the republic, increased unemployment by 10.8 per cent and 14 per cent in 2009. How many now? There are 9.2 in 2012, 9.8 now in 1980, and over the 1990s, an unemployment average in Turkey, and unemployment has increased since autumn. Turkey's economy's hard luck is clear. Look, there's an inverse relationship between current transaction deficits and growth in Turkey. Every country in the world may have a current account deficit, but it's one of the few countries in Turkey that has to give out current transactions in order to grow, and what's interesting is that Turkey is having a period of growing and deepening the current account deficit that it has to give per unit growth. This is not the result of an economic model invented by the AKP, but the AKP is one of our growing structural problems that has deepened in its hands, and the government has found no solution here over the past decade. As a result, Turkey is one of the world's highest operational deficits in terms of the current transaction deficit. We were at 10 percent, down to 6.2 percent in 2012, but we were only better than South Africa and Ukraine. However, we are now heading towards 7 percent, which we will complete more than 7 percent of the year. Thus, Turkey is one of the world's most current countries. The Prime Minister boasts that our debt rates are running low. He says, "Where are we going?" He says, "We've taken it from here, we've brought it here." Yes, public debt has been reduced, but since the current transaction deficit was financed by loan creative pens, someone had to finance that debt. Who did this? The private sector did it. See, the Turkish private sector's foreign debt stocks are 43 billion in foreign debt collected by all private sector companies in Turkey from the time of the republic's formation to 2002. How many now? 252 billion, so the private sector's external debt has increased six times over the last ten years. If you give so many current transaction deficits, if you put the financing of this current transaction deficit into the private sector, that's where the stockpile of debt comes in. He never talks about it, Prime Minister. These are official government figures. See, the fragility of the Turkish economy is growing. I'll show you two graphs. There's no need to go too far. One is the real-estate exchange position gaps. The difference between the real sector's debt in exchanges and its assets in foreign currency and its assets in foreign currency is 18 billion when the AKP comes to power, which is now 164 billion, Turkish real sector companies, who invest, produce jobs, are 165 billion dollars more vulnerable than Turkish real sector companies have in exchanges. The fragility of the Turkish economy is growing. Look, Mr. Prime Minister prides himself on the central bank reserves, we've come from here to there. Why does a country save reserves?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0304par0028	Because he owes me money.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0303par0029	To meet their own foreign obligations, especially their short-term obligations. The relationship between a country's short-term debt and its reserves is based on this being 1. See, this is the 1 line; this is the ratio of the reserves of the Republic of Turkey to the short-term debt of the Central Bank reserves, and this ratio was much higher when the AKP first came to power, falling downwards. The fragility of the Turkish economy is growing, lawmakers. See, in the next year, Turkey's economy needs $225 billion in resources. We're due at $165 billion, 60-65 billion, we're going to be short on current transactions, 225 billion and loanable funds in the world. If we talked about this two years ago, we'd have said it was $2 trillion, but there are people who say it's $1 trillion today. I mean, Turkey has to afford more and more funding from an increasingly narrowing cake than from a shrinking cake. This means the fragility of the Turkish economy is growing. The reverse of the FED's operations next term will reverse the direction of the money and further the growth of Turkey's economy will increase, and its unemployment will increase. One of the things we never talk about is inflation. See, in 2006, we switched to inflation targeting. We haven't been able to achieve inflation in seven years. We only got two years, and that's by altering original targets. Now, if you accept 2004 100, if you categorize the targets, if you think they're going to happen, you'll see about 40 percent of the difference. This is a credit deficit. This is a credit deficit from the government and the Central Bank. So there's a Central Bank that's never been able to meet its inflation targets since 2006. As a result, in a conjunctural where money has changed direction, there's an economic path where growth rates have dropped, unemployment has started to rise, unemployment will rise, the current deficit is high, so the vulnerability of the economy has risen, and inflation targets don't hold, and the cost remains high. This budget doesn't see any of this path, it doesn't predict any of it. It is not a budget prepared with a story but rather a budget designed to signal the need to finance foreign capital. I wish you well, though.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0305par0036	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is Umit Özüşmiş, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0306par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I made a commitment to the Ministry of Development budget, but I really don't know which ministry to talk about, because in Turkey, the economy, development, which ministry depends on, who, who is responsible for who. There's a Ministry of Development about Turkey's development and economy, Mr. Minister of Economics here; there's a Ministry of Economy here; there's a Ministry of State for Economics, and there's a Ministry for Economics that I don't know whether or not they're parallel to them. From time to time, his statements, his interests, his jurisdictions, are intertwined...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0307par0041	Gas man, brake man...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0306par0042	We really don't know exactly which ministry budget to discuss economic issues. There's something in the army; they move an egg to three people, they break three, and in Turkey, they tie the economy to three ministries, they break the economy's egg. Many numbers have been raised since the start of budget talks. In particular, AKP lawmakers read many numbers from the papers given to their hands. If you take out certain numbers in a sack of numbers, you'll fly Turkey, but just now my friend, Müslim Sarı, spilled the gildation of the economy. If you put some numbers out there, you'll see what really happened. But most importantly, there is no serious investment in manufacturing industry in AKP power, except for investments in energy and inefficient areas due to the wrong economic policies. Therefore, the current is constantly increasing, depending on the foreign trade deficit and its current account. I sometimes listen to the TV talks of Minister Çalayan, how they fly exports, what countries they export to around the world, but it's as if the Republican People's Party, which imports, doesn't say imports. And look, Mr. Yellow exports, given the current numbers, I won't go in too much, but it's only getting bigger and more dangerous this year than 70.2 percent of exports in the first nine months, but a year later, this year, it's still 62.1 percent in the first nine months, and since it can't be shut down from other channels, it's getting bigger and more dangerous. In the first nine months of 2012, $35.7 billion was open, up to 49 billion in the first nine months of 2013. Well, it doesn't really matter that the current deficit has grown nominally, it doesn't matter that it may have grown into illegal domestic product, it may have grown with it, but what's true is that the current deficit's illegal domestic product ratio has increased to 7.9 percent this year, and when we looked at it in the first nine months of last year, it also increased to 6.1 percent of the domestic population. Here, the world-accessed danger limit or the red alert is 5 percent of the unofficial domestic product. So Turkey is already in dangerous waters and is on the move. Now, to close the current deficit -- we've already said on these platforms -- the only thing done during the AKP administration is to sell foreign currency transactions, investments or exports, not the assets Turkey won during the republic. Dear friends, I spoke here last year, while talking about the error of the sale of Turkey's land to a foreigner, according to state official figures, the amount of land sold to foreigners was 90 million square metres, according to the figures of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I gave them their dates, 20 million square meters of this is sold throughout the history of the republic, including mandatory land that should be sold to embassies, 70 million square metres sold during the AKP era. Now, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism responds to Mr. Erkan Akçay's question motion and says: "Our amount of land sold to the foreigner has found 137 million square meters." Then, when we say, "You are selling the country," you get angry, you sue. Here, you're selling the country, 137 million square meters... a very important part of it is farmland. You're trying to close the deal by selling agricultural land. What you're going to sell is limited, slowly coming to an end. After that, it's all about debt. But given the predictions of the next world economy that the United States will gradually reduce bond sales and that there will be a liquidity crisis in the market, we will see together how you are taking Turkey to a dangerous point in the coming period. Here's the second thing: we grew up 4.4 in the third quarter. Drumming, zurnaly, it was tried to explain how we grew up when there was a crisis in the world with the Prime Minister of the ruling party and the ministers in charge of the economy. Dear friends, look, the accepted source in the world, the Institute for International Management Development; according to his study, 70.1 percent of the growth created by Turkey in 2012 stems from internal consumption. So we looked at some numbers to see if that's true -- you can look at -- when you look at the figures of the Treasury Department, the provinces have tax figures, tax tables, taxes collected from the provinces. Dear friends, look, there's Mersin in the 6th place, Antalya in the 7th place, Hatay in the 9th place, Tekirdağ in the 10th row. In Turkey, our provinces pay more taxes than the sum of industrialized, rapidly developing provinces - more than the Konya, Kayseri, Gaziantep, and Eskişehir, and Denizli. What's so special about it, what do these overtaxed provinces have in common? They have ports. Because a great deal of this collection of taxes is taxed by international treatment. So his sublet is a 90-95 percent import value added tax. Let me give you just two examples: the tax collected from Hatay in 2012 comes from $26 billion, about 11 billion euros, about 40 percent of it comes from the value added tax in imports alone. Again, a total of 47 billion euros, about 35 per cent of that comes from the value added from imports, not from the value created in Turkey. That's how the economy develops warped. You explain how the economy flies here from morning to night, by tweezing some numbers, but that's the truth. Capital in Turkey is no longer in the manufacturing industry; capital in Turkey is no longer in the production industry; it is entering inefficient areas, housing, imports, hospital investors and shopping centers. This way Turkey can't continue its economy. When I was President of the Adana Industrial Chamber in 2002-2005, we went to Greece a lot. Greece is just like us now, we are the spoiled child of Europe. We don't produce industry, we've come out of agriculture outside olives and cotton. They said -- and the Greeks didn't work there, they thought they'd take the economy with money from Europe. At this point, young Greeks inject AIDS virus into their veins to get 600 euros of disease money so they can get AIDS in their veins so they can get 600 euros. I hope Turkey doesn't come to those days, it won't, but we all need to see the danger in the course of things. Now, to reverse this painting, you have to do two things. One, we've been saying for many, many years, that by doing structural reforms, we're going to increase the competitiveness of Turkish industry and increase exports instead of imports. Dear friends, second, the right incentive policies. Turkey has never learned its incentive policy, and the AKP has not learned the power and has failed to implement it. Before the AKP's power... why are there actually wrong practices in incentives? Because, in incentives... look, there's a lot of ministry incentives. Incentive Application is in the Ministry of Economics; Development Agencys are encouraging; Ministry of Development; Ministry of Industry, COSGEB is encouraging; TEBITAK is encouraging; Technology Initiative Support is encouraging. They can't collect all this and come up with the right incentive policy. Fifteen years ago, Propulsion Law 4325 was wrong, a collective incentive to the primary areas of development. The 5084 issued during AKP rule was the worst, most meaningless, most resource waste in the history of the republic. We've tried so hard not to let this out. Mr. CaIan knows, I was punished for that, and he was punished for that, but despite that, the law came out.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0308par0050	Your punishment isn't over yet!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0309par0051	He was a father, he was a father!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0306par0052	Now, even though the new incentive package has decreased its losses, unfortunately, it's not true again, it's wrong again, it's an unfairly competitive policy in the provinces, in very close areas. 25 miles [50 km] between Adana and Osmaniye, but between the two, in the 2nd district of Adana, Osmaniye is taking advantage of the encouragement of Mardinin, Şırnak, Hakkari, and the 6th district if you do it in the Organised Industry District. A sane investor doesn't get up and go there, or there's 20 kilometers between two organised industrial zones between Izmir and Manisa, four organised industrial areas, four organised industrial areas with different degrees of incentives. Now, what we've been talking about for years has to be passed on to a project-based incentive system.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0310par0053	Adana's eyes are not satisfied!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0306par0054	There's a development agency thing going on. I'm going to run out of life to get the right development agency law. Unfortunately, he's all wrong; he's been born dead, mistakes are being made.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0311par0055	You can't live with that!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0306par0056	It seems that way, but the AKP's life will end, and then we'll follow the right policies, hopefully. The incentives from the development agency are really a comedy right now, so if I were to tell you all about it here, you'd really laugh. I can give you a few examples: they donate grants to different things that come in front of you without knowing what you're doing, not to investment spaces, not to export spaces, but to areas that are going to apply imports. Look, the authority who made the tender in the tender law can't give it to their first-degree next of kin, the medical, this one or that one. The first is the governorships, municipalities, rooms, which form the governing body of the development agency, which is eating the real cream in development agencies. Adana Municipality has received grants for four Seasons of Swimming. When they swim for four seasons, we're going to reverse this economic picture that we just talked about, we're going to win currency, or we're going to transfer imports! Adana Metropolitan Municipality has supported the colors of Adana. The Adana Industrial Room will build a training hall, supported by the development agency. Mersin County Environment and Forestry Directorate received grants for the rescue of turtles in the Eastern Mediterranean region of the governorship. When we save the turtles, we fix the economy! Let the turtles live, but let other institutions keep them alive. In addition, projects such as increased capacity in the private sector, increased competitiveness, are given grants. Dear friends, then, if you're going to give money to these companies, don't create unfair competition with my tax dollars. If the company is going to buy machines to boost competitiveness, don't sell the People's Bank like fathers, let it get a loan from the People's Bank. Let the development agencies' support go to more efficient areas.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0312par0060	They're buying TV, TV.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0306par0061	So far, $1.6 billion has been spent on development agencies, 499 million in the 2014 budget. I will not say yes to this budget, nor will I allow you to transfer this fund to these inefficient areas, which is created by me and the poor people's taxes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0313par0064	Thank you. The third speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Salon Köse, Corum MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0314par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Fadime Ayvallıtaş, the mother of Mehmet Ayvaltaş, who died during the travel events, died yesterday and was buried today. We ask God to have mercy on us, that he may rest in the light. My dear friends, I will report my views on the Turkish Statistical Foundation's budget in 2014. We believe that the most reliable source in our country's digital and statistical database wealth and history should be TİK. So, is TÜİK like this, is it the most reliable source, is it transparent? I'm afraid not. FOR many years, the prostitute's witness has been reduced to a slave. He's playing with the poll results, he's playing with the research results, he's correcting them, and we've made mistakes, we're correcting our mistakes. In the past, he has made many scandals by explaining the data ahead of time, texting them earlier. Now, it's been discussed recently in budget talks. In 2013, there was a study conducted by TÜİK (TİK). The title of the study is ▪ Identifying Price Indexes. • Now, as part of this survey study, the houses are knocking on the door, the TİK officials have official IDs on their collars, and they say: "We've come to you with examples. We've come to this house, we've chosen the house for this survey, and we're TİK officers. You have to answer the polls, you're on duty. What happens if they don't? You know, in 2008, the Constitutional Court has not cancelled the Constitutional Court's decision, and if not, you will face a fine of $925. So, what did TÜİK ask for in this survey to determine the consumer price index? Look what he's asked, look at the questions, my dear friends, it's a scandal. ▪ What religion do you belong to?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0315par0072	Constitutional crime.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0314par0073	What's it to you, brother? You're investigating the consumer price index.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0316par0074	That's not true.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0314par0075	Right, right, you'll see. ▪ What sect do you feel you belong to? How often do you perform the prayers below? I don't know if it's a sin to lie a little bit, but if it's taxed on lying, I guess the Council of Ministers' salary would never get rid of the foreclosure, so it's a lie tax. (H.P.) None of them would be left if they were lying to death.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0317par0077	Let's tell the Finance Minister to bring a tax on that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0318par0078	Did the Minister give you instructions?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0314par0079	Is it a sin to drink too much to be drunk? Are you Alevi or Sunni or something like that? I don't know if an angel enters the house or not, but for 12 years you've been walking around the village without a dog, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0319par0081	We've made a written statement about TÜİK.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0314par0082	My dear friends, the poll continues, says: "When you vote, do you care if the candidate is religious? Should men and women sit in the same company, or should they sit separately? I don't know why it's so important to TÜİK. Is secularism a guarantee of freedom? The answer is a guarantee. If it had not been for secularism, people would not have cut off one another from Afghanistan to Morocco, saying, 'God is great!' and those who died would not have received the mercy of Hakk. In that sense, secularism is truly the guarantee of the freedom of religion. My dear friends, the representatives of the AKP have come here, the government spokesmen have come, saying: "We have made a silent revolution, we have written an epic, you are jealous. Of course, I don't know how foreigners appreciate us. So if strangers don't appreciate the inside of the house and they appreciate it, look for a crime on your part. They're seeing something loose. So, what happened when they wrote so epic? Citizens' debt to banks, credits, consumer credits and credit card debts are $322 billion. So it's gone up 49 times by 2002. And our citizen's income has increased? We're on it. Where do we look? We'll look at minimum wage. The minimum wage, which was $225 in 2002 -- 225 liras in that day -- was 803 liras in 2013, or even less than 4 floors in 2013. Forty-nine times more debt. So they're living in debt in a dream world, a citizen. How many citizens have not paid the banks in 2012? 3 million; 2 million 802 thousand. So our citizens can't pay their debts, these loans. The number of executive files: The Prime Minister threw a cash register in front of the late Bkent Ecevit. They organized walks, when the crisis was the busiest. At that time, the number of executive files was 10 million, 26 grand. So, what's 2010? Over 20 million. In 2011, more than 20 million again. In 2012, unfortunately, he exceeded 21 million. Foreign debt: Foreign debt dropped from 130 billion US dollars in 2002 to $326.3 billion in 2013. That's not what I'm saying, my friends told me. The unemployment has increased -- our Muslim friend just told me -- poverty has increased. TÜİK, the wine's witness changed the data of the poverty survey, changed the method of computing after 2009. The poet's witness is the corrupter. The number of prisoners -- the prison commission member Veli Ağbaba told me yesterday -- rose from 57,000 to 145 thousand. Well, my friends, this power has written another epic. They'll go down in history. There is a study by the Prime Ministerial Committee for Human Rights in 2010 -- the terms are from 2010. In 2002, the number of prostitutes in Turkey was 25,000. In 2010, that number was over 100,000. 40,000 women were waiting outside the brothels to get a headshot. 40,000 women. These are official data. These are the numbers the government pronounces. So, why are there so many people in the prostitution industry in your eleven-year-old power increased astronomically? Why is it up? What are the economic and moral reasons for this? Have you looked into any of this? Since 2002, I've just told you, the country's debt amount, unemployment, unpaid checks and bonds totals, current deficits, the increase in indicators that the economy is going negative, and so has the prostitution industry. As the economy breaks down, don't turn the numbers upside down. Unfortunately, as the economy deteriorated, so did the number of prostitutes. You're a religious and conservative party. Shouldn't you be thinking about this terrifying painting? The spread of prostitution is simultaneous, with the collapse of the economy during the fall of the Ottomans. Look, I'm telling you, there's a study by the history researcher Cezmi Patriot, about the Turkish woman who was made a prostitute when the Ottomans collapsed. He says that Jazmi Hodja: for the first time in 1915, the women of life were given a work title. The vice squad was founded in those years. The VD hospital opened in those years. There's a period of 1919-22, when the government went into disintegration and occupation. During this period, during the years of the draft, prostitution has reached unprecedented levels in Istanbul. They're over 5,000. Drawing pink paintings in the economy, flipping numbers, unfortunately, is not enough to conceal the peak of the growing prostitution industry during the AKP period. My dear friends, I'd like to conclude my speech with a final TIC investigation. According to the 2010 study of life satisfaction, 85 percent of our people in Turkey expressed themselves happily. I just told you, there's no tax on lying, and the liar doesn't die. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0320par0096	Thank you. The fourth speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party is Muharrem Ilk, Erzincan MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0321par0099	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been prevented by the government and the Supreme Court to determine whether or not the taxes paid by my citizens are being spent in accordance with the way they've been paid by my nation's budget. I start by protesting this situation. You laugh when we all read it. Today, one of the Court's former presidents, Hasan, gave an interview with the daily Prime Zaman, saying: lately -- I have to say this with regret -- I fear the shadow of political power has fallen deep upon the Court. The Court may have hesitated to take the evidence of control into the reports, which the political authority predicted might be uncomfortable. The Court's president explained that. Of course, they said we didn't know where the 2012 budget was particularly spent, our friends said the financial reports hadn't come in, the paintings hadn't been seen. In fact, Mr. Bulent Arinc agreed to this, and he said that the court reports that came in were pieces of paper. So let's say that this budget is patched, torn, incomplete, tricky, and most importantly, because the AKP is afraid, because it doesn't trust itself, because it doesn't. Of course, if meat smells like meat, it's salted. But what if it smells like salt? Which, unfortunately, means it stinks. You come in here trying to defend yourself all the time. If you're so open, since it's so true, you have no tricks, so why don't you send the court reports? If you had sent it, none of us - we wouldn't have worked here to prevent it so much, and we wouldn't have done anything else.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0322par0100	Reports have arrived.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0321par0101	Yes, Mr. President, you're right. Then, as if we're not a state of law, as if there were no Constitution, no separation of powers, in our country, as if Turkey was a tribe ruled in Africa, we see it in every institution. By the second September 12th, which you boasted so much, the Court has already been destroyed, and the Court has been destroyed, or rather, it will be destroyed, and it will not be complete, it will be new. It's obvious what you've already done to the Supreme Court. The Constitutional Court has also disappeared, but sometimes he tries to make such a weak sound. Here's the last thing he showed me about releasing arrested lawmakers. It's like you're trying to offer us a gift, you expect us to thank you. Four years, two hundred and seventy days in prison -- you respected the national will -- and you want to thank us for leaving the person you've been holding with false documents and findings, our congressman. There's no such thing. You say we didn't bring out the documents, you say we didn't make the trial, your last confessions, your last confessions against us, you say he won't listen to us, but when it suits you, you release Hakan Fidan. If you'd been sincere, those MPs would've been released, and so would all the people you arrested unjustly, with a five-minute operation in one night, but unfortunately, you didn't do any of that. Now you're asking us to thank you. I'm sorry. You need to apologize because you've kept so many innocent people and so many people inside against national will, so you're guilty. No matter what you say, you can't deal with judgment, the judge won't listen to you, it's none of our business. You say you're in power here. And let me tell you, the Prime Minister was saying, Mr. Prime Minister: I make the agenda. But lately it hasn't been on the agenda. He brought up the mosque thing, he didn't. A lady with a turban said that our sister was attacked, she didn't, there were images. When the headscarf came to the House, you said we'd have a huge reaction, and you thought it didn't. You tried to do something in the classrooms, but you backed down, so it didn't work out. Then Mustafa Balbay was released, and I don't think it was because of you, but he was going to keep it, so he didn't. Today, Mr. Prime Minister said incriminating things in Antalya again, but three years ago, he was his own brother, and he's not holding it. So, unfortunately, you've lost your trust. When the entity changed its side, it became clear how you could not be trusted, how you could destroy each other for good. Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, unfortunately, was killed by someone and was not caught yet. His mother died yesterday and was buried today. Let me tell you this: if you believe in the afterlife, all of these dead souls will be on your side. This woman's death may have been uncomfortable, but the boy couldn't bear his pain. Those with a conscience will bring it up. You find the people who dug up that killer in the hole, but how can you not find the person who ran him over? We're amazed. Now, let's come to the GAP. In fact, there is no need to say anything about the GAP. This picture, my ministers, shows what GAPP is. GAP, here are pictures of their deaths every summer when dozens, hundreds of people go there to work as workers. This is the truth of the Gap.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0323par0106	30 lira a day, how much?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0321par0107	They work for 25 to 30 lira a day. Of course, you're talking about what you've done in the GAP, but what you've normally done in the last decade, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been scattering, what you've been privatizing -- you've been privatizing places like SECA, TEKEL, TELEKOM -- if you'd spent two or three years privatising places like this, there wouldn't have been any problems in the GAP, and people in Gap would not have died on the road like this. If you had given some of the help you gave al-Qaeda to those children who lived in the Gap, they would have read it, and they would not have stayed in the corner of the tents. Of course, the GAP has had the potential to water 1,82,000 hectares in the area where it's run, but unfortunately right now, you've only been able to water 178,818 hectares in ten years. So, that means, if we calculate, that's what it's been in ten years, a hundred years from now, the GAP will be over when we're at your speed. Of course, as in all areas, regional injustices are being done, and we see these injustices. We've done so many projects on television or with what you're telling us. It's not what you're saying. We live there, and I'm Erzincan, and we see how projects are being done there, and we see how discrimination is being done. You've spent 27 billion dollars on the GAP, and you've spent 10 billion on the unemployment fund, spent it, and you've put your hand in the pocket of the poor man again. Of course, you also have SODES projects in the GAP. And the money you spend on these projects is 674 million in five years, but the number of projects is 5.792. You're always talking about this number because you like to play with numbers, and it seems like a lot, but when we look at projects that have been done, we already see that there's nothing going on; how you opened 1,300 facilities in Diyarbakır, painted walls, changed doors, and built the same facilities. Especially, of course, because you import live animals and meat, you've finished animalism, all of this. Of course, most importantly, agricultural municipal administrations and State Water Affairs are not, unfortunately, consciously employed, where friends can't do projects. Where you've given the irrigation, the base water has risen, the salting rate has increased, and the crops are not being harvested. TEMA (TEMA) has a good saying about this, saying: "At this rate, there will be no such thing as GAP. " And I'll tell you this: if you want to get up... it's coming to everyone's e-mails, and they're saying that the number of imams that were taken into public in 2013 is 12,000, and the number of cops that were taken into public in 2013 is 14,000, 2002-2012, agriculture, food, water products engineers, the number of vets, 10,000, that's what you're showing. If you want to do a scientific study, if you really want to improve agriculture, if you want to develop the GAP, you'll probably get fellow engineers, do scientific studies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0324par0117	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the fifth speaker is Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0325par0120	What's up, a trip?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0121	Mr. President, dear friends, on the 2014 budget, I have made a commitment to the East Anatolia Development Administration. I salute you all. Dear friends, my ministers, so far, East Anatolia has been moving much faster before the 11-year-old AKP government, and today, unfortunately, it has actually stopped. Now, two of our ministers are my countrymen, one Batman, one Muşli.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0327par0124	Bingöllu, Bingöllu...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0125	And I was really happy, and I loved them, too, but they couldn't stop the migration. The migration did not stop, and when the migration did not stop, there was a terrible destruction in the region. Now, there's a poem about immigration, I'm going to read it. We have a people's bard, Mürsel Sinan, who says: If I had a job with Fabrika, If I had my bread, my valuation, If I had a head in Ankara, Would I have migrated from my village? Yes, if Ankara were our head, it wouldn't have migrated east and southeast. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And on the second verse it says: ▪ My teacher has come to exile, My doctor's off his meds, Our patient died in the sleigh, Would I have migrated from my village? Yeah, our patients are dying in the sleigh right now. Bitlis called today, the roads are blocked. So there's no proper roadwork. Mr. Secretary, that's what I'm saying. And on his third continent, he says: The Constitution in Ankara, There is no sorrow in our hearts, If the gentlemen wouldn't lie down, Would I have migrated from my village? Yes, the men in Ankara have fallen down, the people have migrated, the poverty is on its way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, for the development of the region, there must be no exile once in a while. The smart, talented, talented people have to go, the talented teachers have to go. Teachers need housing, doctors need housing. The governors need to stay there for at least five years, the trustees need to stay at least five years. They say it's two years, he's not doing a proper program, he's going down before the area gets up. Dear friends, officers who work here in the area, all civil servants must be paid a different fee than those who work in the west, Minister. Why? Now, snow, winter, apocalypse. The man burns five tons of coal, and the west one burns or burns 500 kilos. He's costing the world. The area is already under heavy winter conditions. Now, if you don't make a difference to him, he's not standing there, he's taking a leave of absence; my kid's the last one in college, the college kid's always the first one. There's injustice here, and the Ministry of Development will organize this injustice. That's why officers who go there shouldn't be exiles. Let the wise, resourceful people go and pay them a different fee than the people in the west, 25 to 30 percent. If the price is paid, then it's an incentive. It's not the other way around. Dear friends, there's no electricity anywhere in East Anatolia right now. I have friends who just called me.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0328par0149	In Silifke, and in Mersin, it is cut.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0150	Everywhere, in Mersin.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0329par0151	It is cut in the house, it is cut in the house, it is cut in the house, and it is cut in the house.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0152	He's also cut off. It's all over the place. Oh, for God's sake, where are these lights going? How's that? What's that like? Please, I'm asking you. And it's not enough to cut the power, they're putting on the citizen, and they don't give him time. Yeah, can that happen? Let's just say a whole village is draining its water with electricity, and because it doesn't pay for it, an entire village is dehydrated for 15 days and without electricity. For God's sake, let's give it a break. These people are our people. Dear friends, we're running out of time. The airport was built with more or less everything for the development of the region, but not Ardahan and Artvin. A common airport for Ardahan and Artvin will benefit both the districts of Ardahan (Ardahan) and the districts of Erzurum (Ardahan) and most importantly the Ahıska region of Georgia. Now, what did this AKP government do? They built an airport in the Batum of Georgia. Okay, let's do it, I'm not against it, my grandma's from Batum, but why wasn't Ardahan made? Let it be done to Ardahan. The airport is essential for the development of the region, people need transportation, they need to come and go. Now, there's also the Sudden Tunnel -- the Sakarya tunnel -- very important. It's now 2,500 altitudes, so snow, type, people can't go. This tunnel has to be built absolutely. On the other hand, we can't cross Mount Ilgaz, we can't go to Posof, we can't go to Posof County. If we had a patient, he'd really die in the sleds. So we need to make sure that Posof is built a tunnel, and we need to speed it up, I beg you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0330par0158	It's so easy with machines this time of year.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0159	Now, dear friends, do you know what this government has done? Since we're running out of time, I'm running out of time. He hired the government or the Minister of Agriculture, sold animals to people for $6-7 billion, himself. He said two years of non-payment, five years of zero interest. People bought it for $6-7 billion, and you know what the government did, Minister of Agriculture? He's so smart! Imported meat, imported animals. When he brought her in, the animal he sold for 7,000 liras went down to 2.5 million, down to 3 million. Is that right, brother? Look how beautiful it is. This, believe me, has killed our farmer horribly, which means this Edirne, the one in Antalya, the one in Adana, and the one in Ardahan. The farmer of the Black Sea, all over Asia Minor, was devastated, damaged. And they said two years without paying, and a year later they began collecting. Latif Shahsuvar, my friend called, and a year later they asked me for the money, and they took it. I'm the same friend right now, because I said his name, they sold my pet to me for $7,000, they brought me imported animals, they sunk me. I'll return it to them for $4,000. Let them have it for $4,000. He said. Well, no space, no givers. Now, milk isn't worth money, bait is expensive, diesel is expensive. Dear friends, here's what I'm going to show you...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0331par0161	Hay, hay.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0162	It's not hay.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0332par0163	Let's give it to the Minister of Economy to sell it to Somalia to increase exports.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0164	Now, you know what this is? This is diesel, this is a liter of diesel.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0333par0165	Mr. President, you know about the combustible explosive.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0166	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to do the account book like this in elementary school. A liter of milk isn't enough to buy a liter of diesel.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0334par0167	How much is enough?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0168	Now, wait a minute. Two liters isn't enough, Haydar.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0335par0170	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0171	Three liters isn't enough.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0336par0172	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0173	Four liters of milk isn't enough.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0337par0174	Holy shit!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0175	Five liters of milk isn't enough.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0338par0176	You're a sunk farmer!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0177	Ah, brother, six liters of milk.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0339par0178	Oh, poor farmer!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0179	Dear friends, let's make an account book, for God's sake, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The peasant here will give him six liters of milk so he can get a liter of diesel. Oh, for God's sake. How will this region rise, how will the farmer rise, how will the peasant rise, my friends? (HIP and MHP in rows) Tell me about it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0340par0180	And the cows that these sell for $7,000 don't give them anymore.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0181	I, now, went to the village of Akmeshah, in the land of Haydar Beyin, where they shut down the cattle market. They said, "Our milk is not good, we are miserable." Friends, for God's sake, my ministers -- we don't have time -- so find a cure for this; build dairy factories, build meat combinators, build feed factories, build fertilizer factories, sir. Look, I'll tell you something: there are phosphate factories in Mardin for fertilizer, our underground resources are very rich, there are gold in Hakkari, there are gold in Erzincan Ilic, there are gold in Ağrı, there are gold in Kars. There are gold in Kars. There are gold in the ground, there are rich, poor friends in the ground. Is there such a government?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0341par0185	No!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0326par0186	Yeah, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll give the gas and milk to the ministers. Daily milk...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0342par0188	Show's over, show's over.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0341par0189	Can we help you?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0343par0190	Mr. Öğüt, please, this is the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the sixth speaker is Doğan Şafak, Nüğde MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0344par0193	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget for the President of the International Development Administration of the Iconian Plain Project in the 2014 budget. In 1907, they began their work and were completed in 1913. This big project was one of the world's leading projects at the time. Projects that began to be implemented by State Waterworks, the first official irrigation project in our country, which is the largest irrigation investment since the GAP, were called "Connya plain projects." Since a region, especially a water-deprived region, would be difficult to develop with agriculture alone, co-ordinating existing projects due to different institutions running them, a structure was needed to coordinate and monitor project practices in the region and conduct the task of monitoring and evaluation. For this purpose, KOP was established as head of the Regional Development Administration in 2011. The establishment of the KOP Administration aims to create a comprehensive, integrated and multi- sector regional development project, including agriculture and irrigation, including other sectors. KOP is covered in the provinces of Konya, Aksaray, Karaman, Niğde. In the history of the KOP project, it has begun to become the world's leading projects. During the 60th century, government officials said that the total cost of this project was $1 billion, saying that 9.5 per cent would come as an investment in Niğde, giving other cities some rates. No serious investment has arrived in Niğde and other cities within the KOP. Dear lawmakers, the water reserves of the Plain of Iconia, Turkey's agricultural warehouse, are rapidly running out. The head of the KOP Regional Development Administration, in his own statement to the press, referred to the king as naked. The main part of KOP and the districts are dry agriculture, producing and selling certified wheat and barley. One of our farmer's biggest problems is that his income is much less than that of those who farm water. Other farmers' lives have been paralyzed by their electricity debts. The price of energy used in agriculture has exceeded the cost of endurance during this period of government. 80% of 140,000 agricultural irrigation subscribers owe money to MEDAS and energy companies. The total debt, along with interest, is powered down by over 2.5 billion liras, 40 per cent of its electricity. 75% of Turkey's crops cover grain products, which are wheat, barley, rye, oatmeal. These products aren't worth anything. Also, beets, cabbages, wheat, sunflowers, produced heavily in the KOP region, no longer bring income to the villagers. In this region, it is also necessary to coordinate with the relevant authorities on changing product tissue. During this period of government, Turkey has given up on farming for up to 2.5 million hectares, the face measurement of Ankara, Turkey's second-largest province in terms of facial measurement. The total area of the country's eight provinces is 20,000 square kilometers, the size of the agricultural field left empty due to false policies. In 2002, the farmer who provided for agriculture was 7,400,000, while as of 2012, about 5 million, 2 million manufacturers withdrew from production. Since we're short on time here, I'd like to make a brief point. The total need for water for the thermal plant announced in Karapınar is said to be more than 2 billion tons. In contrast, there is no more than 1.5 billion tons of water in the Conium Basin. While investing in the KOP region, all these contradictions should be considered as well. According to the estimates of State Waterworks, the Blue Tunnel Project is said to be able to produce more watery farms that cover 220,000 hectares in the Plain of Iconia. According to this account, even after the project, there will be 1.1 million hectares of watery agriculture on the plain. The remaining majority will continue to produce dry agriculture, which is 1.9 million hectares. The Blue Tunnel is not a project to feed the Plains of Conium. While planning the region's agricultural future, we must not ignore that fact. For ten years, KOP covers the southern wetlands of the Plains of Iconium. However, it would be more appropriate for the fields of Konya-Ankara to cover the direction of Iconia-Axsaray and Iconia-Ereğli, Iconia-Niğde. When it's called the Blue Tunnel, the general perception is that the plain will meet all the need for water. Officials at the head of the institution warn that the plain will run out of underground water in the region within 30 years if no measures are taken. However, State Water Affairs is not taking any precautions on the matter. In addition, the president of the KOP finds it very optimistic that State Water Affairs is watering 220,000 cubic metres of the Blue Tunnel. In the event of this prediction, it reminds us that watery agriculture in the region will not exceed 33 per cent. In contrast to this painting, he admits that the increase in the direction of watery agriculture on the plain is much higher in value than in the rise of agricultural products that require too much water, and that the region's biggest contradiction is ironic. For this, the most important project to do on the Konya and its environment is not to increase the amount of water in the region with work like the Blue Tunnel, but to implement it by preparing a comprehensive rural development programme. Precious lawmakers said on 27 December 2012, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Mr. Veysel Eroglu's response to the question proposed, stating that he had prepared a Conconium Action Plan for watering the Plains of Iconium, which calculated the Konya Plain's underground water reserves and thus determined waterable areas. He also said that no measures have been taken, according to the results from subterranean water levels measured in the most densely concentrated cone-infested wells. Despite our knowledge of KOP's many problems, I state the lack of the budget, underline the revision of the program, salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0345par0214	Thank you. Last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0346par0217	Mr. President, lawmakers, we're building a new budget, a budget with no people in it, a budget without accountability for the public. Our people are going to pay for the system's structural problems again. Our people will pay the price for the ambitions of great capital by becoming even poorer. The ordeal of January 24th is still not over. Economic decisions taken on January 24, 1980, and the monopoly capital wants to capture the monopoly capital that is integrated with the state. Economic decisions are being made to strengthen state opportunities, monopoly capital. There is strong social opposition in the country. These decisions are impossible to live through that day's Parliament, they have left and right conflicts, and our young people are losing their lives. On September 12, 1980, there was a military fascist coup with the support of imperialism. Right-left conflicts and deaths are coming to an end. I'm thinking, if these measures were taken ahead of time, our young people would be alive today, were these conflicts and deaths a legitimate cover of the coup? When September 12th was the coup d'état of a military fascist, a group was protected for when the time, place, and conjuncturing was appropriate. The price of bases has been low in agriculture, labour prices are low, salaries, civil servants' salaries are low, and a significant capital buildup has been provided with heavy tax loads. Unfortunately, uncouth investors couldn't bring this capital into the economy. In the early 90s, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the bipolar world became monopolar, and the one polarized capitalist imperial system revealed its new ideology. They began to use change and freedoms as an ideological argument, such as new world order, globalization, or globalization. Indeed, freedoms for globalisation, free access of capital everywhere, no obstacles, customs and borders were lifted, and in return, there was no organization of labor. I want it to be known that you can't win peace, democracy and freedom by cooperating with imperialism. There's a trend of change all over the world. In fact, the change was surrendering to global capital, using the country's underground and above-ground resources to use human labor. When the coup d'état was launched on September 12th, there was an opportunity for those who thought that the fit for the location and time of the conjunctural should be brought to power at their convenience. There was a new election in 2002, the pre-election DSP-MHP coalition was somehow destroyed, a new power came to our country in the new elections. After a few years of timidity, taking on capital, taking on its trust, in 2005-2006, the infrastructure of the powers, the most backward, the most showen and the most imperial elements that have the merger of financial capital, the bank capital, and industrial capital began to develop. It's called fascism. This is modern - day fascism. Classic German fascism is based on racism, and today it's based on faith. I'd like to give you an example. In large cities, under-strength workshops, under unhealthy conditions, low wages, uninsured and socially unsecured, our young daughter's head has become a struggle for freedom for the Prime Minister, but the same young girl's economic and democratic demands have been ignored, Mr. Prime Minister. Here, the task of the headscarf is to cover up the exploitation. In our 90-year history of the republic, the AKP period was the maximum supply of capital. In 2002, the number of quadrillionaires rose to 44, while 63 per cent of the population became poor financially. The 17th largest economy in the world is what we call our country's 77th position in the world in terms of its people's living standards, showing how justified our criticism is. Global forces and domestic collaborators are very pleased with AKP's economic policy and budget. In fact, the AKP is a political representative of the collaborative, monopoly capital that is truly doing its job in this sense. Millions of people in our country know the difference between advanced democracy and fascism. When it comes to the demands of opposition and opponents who consider their own demands as a democracy, it is rash to talk about real advanced democracy in a country without democracy. To talk about advanced democracy in a country, production forces need to develop. You can't talk about advanced democracy in that country if the forces holding production relations are putting a barrier before the production forces. In business accidents, it is not possible to talk about advanced democracy in a country that has a European 1st, third world, and has union rights. Fascism and coups are not considered independent of capital and its political organisations. We know that the East Black Sea Project DOCAP (DOCAP) is a project aimed at unraveling the inequality between the provinces of the region and revealing the existing potential. Giresun is a socioeconomically least developed province in the region. The destinations of tour routes are the least useful when considering the number of tours, the number of accommodation, the average duration of residence, the proportions of fullness. Giresun has no historical and cultural values in inventory, no Citadel of the Citadel of the Citadel of Tirepoli, licese Church, Giresun Olivey District, Giresun Island, Children's Library and Aksu Festival. At natural values, Giresun Island and the four sections were not included in the inventory. Mount Fog is represented as the Tripoli plateau. However, Mt. Sis is a common use area of Tripoli and Giresun, and is within the borders of the village of Bayyet, Giresun. The island's registration status is miswritten and is the 2nd degree archaeological site of Giresun Island. The plan is to visit the Army, where Giresun, who owns a great port, is to make its way to the port, which is really unfathomable. The change of tourism structure in the DOKAP region is seen as a lack of Giresun province. As I finish my words, I wish you all the best, and good evening.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0347par0233	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word is for Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised the opinion of the National Party of Action on the budget of the Ministry of Economics in 2014. I hereby salute the grand jury. Today, I've been following the talks, and in the talks, the technical information they provide of friends from the ruling party's provinces, and the friends from the opposition, what do they do with the theoretical and practical information, they deliver it here, and so do the whole nation. Of course, that's natural when budgets are discussed. Everyone's going to ask what's in the budget, what's in the area, what's supposed to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen. The cities that went to good service will also be told by our MPs to the citizens. We made them do it. They didn't happen to be in my knowledge. Of course, there's one thing that's overlooked: traditionally, in the budgets, it's that the ruling and opposition parties also express their views on the budgets that, in fact, people will follow what happened in the country that year. I'll talk to the Ministry of Economics, I'll talk to them. In fact, I worked twenty years in one of the two ministries that are now being discussed, and in another, I served as assistant secretary to the undersecretary, and even as secretary general at the IGEME. Now, this is the Economy Ministry budget, the 2014 draft. Very good, Minister. I'd like to take that into consideration that your witness actually studied it, because it comes fast, it goes fast. When I started planning, I was interested in the budget, and I'm still interested in the budget, but it's the Treasury that's deceiving you, and it's the friends who are doing it here that are causing trouble. Look, there's no page number, but in accordance with the schedule of our Minister Zafer Cavalan, we're going to conduct bilateral and multi-investor meetings with foreign capital companies. Is this your property? If there was a warrant, who would go here? Someone else has to go, the minister has to change. That's not a name. The Treasury Department cheats you, cheats you, doesn't follow you. Now, it's important to show if the job is taken seriously. You're curious, I'll tell you, Mr. Secretary, maybe you jumped. It says, "Mr. Minister Zafer Çağlan is scheduled to conduct bilateral and multi-investor talks with foreign capital firms. Let's interpret: You have left the ministry, no law shall be passed for anyone else." This IRS is tricking you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0349par0243	No, you know it's not.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0244	I know, but it's the law's way out of here, so we're talking about law, law. Now, if there is such a thing, this government... no, we're learning from the press that you're going to quit politics, but this declares you a general, Pasha. So he doesn't have a retirement without a... That's not gonna happen. It says here the export performance, there's export performance here, but there's no import performance when we look at it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0350par0246	It's not good, that's why.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0247	Now, I've said this for this: it can be looked at in a very detailed way, and it can be looked at very detailed figures about the budget. Here, in the functional design, how much resources you've saved on imports, how much resources you've saved on exports, how much resources you've saved on the deals, these don't show up. Neither the government nor the Ministry of Finance has any intention of bringing the Court's reports here on account. They brought that law, the Law of the Court, and they brought it out here, and we helped. Now, that's the way it is. Your export target in 2023 is $500 billion. Isn't that right, Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0351par0249	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0250	The import is $625 billion. Am I wrong? No.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0351par0251	You're not wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0252	But there's going to be 84 million people, and when you look at it, your calculation, it's not going to cost me imports, and it's not going to cost me exports. Because imports go, but exports don't. Because you said, at this rate, we can't possibly do it. It's impossible for you to take the country at the speed of 12 percent exports, until 2023, at this time, in the square. They call it moderate growth, moderate growth. What's the matter? It's mild. Now, export...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0352par0254	We got it from 36.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0255	Who said 36?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0352par0256	We got it from 36.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0257	Do you know these things?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0352par0258	Yeah, I know.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0259	Do you know a lot?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0353par0260	Is there a job he doesn't know about? He's involved in everything.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0352par0261	In your day, it was 36.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0262	Tell me, how much will it cost to increase imports by 2023?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0352par0263	It goes from 36 to 150, so it goes from 150 to 500.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0354par0264	Mr. Bronze, please, let's not interfere. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0265	Tell him I asked him. Do you know how to do that?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0354par0268	Mr. Ayhan, don't talk to each other, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0269	No, no, I'll tell you, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0354par0270	I know, I interfered, I know.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0271	Look, with your account, $350 billion will go up. How are you going to do that? How will you do it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0355par0272	Like in the past ten years.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0356par0273	Teacher, if your account were right, it would bring you to power, people. He's not, which means it's not true what you know.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0274	Yours is doing it, Paşa.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0357par0275	Mr. Albany, please...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0276	According to this decision, Mr. Secretary is going to be Pasha.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0358par0277	You tell people, Emin Abi, they don't understand, tell people.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0278	No, but they understand, and some of them know, and they don't make a sound.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0359par0279	Those who don't know are talking.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0360par0280	People are talking, people.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0281	Now, to reach the export level of $500 billion in 2023, as I said, you're going to grow 12 percent, aren't you? But the rate of increase is not at the target level, it's your rate of increase. You're making an effort to increase exports, market diversification and geographical position, but you're not getting any results; there's no significant improvement. On the other hand, your country has been unable to strengthen its position in the international economy, since it is not competitive in high-tech products and is not interested in the policies that promote competitiveness in high-tech products, so Turkey's position in the international sector has not changed. The share of high-tech products in our exports in 91 is 3%; 7 per cent in 2001 is around 4 per cent at the current stage. With this technology, our country is behind Malaysia, Brazil and Indonesia. There's only one Turkish company in the world for the first 50 brands in the clothing retail sector, one in a thousand. This firm has no Turkish quality support. How much did you spend? You couldn't make a brand out of it every 11 years? Among the 183 countries in the World Bank's easy-to-work classification, Turkey was ranked 84, 57 and 59, respectively in 2006, 2007, 2008, but the 71st in 2012. In each phase of investment, the YOİKK, which aims to address administrative obstacles facing national and international investors, and is trying to improve the investment climate, however, is the case. And you've made it permanent. Over $50 million of incentives are waiting somewhere in the prime minister's office to meet with its owners. It's called right and wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0361par0283	Says who?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0284	I don't know.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0361par0285	You're a congressman, would you believe that?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0286	Say no, say no, say no, Mr. Secretary. Say you don't
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0361par0287	How can you believe that?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0288	I'll tell you. Another reason our country's position in the international economy has been strengthened is because it is isolated from the world, Turkey is in an approach that only it has chosen, it has not interacted globally. Now you're going to say: "We're the most traveling governments, we're the most participants in international meetings." You're doing it in Turkey, but it's not global interaction. Consider, for example, at the STA. You've targeted 44 countries in the last two years with 17 targets and 27 priorities. As these countries are determined as targets and priority countries, you understand that they have trade potentials and that they are aimed at boosting trade. From this window, we need to develop an important trade and look at the status of free trade agreements, which are a means of global interaction. During the time of your government of only four countries in 44 countries, the STA was signed; Jordan, Egypt, and Egypt -- you have already broken down with Egypt -- Chile, South Korea. Now, it's possible to keep this going, but I want to say something. That's from the Diet Foundation's website before the Festival of Sacrifice. Look, it's $550 if you cut a victim in the country, right? $380 if you take a nap abroad. This is important to show what animalism has become in Turkey. The animal you sold for 7,000 liras is not sold for 4,000 liras, it is not sold for 3,000 liras, the interest has reached more than 100 per cent.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0362par0291	2.5, 2.5.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0292	It's nothing yet, Minister. It's nothing yet. In Kızılay - Emeç Boulevard of Çetin, they were covering it today -- not 380 liras, but 300 liras in the country, and four installments in the credit card. Think about what animalism has become from here. Another incident. Madam Secretary, you're angry with the president of the Central Bank. He's taken care of from here, Mr. Babacan. We said, "1.92, what happened?" Look, Ahmet Nazif says that he will donate the Zoroastrian Center to charity. Anything? He breaks his teeth in case he gets 1.92. You say something to the president of the Central Bank, and you don't tell the cabinet, and you don't ask the friend next to you? How many did you calculate for next year's courses? The currency you've calculated goes up over $10,000, and when you calculate it at 98 prices, it's 1.4 times the increase in national income, it's per person. There's no reason to fool people out of the air like that. Now, look, exports from over a million cities are over a million companies. These are my names at the time, when I was an assistant secretary -- the work I had those friends do, the first time I started. No new data available now, no new data coming in. You've removed the Processed Regime from the site. He can't track it, people. Let's take a look at that. Now, you're polling, and according to your survey, the first 500 companies to export the most, you're doing it with this. The country has over 50,000 export companies. Even this clearly shows that the structure of exports has not changed. If there was an active policy against KOBI, we would also see the exports of KOBI. Look, according to your survey, logistical costs are high, energy costs are high, exchange rate shortages continue, high imports of raw materials and intermediaries, continuing the need for financing, bureaucratic barriers continue. We've sorted out these problems in a nutshell. In logistics, problems continue, and even the most basic problems continue. The quotas applied by European countries in road crossings continue as they did ten years ago. Of course, it's not my sentences, it's the results of the findings from your work and explanations. This is the situation of medium and large-scale businesses, what should the SME do? Now, the current is increasing. Why? The economy you're running is broken, you've ruined savings. The savings rate of the private sector has dropped from 24 per cent to 9 per cent during your term. Your foreign policy is out of order. You encourage imports. Production based on exports and domestic demand is dependent on industrial imports. The production industry's share of domestic product is falling dramatically. Your energy policy is malfunctioning. I'm warning you from here. Under Article 26 of the Oil Law, the Ministry of Energy takes over the incentive, and skips you. In fact, that bill came under the decision of the Council of Ministers. You must have signed it, but you don't know it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0363par0300	Why wouldn't I know it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0301	But they put it there, you don't know. Aren't you responsible for the incentive?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0363par0302	Am I you or not?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0364par0303	Well, if you're more aware of that, then you have.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0304	Aren't you responsible for the incentive? You're in charge, you don't know, you signed it, you don't know that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0363par0305	You don't know, you don't know.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0348par0306	Look, you're putting the private sector into projects about city hospitals. There are perks for the allies there. If you encourage these projects, the manufacturing industry, you reduce imports, increase exports. In fact, we say that investing in health care technology should be encouraged. What do you do with that? You'll back me up. Now, the industry inventory was in the middle. Look, there are 1 trillion 136 billion exports during the AKP period, 1 trillion 806 billion imports. What's $667 billion? There is a deficit, equivalent to Turkey's nearly a year's income. You've had enough of this shame! Cari is clearly 350 billion. Now, there's about 250 billion dollars in foreign trade tax. Either you're open, but once you close the gap, it's open in the budget. Now, you're in this spiral. In the law, you bring TUSKON, you can't bringISIAD, you can't bring TUSIAD. Are you from TUSKON? Is this accretion? Which one are you following? You need to know if TUSKON is taking advantage of your most incentives in the ministry. Maybe they're too quick, they bring them in and give them away. It's possible to extend it and go. In 2009, you brought the encouragement into action. According to the new system, employment has increased most in the agricultural sector. Where's it increased? In the most advanced industrial provinces. The increase in these provinces is five times more than in the backward provinces, it's in the press. The increase in employment comes from agriculture, not industry. Now, employment growth is between 2004 and 2008 per cent, between 2008 and 12 per cent. Industrial employment growth 2004-2008 16.3; 2008-2012 13.7. Agriculture growth 2004-08 12 per cent; 2008-2012 21.55. 42.3 per cent in the first sector, between 2008 and 12 per cent, during your encouragement, during your ministry. The fourth term fell to 8.5 per cent. Now, when you look at these, investment incentive documents between 2007-2012 are rising by 30 years, the private sector investment average is increasing by 10 per cent, not real, but by current prices. You're rationing natural gas imports. Is there a problem? Is there a problem with the import? There's a problem here, too. Now, when you evaluate events, we see that the current deficit is extremely problematic for the country. It's wrong to just attach it to energy. Everyone's already started writing it down and drawing it. It's extremely important if you're following it. I know what you just signed. You said. See the 26th article of the Oil Law, where the encouragement came. The Ministry of Energy is organizing the incentive as a decision from the Council of Ministers. I asked: what is the current system? It is the decision of the Council of Ministers. I said, "What does that mean?" The answer I got from the minister is in the transcripts there, please look at them. You're really putting the country through a rough patch, and the incentives didn't work. Because you did not encourage Denizli, as the incentives did not work, the money went up in Denizli, and the money went up in Denizli. They've done an apet, they've got apart inflation, people have been humiliated there. According to police reports, Hüseyin Çelik Bey says that the Prime Minister has not failed to tell you, you have tried to disgrace Denizli. There's no way that's going to happen, and no matter what party the U.S. Congressmans belong to, they're not going to settle for it. What I'm trying to say, Mr. Secretary, is that the government wants to be serious about business. I give you all my regards, and I wish you the best of budgets.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit04spe0365par0313	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0365par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Emin Çınar, Kastamonu MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0366par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Economics for the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill, on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group, with respect to your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, our country is being dragged into a abyss because of the ill-advised administration of the AKP (AKP), which has been in power for 11 years. Our nation has faced serious problems in these 11 years. In this time period, our nation struggles with problems from economy to social life, education to health in many areas. Our farmer was devastated, left his field, closed his shop, our citizen was pushed into debt, and our nation was dragged into division. Under the bullshit of opening, the terrorist leader has been turned into a gentleman who has been consulted with reason, and for a thousand years, our beloved nation in this land has been asked to divide by 36 in every environment. AKP executives have gone further and tried to ignore the Turkish nation, which has thousands of years of glory and glory. While our citizens are becoming poor, these problems have been left to them. Nevertheless, the government has drawn pink paintings in every environment, telling tales of our country moving forward, enriching, increasing the welfare of our nation. Over the past 11 years, our country has dominated imports, monopoly rather than competition, debt rather than savings. Today, unfortunately, our tradesman is fighting for his life, and our citizen is trying to get away with it. The debt is up to the throat, almost out of debt, without farmers or tradesmen. The AKP, which has ruled our country for 11 years alone, has sold all of our country's valuable assets, making billions of dollars in revenue. What investments have been made with these revenues to produce, what new factories have been opened to solve unemployment, has the energy problem been resolved, or have new sources of energy been found? These coins have gone to consumption instead of producing, and millions of dollars have been wasted. Today, unfortunately, this is the economic picture of our country. After 2002, the Turkish economy entered a process of growth based on debt and consumption. During that time, our country's debt supply grew. In 2002, our country's external debt increased from 129 billion to 597 million dollars, to 367 billion 343 million dollars as of 2013. The Prime Minister never mentions the country's external debt, even though he stated that the debt to the IMF was closed in every environment. Not just foreign debt, but domestic debt has increased categorically in the meantime. The stockpile of domestic debt increased from 149 billion to 900 million dollars in 2002 to 418 billion euros in 2013. In 11 years, like our government, our nation is increasingly in debt. By the end of 2002, his household debt was $6 billion, 700 million, while in 2013, 372 billion went up to 100 million. In 2002, our citizens split 4.7 per cent of their earnings into debt payments, while today our nation is obliged to divide 55.2 per cent of what it earns to pay its debts. According to BDK data, the following amount was $3 billion in 2002 and reached 28 billion euros today. Our citizen is unfortunately unable to pay his debts. Let power say that our national income is up to 10,000 dollars, and our nation is getting poorer and poorer. The distribution of income between our citizens has become a serious chasm over the past 11 years. Today, 20 per cent of our society receives 46 per cent of the national income, while the bottom 20 per cent gets only 5.9 per cent of the national income. The government, which says our country is getting richer, probably means that our billionaire rich numbers are growing. In 2012, a $35 billionaire became a $44 billionaire in 2013. As our people become poor, our rich numbers are remarkable. In 2012, our country grew 2.2 percent, while the wealth of the rich increased by 23 percent. Our nation has become poor, while someone adds wealth to its wealth. Dear lawmakers, there is no home for nearly 30 million citizens living in our country. Again, these people are having problems warming up in their environment. 27 million of our people can't afford a new suit, 46.5 million of our citizens can't pay their payments, can't afford their basic needs at home due to loans to banks. Sadly, 65 million of our citizens are unable to take a week's vacation away from home with their family, and yet nearly 60 million of our people are unable to renovate their worn-out household goods. These are the harsh truths of our country. According to Turkish-Work figures, the hunger limit of a family of four is 1,065 euros and the poverty limit is 3,470 TL. According to these figures, all teachers who raise our children are paid for under the poverty line. Again, the situation of our valued officers working in other public institutions and institutions is even more dire. About 61.2 per cent of the 19 million families in our country are trying to live on an income of 1,200 euros per month. So most of our nation lives on the edge of hunger. Unfortunately, the sense of prosperity of power has led our nation to even greater challenges. In fact, the wealth and wealth that he promised power gave to his followers. The welfare and wealth of the citizen are set aside for another spring. Dear lawmakers, one of the basic economic elements of society is our tradesmen. In our country, 99 per cent of businesses are made up of tradesmen and artists. 77% of employment is provided by tradesmen, 36 per cent of the economy's added value. The strain of economic conditions, the continuing burden of debt, the multiplying of major shopping malls, has been the reason our shop shut down. In 2004, we had 2,850,000 tradesmen across Turkey, and as of 2013, the figure dropped to 1,600,000. Unfortunately, our tradesman did not get what he deserved during the AKP ruling period. At the opening of a shopping mall, Mr. Prime Minister said, "The grocery store is over." He left the small tradesman to his fate. He and his family's livelihoods were sacrificed and left unemployed to the great shopping barons. Dear lawmakers, problems in the industry have also increased in our country over the past 11 years. Due to the wrong policies followed during the AKP administration, our industry has been exposed to the destruction of cheap interim goods from abroad and has been dragged into a montage-based, import-dependent structure. The motor power of growth is the ability of economies to export. In developed and developing countries, the share of high-tech products in industrial production and exports has reached double digits, while in our country, this rate is very low. In 2002, the export share of high-tech products, 6.2 per cent, was reduced to 3.7 in 2012. Let the AKP draw pink paintings; our national industry, our manufacturer, is in trouble. Many of our industrialists, businessmen and tradesmen have fallen into debt and had to close their businesses. During the AKP's rule, foreign trade deficit records were broken, and our country became an import paradise in 11 years. The foreign trade deficit, which was 15 billion dollars in 2002, increased to 82 billion dollars as of October 2013. In 2002, exports received an import rate of 69.9%, while in 2013, the rate was reduced to 60 per cent. There's been a $672 billion foreign trade deficit in 11 years, so $672 billion is gone. The same can be seen in the open. In 2002, the current account, which was $626 million, exceeded $58 billion today. At this rate, a great economic crisis awaits our nation. Dear lawmakers, like our tradesmen, industrialists and civil servants in our country, our farmers in agriculture and livestock are in a state of misery. When AKP was in power, agriculture was reduced, our farmer left his field, and we almost ran out of farmers who didn't owe us any credit. In 2002, our farmer, who owed 530 million euros in debt, increased by 73 times to 39 billion euros in the last ten years. Our country, one of its own number of self-sufficient countries in agriculture, is among the countries that import agriculture during the AKP's rule. With AKP power, many agricultural products are imported in our country, while 3 million hectares of land are stopped empty. Because of the high input costs in agriculture, our farmer has become unprofitable. The government seems to support the farmer, but its supports are more indirectly taxed. The 2014 budget says that agricultural benefits are earmarked for $9 billion and $700m. This proportion corresponds to 0.56 percent of our non-national product. That's what the farmer's worth. Our farmer's in debt, our farmer's miserable, our farmer doesn't know what to do. It's the AKP's government that's doing this to our farmer. Dear MPs, our nation has many more problems. Our nation cannot lead a peaceful life. Now everyone has to stop paying off their debts and figure out how to reduce them. Stop looking at the pink paintings you're drawing and start looking at the facts of life. Otherwise, this will leave our nation with greater disasters. On this occasion, I would like to ask that the economic budget of 2014 again be a blessing to you, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0367par0022	Thank you. The third speaker for the National Movement Party is Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0368par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Before I begin my discussion, I am grateful and grateful to recall the late Alparslan Turkesh, who was the founder of our party, who was the founder of the Development Ministry, or rather, the State Planning Agency, and many other institutions, such as the development of the country. Dear friends, the Ministry of Development, the planning, the planning, the program, the multi-year budgeting, are telling us about our friends here. I'd like to briefly say a few words about the Court reports, which are the most important topic of discussion in the budget this year, before we go into discussion. Our esteemed Commissioner, who made it necessary for me -- he just said Mr. Yellow, but I'll say it's my brother -- Mr. Elvan drew a painting that he was telling us about, and he said it once more every time we told him.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0369par0029	Even the ministers didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0368par0030	So even the Court's President, the Speaker, even the ministers, couldn't defend the detail at that level. I won't waste too much time on that subject, but in the general external audit report he said, everything is written down, no need for details. I'll just read a sentence from title number two of what he said. The issue of public administrations under the general budget: the failure of institutional financial tables to be presented to the Court's audit is the 1st title. I'm reading the first paragraph, and I'm not going to say anything else to Mr. Elvan, other than that: the general budget (equal to Law No. 5018) is not being produced at the institutional level where all public administrations are reported for their transactions on income, expenses and property, and cannot be submitted to the Court's audit as predicted by Law 5018. This is contrary to the principles of transparency and accountability provided by Law 5018.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0369par0032	I don't care what he says!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0368par0033	The summation of the subject is the first sentence of the relevant part of the external audit report. I don't want to say too much to him. Unfortunately, the right to budget, which is the most important right of the House, cannot be done under the Court's supervision. So, if he asks the details, then I can send Mr. Elton a detailed note, but I really don't think it's right to defend it that way. There's something missing here, just like the Court said. There's another proposal waiting on our Commission's agenda for this to be completed as soon as possible, concerning the Counting Law, which came in April last year, with the signature of 124 of our friends. There was something there that would completely defunct, but without even waiting for it, unfortunately, on December 8th, with the change in the official newspaper, the Court was completely unable to write a report. Now, we call it the Ministry of Development, where we discussed the development plan that lays five years ahead of us in the next five years, in economic, social, all fields, in cultural areas. Frankly, I've suffered a lot, and I'm still not getting a public reaction from him. So at the start of the plan, Mr. Minister's beautiful words:..... it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, well, it's going to be democratic, we've got work here. So you're going to call it a forward democracy, and you're going to go through the entire five-year development plan without a proper discussion. Look, now, what day is today, Mr. Secretary? We're just discussing the budget, which is a year's implementation of the plan. How many hours do we talk? Turn around and see how many hours we talked about that day. That's all we talk about for a year. We've spent the next five years here on Monday, where the TVs are off, no one's listening. I think it's a shame for us. Now, we call it plan, program, budget. Let's put harmony between them. The plan has a situation. We're looking at the mid-term program, we're looking at the financial plan, and it doesn't even come in September on the last day. How can this budget be... We're coming into the budget, and the Minister of Finance says, "I swear, even those who look at what I'm saying don't fit, what should I do?" I've given you an opening. Come on, VAT. Come on, VAT, let's give you an additional budget from the private communication tax. Now, when you don't get it, there's no point in the discussion we're having here. Thus, the plan by the Ministry of Development, the former State Planning Agency, has nothing to do with priority sectors, priority areas, priority investments. Now, my friends are looking, and here's the Minister. One concrete example has just been mentioned by our dear speaker, the city hospitals. We lived up there together, and I still can't believe it, Mr. Prime Minister, that these city hospitals are being laid out in gaudy ceremonies. Dear friends, what kind of a thing is that? The YPK is making a decision, the relevant ministry is here, and our friends who made his secretariat are here. The YPK says that you can do this without creating a new bed capacity in eight provinces in these provinces, so you will close as much as you open it. There is a YPK decision. But we're not looking at it, sir, we're going to build a city hospital. Where are you going? Here's to Bilkent. What do you give with it? Now, it doesn't make any sense if we go from the city to the hospital runts. Our esteemed Assistant Undersecretary was here, I asked in the Commission, and there was no Minister at the time: In the coming process, if we're going to do a hospital planning reform, a target of 26,000 per bed has been set. Twenty-six on ten thousand now. I said, what is our goal in the middle, long term? The number of beds for 30,000 people per ten thousand. I mean, figure it out? Our friends told us that when you added the bed capacity of 5.2 billion total investments in the 2013 investment programme -- we're going to look at the current bed capacity -- we're going to look at the investment program -- we're going to achieve the medium-long-term goal that our friends are saying when you add the bed capacity of 5.2 billion investments in the 2013 investment programme last year. When? Until 2015, at most, because all of those projects end in 2013, 2014, 2015. What I'm trying to say, dear friends, is that we're going to be able to achieve our goal when the hospitals that are being held at the present time are complete with the normal tender method, and we're going to be constantly investing in hospitals that are borrowing the government for the next 25 or 30 years. Mr. Secretary knows, he's innocent, he knows, and I know, but as a member of the Council of Ministers, why do I say that? The Ministry of Development has the President of Public Special Partnership, but he's coming in. He says, "Let me do it myself." The Ministry of Health says, "Let me do it myself." The Ministry of Culture - Mr. Günay here, we asked him - "Sir, this is what we're going to do on this island, so let's do it this way from here. Why did I tell you that in detail? It's our every job, everyone wants to be exempt from the Public Contraction Act, and everyone wants to be an exception to one thing. So why are we making those laws, Mr. Secretary, why are we building those institutions? There are primary sectors here that you've identified, and in the coming years, there are trends in the world up to 2050. According to this, we'll sit down... and if there's anything to be done under the do-and-do model, there's the Department of Development, there's the Special Branch. They wrote to a friend of ours at the Ministry of Health -- it's a feast -- that he has no charge to spend; the general manager needs to be an expense officer, the head of the agency is a expense officer. I mean, as a sign of how much we don't care about this job, how much we don't mean it, and that's not the right thing to do. Why is this happening? So, these economic issues, priorities, investment priorities... there are structural measures that we should have taken here, as Mr. Ayhan had just said to Mr. Calayan, political, sterile disputes, daily strife, the Constitution, the Openment, the advance of democracy, and we're going to go here. So, what's it gonna be? Mr. Haluk has just been told that the regime of the Process has been lifted. It's not on the website. On the other side, we said something about GITES, Mr. Secretary said something. There are arrangements to be made in the service system, so let's encourage the sector in a narrow area. I gave an example from my own knowledge, from my counties, to Manavgat, to Gündoğmü in Antalya, not Akseki. We're still waiting, they say. Unfortunately, we're in a discussion that spurs these structural measures, leading to the daily infertile political disputes. Unfortunately, on top of all of that, our friends, members of the ruling party -- especially the Prime Minister -- come in here and give us constructive speeches where they're going to ask for our support, and they continue to repeat the wrongs. I'm still, I swear, I'm tired of fixing it, and the Prime Minister isn't tired of saying the same thing. I mean, it's the same thing, so every time we're here, our friends are saying it, we're saying it. This misinformation is constantly being given, and the porter, as if it were something of politics, Mr. Elvan agrees with it from time to time, and I looked carefully at the budget talks. As our commissioner, my former colleague, as someone who worked at the same institution, I expected something more technical, that we lack, let's do it together. I expected him to say, frankly, I'm a little disappointed. Mr. Minister, because he says I'm already retiring, so don't be too hard on me.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0370par0043	No, no, no. Why? You're free to go. I have no fear, God willing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0371par0044	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0370par0045	Yes, it is.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0046	I mean, for him, of course, slowly... the joke aside, why did I say that? I'd like to ask the Minister a question, too, just in case. I won't get on your side too much, but I've told you many times, Mr. Prime Minister's advisors will change this text. Mr. Minister, at least tell me, we've set a record in exports. He says, "Our foreign trade has come up here." He says, he doesn't say we broke the record in imports and foreign trade deficits at the same time.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0373par0048	He says the same thing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0049	I mean, at least let the minister say something about it. This foreign trade, there's no imports, so inside the Ministry of Economics, I don't understand. I mean, if friends forget, the Minister should remind our Prime Minister. Of course, not only are there foreign trade deficits, dear friends; there are constant false statements about the IMF, there are false statements about the reserves, there are false explanations about debt again. Frankly, I'm a little surprised to hear this, but I have to remind you over and over again. Otherwise, because Mr. Prime Minister hasn't given up, we have to tell the truth. I mean, it's one of his most common mistakes. He's using it as it suits him. We paid off our debt to the IMF, he says. All our friends are standing here. How about a country that doesn't pay the IMF? It means you're bankrupt if you don't pay. You'll pay. You pay the IMF, you pay the bank, you pay the consortium. When we arrive, don't we pay off the previous government's debt? We'll come when you're gone, won't we pay? We'll pay. And why would he say that? We don't work with the IMF. I asked many times, who was in power in 2005? Who took the $10 billion you got in May? It's been a long time since the 57th Government's debt has been paid, this is your debt, why don't you tell me that? Wasn't the AKP government in power in May 2005, friends?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0374par0052	No.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0375par0053	No, that's the first AKP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0054	So, therefore, you used 10 billion, 6 billion SDRs, close to 10 billion dollars, 9 billion or so dollars. So you have to tell them the truth. Mr. Prime Minister also said a very interesting statement about the reserves, so I'm really surprised. It says: there was a $27.5 billion exchange reserve -- look, now, I'm giving this place to you, and I'm asking all the economists, who say they know economics -- we've worked, we've worked, we've worked, we've worked, we've worked, we've worked, we've come, we've come, we've come, we've come, we've worked for 134 billion. What are you working for, you've worked for reserves? Who worked? I mean, I really don't get it! Is the Central Bank independent or not? Is the Prime Minister interfering with the reserves or not? If it is, then it's a means of manipulation in exchange. If he does, he serves the interest lobby. I don't understand how it works, how it strives and collects reserves, guys; one.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0376par0056	He took the interest down because the Minister said so!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0057	Second of all, where's the money? You worked, you tried, and whose pocket did you put it in?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0377par0058	The interest lobby.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0059	This money you're putting in, what bank is 134 billion in? Look, if it's not in the banks he's accusing himself of, all of it, then I'll resign as a member of parliament. Look, if it's not in the vault of international banks he accused of being interest lobbying and American treasury bonds, then where is it in the vault of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0378par0060	They bought $57 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0061	And how much money you're collecting, how much money it costs, how much interest we have when we're doing a reverse operation, what's the social cost? Please tell Mr. Prime Minister that, it's going to go to the boom we're talking about here. Again, he said about unemployment; he said about unemployment here, but he doesn't know the final number or he talks about the end of 2012. They didn't remind me again that the targets didn't hold, that we re-reschedule, that we're up to 9%, and that they're starting to rise as a result. It's about the loans, well, here he talks about the account of international investors, contractors. He says he's proud of the private sector's investment. So, what about the private sector's debt, what's he investing in?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0379par0064	No, they don't count.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0372par0065	He's doing it out of debt. Friends, these are the risks in politics. That's not going to happen by limiting credit cards, reducing payments, limiting consumption. What we need to do -- we always say -- is to start production, investment, export campaigns, but to support it with structural measures, not words. By moving away from virtual agendas, we need to take these structural reforms and follow a strategy that will encourage the primary sectors, the sectors involved in the plan, the sectors involved in the programme, to reproduce, to export. Otherwise, if you just adopt a housing-to-house, construction-based, consumer-based, import-based structure, God forbid, we may soon face a Turkish mortgage crisis, and our current deficit will increase, and our problems will increase. Hopefully, if you take this into consideration, we'll be constructively contributing to the release of these bills as the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0380par0070	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the final speaker is Adnan Chiefk Ugly, Hatay MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0073	Congressmans, for the 3rd time, I stand before you to express my views on GAP, DAP, DOCAP and KOP budgets. I salute you all with respect, with love, sir. It's an important chance to follow the idea. Whatever we said in the 2012 budget, whatever we said in 2013, unfortunately we have to say the same thing about 2014. So, when we look at it, I want to say exactly what Mr. Minister said about GAP, DAP, KOP, and DOCAP: (GAP Regional Development Administration, along with the Konya Plain Project, East Anatolia Project and East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administrations are also conducting institutionalisation and action planning. For three years, fear God. It says here that new regional development administrations continue to work on DAP, KOP, DOCAP institutionalisation and planning for action. This is your plan and your testimony. So, so, when we look at it one at a time, we can't find anything to talk about these projects because they're not being done. There's money being spent, there's institutionalization, there's a plan of action, there's a rental, there's a building being rented, there's nothing going on. When we look at the existing GAP, particularly the Gap is a irrigation project. I mean, that's how it's known to everyone. On this occasion, I also know that it is my duty to remember Mr. Süleyman Demirel out of this place with gratitude and gratitude. So, we always have to remember the precious people who started a project, who opened the horizon of Turkey, and we have to express our gratitude and gratitude to them on every occasion. And we said last year that 370,000 hectares are going to be the answer this year. So, friends, if this goes on, these irrigation channels will be over in about a hundred and seventy-eight years and -- let my dying donkey come in summer -- and at this rate, there won't be any watering problems in the GAP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0382par0077	He won't go, I hope he doesn't, we're done!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0078	Now, again, according to your statement -- I mean, these are your documents, dear friends, government documents -- I'm reading from here: livestock in the GAP area has not been able to develop in a rush to plant production. During the 1990-08 period, there have been declines in the GAP region, animal presence, as in the entire country. Now, a week ago, we listen to Mr. Prime Minister, and we start exporting to animals. He says, that's what the ministry says. Dear friends, these areas are very important. If you can't develop animalism in these areas, if you can't develop irrigation, the population will starve and migrate. So, when we look at the migratory situation -- my friends have expressed it very well -- but I apologize again -- the net migration rate of our Adıyaman brothers 13.79 in Adıyaman is 13.79; Batman 9.1 in Batman; Diyarbakır brothers 10,49; Kilis 14.6; Mardin 11.9; Siirt, 18.50; Siirt, Siirt -- is the province where the Prime Minister is elected. Someone wants to give the Southeast, this geography a political name, and they even want to put it in Parliament's budget records, but ironically, I have to say that if it goes at this rate, there will be no Kurds in the southeast for about 15 or 20 years; let's see what happens then. I mean, that's not how it works. It's the seriousness of a project. Dear friends, GAP, KOP, DOC, since we don't have much to talk about, let's at least, at least, get to the farmer's problems with this opportunity. So, both in the same area and elsewhere, from potatoes to olive oil, our farmers have important problems. At least, on this occasion...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0383par0081	The farmer has cancer, cancer, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0082	So the farmer comes back and gives the game here. It's a bit of a nuisance.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0384par0083	He's giving it to you out of the blue.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0084	So I guess it's hard to imagine that we're talking here, we're talking about our farmer's problems, but when we look at the party where our farmer voted, the AKP comes out again, which is weird, and the ministers of power are coming to us here, and you're telling us that, but the farmer doesn't believe you, and he's giving us the vote again. Now, I say to our farmer from here, don't tire us out, so do as you're told or be content. I say this, especially as an opposition MP, as a farmer, so if you want your situation to improve, our precious farmers must teach the ruling party a lesson. For example, olive oil. Our Yayladı, Altınöz, partially Hassa -- there are other regions -- but it's heavy here -- these are olive oil manufacturers. We took a look at some documents when we said that our oil producers in the goldenpot were victims of the oil that came from Syria last year, and that our olive producers were victims of the oil that came from Syria. So we're also observing that your Syrian policy has ruined even the oil producer in Ayvaluk. There's 130-140,000 tons of olive oil this year that the National Olive Oil Association predicted, and the same institution represents how much illegal olive oil comes from Syria, you guys know? 60,000 tons. So almost one third of our production is smuggled out of Syria, and the oil producer is devastated. I wonder when you'll think of a way to sit down and take precautions for that. And here I salute the oil producers who gave the game to the ruling party again, sir. Snow farmer's condition is the same. It never changes. We are the 2nd country in the world after China in cotton imports, so if you hit it by population, you hit it by facial measurement, we're number 1. And the cotton farmer is miserable. We handed you the cotton at $1,100 eleven years ago in the 57th government, which you disliked. Despite the economic crisis, despite economic difficulties, despite the trilateral coalition, we delivered the cotton farmer's cotton cotton cotton cotton from $1,100. It's been so many years, it's just been a while. 500 lira, or 1.5 lira -- or 1.5 million -- with the Prime Minister's thing, we've also confused the numbers -- the new 1.5 million. But they have great inputs. We're using the world's most expensive diesel. So a member of the Republican People's Party has just expressed it with milk. So, here's what I'm looking at, the wheat is 600 thousand, which is 7 kilos of wheat -- 7 kilos of milk -- but we can get 1 liter of diesel. With eight kilograms of corn, we can get a liter of diesel. Look, where he's from, where he's from, Mr. Prime Minister, where he's from. The Prime Minister says the other day, we threw six zeroes out of the line, the toilet was 1 million, we dropped it to $1. I mean, it's like it's cheap. Tangerine 250 cents, toilet 1 million...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0385par0090	The narcissist is devastated, the narcissist is bankrupt.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0091	The tangerine is 250 cents, my friends, and you can't brag about it! Now, Erzin, Payas, Four Ways, for example Hatay, these are narcissists, these are miserable. They can't raise their son, their daughter, they can't pay their debts. They suffer and suffer at the doors of banks. The Agriculture Bank has passed the club's interest. So there's a sense of interest in farmers at the Farm Bank, which seems to be so low, but after a bit of a deadline, it's past its clubeers. And new units are opening up at the Agriculture Bank, now it's a commercial bank. It's called Zaraat. Let's get rid of it. What's the farmer doing this time, going to foreign banks? Foreign banks lie in wait, mortgage their land on foreign banks. So please, let the no-historyer look back, I said it here on this stand. France has sent the Bank of Tunisia to alienate Hatay's lands, and Hatay has been mortgaged by the Bank of Tunisia, including our territory, and not to mention the ethnic identity that lives there -- I find it offensive -- handed over to other citizens, friends, please take a good look at this, these are very serious issues. By God, Hatay has the famous Samandag pepper, and they save it with that pepper. So the government has nothing to do with this, thank God. The Reyhanite is miserable, so it's Reyhan, Sandy, Hassa, Bozhan, these are some grapes, some olive oil, but the cotton-planting areas, they're miserable here. We're looking at Reyhan, where we've suffered a great deal. We asked Mr. Prime Minister how much damage is there in writing? What did you do? There are 11 trillion damages. The official letter of the Prime Minister says there are 9 trillion, so there are no 2 trillion. It's a country that's already miserable, so there are psychological dimensions to it. Today, a daughter I know very well in Reyhan still faints every day, still suffering from it. A girl and a young girl who worked in an area close to the explosion can't recover. So they don't just have economic dimensions, they have very different dimensions. Potato man, 18 cents, 22 cents, down to seven cents. What's he gonna do, potato man? How's she gonna get married, how's she gonna pay you back? He won't be able to pay.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0386par0096	The apple is in the branch and the apple is in the tree.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0097	Here, which one should we count? I mean, I don't know, the diamonds are probably making a lot of money in your administration, but the farmer's going down.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0387par0098	Shippers, ship's logistics.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0099	Well, I mean, something like that happens, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0388par0100	The ship owners won well, and the ships increased.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0101	Now, the ship's owners, the ship's owners, the fuel is given to the owners in extremely good conditions, but they're spared from the farmer. So, stepchild farmer, take your mother too. She's found an economic picture of the farmer, and the farmer takes his mother and goes. Now, this farmer needs to take his mother and go to the box, so I'm calling you again, this isn't going to work. Dear friends, as a result, we're talking about the farmer's issues here, but each section is in the same trouble, the farmer's in a very tight spot. You come in here and say that you're saying that you're having problems, you're not producing projects. Look, we told you last year, and regardless of the circumstances, you have to tell the truth, agriculture loans increase your work during your time, and it helps the farmer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0389par0105	He's bringing straw!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0106	Bank this. We call you. Bank this, so set up an agricultural bank, the Agriculture Bank is no longer the farmer's bank. And on that day, a member of parliament, here -- I think Aykut Erdoğdu sir, expressed from the Republican People's Party -- has sunk 670 trillion loans. Where? He's in a mall.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0390par0108	From the farmer's pocket!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0109	Where's this from? From the farmer's pocket.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0391par0110	How do you sink it? It's being sunk by saving a group!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0381par0111	Mr. Prime Minister has always expressed in every way that you have sunk the Bank of Agriculture during the 57th Government. Sir, now like this, now like this. What's going on? Who's been screwing up the Farm Bank? Thieves. These things need to be accounted for. The farmer needs to hear this from this bench, folks. He needs to know. That's what we're talking about. So the farmer has sunk the money to the farmer at the Farm Bank, and the farmer seems to be guilty. What did you give the farmer? Sir, the Minister of Agriculture, at every opportunity, comes out when we say these things, so, you give 550 trillion in your time, if I remember correctly, we now give 12.5; even 13.5 quadrillion. I mean, I'm having a hard time understanding the logic that you're doing a favor to a professional group that you owe 30 or 40 times as much as you owe them, so it's probably a medical case. Likewise, the officer, the worker, you borrow them all, you borrow them all, fine, and then we raise them. If you're raising him, why is he going down? If you're raising him, why is he foreclosure? Why is he foreclosure? Of course, you'll have an explanation for them anyway, Mr. Secretary will surely arrive shortly, and we're preparing for a new tender of 240 thousand square meters, 240 thousand things. Here, maybe you'll make this tender, about the irrigation, about the watering in the GAP. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, it's not about bidding, it's about how many miles a year you make. Otherwise, you're going to do 500,000 kilometers, and then you're going to do it. You're going to say, "We did it." My compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0392par0119	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the first speaker is Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0122	Mr. President, lawmakers, at this time of night, I have made a commitment to the issues of the two most important ministries of Turkey, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Economics. I plan to make my speech on two main axes. One of them is regional, local, assessments, criticisms and comments about what we might call local. The second is the general economy of Turkey and its development strategy. Dear friends, let's start with the GAP issue that has occupied our agenda almost every day for the past 40 years. Although, after me, our Honourable Congressman Ibrahim Binici will make his speech on this subject. I'm just going to go over a couple of very short issues with this. One of our Mardin MPs, Mr. Abdurrahim Akdağ of the ruling party, gave figures on the irrigation canals, and that's it. I don't want to drown you in numbers like Süleyman Demirel. I'm just asking a very simple question: Did a drop of water flow into Mardin Plains or not? That's it. There's no length, no short, no rest, no front, no back. Has a drop of water flowed from the Plains of Mardin, from the border of Viranşehir, from Derik, to Nusaybin, or not? That's question number one. Second, in 11 years of power and in each period, it is said that the previous authorities did nothing about it, they neglected it, they did dams, they didn't do channels... (Dear friends, 11 years have passed, and you still tell the same stories, still. What happened in 11 years. So from the English Tunnel to the city of Shenzhen in Hong Kong to Guangzhou...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0394par0127	Even Hong Kong has come to China.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0128	Yes, the problems have been resolved and Hong Kong has been handed over to China, what has happened. You've still been, for 11 years, trying to figure out why these irrigation channels haven't been built or how much they've been built, how much they'll be made, and just like Mr. Demirel, you're putting us to sleep. You were saying, 12,13,14,15, we're learning to count. I'm leaving this. As I said, my friend will inform you in a much longer, much more detailed way. Dear friends, of course, in this case, the Southeast Anatolia Project, the East Anatolia Project, the East Black Sea Project and the Concrete Plain Project? I made the same promise last year, and I asked some questions. What's been done this year from last year to this year, actually, I'm curious, but I'm looking at it, I'm looking at it, I'm reading it, I'm looking at it, I'm looking at it, I'm seeing nothing. And I'm going online, I'm looking at the address of the Local Registering System, and I see 490,000 people registered in the Giresun population in Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0395par0130	554 thousand people.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0131	Last year's figure was 490 grand. It hasn't been announced yet this year.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0395par0132	Except for the ones who took 545,000 records, the ones who were born.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0133	Army 485,000, Kastamonu 530,000, Rize 200-odd, Tripoli the same way. Two million is only from the East Black Sea. So that doesn't include Kastamon, just Kastamou 530,000 in the West Black Sea.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0396par0134	If you had looked at the husband, add him.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0135	Yeah... Well, friends, okay, that's how you delay the Southeast Anatolia Project with specific debates. We gave up on ourselves. So what do you do about the East Black Sea, towards Istanbul, about this human stream, about the attack, even the -- let's say -- the expedition, for this? What do you do about the Plain of Conium, and again, in the same way, what do you do about the East Anatolia Project? Erzurum, Erzincan, Kars, Pain, Igdir, it's empty. God help you. So our situation is much better -- Diyarbakir, Antwerp, Mardin; hudayinabit, faith force, hard work, border trade, agriculture -- we're saving ourselves somehow. So, East Anatolia's empty, what's it gonna be? If you call it livestock, it's gone, so is agriculture. There's a lot of numbers on that, too. So 226,000 Ardahan people live in Istanbul. So, what's it gonna be? And what did you do to find a cure for that? You've announced a huge project. All the engineers, all the architects... God rest their souls, you have revealed a project that would amaze the architect Sinan if he rose from his grave, saying, "We will make a second throat for Istanbul." So I made an offer to set up the Ministry of the Rescue of Istanbul. I lived in Istanbul for twenty-five years. Since I was a child, I spent all summer vacations in Istanbul, in Boğaziçi, in Babel. My whole family, my four uncles, my grandmother, my grandfather, Baby. My heart aches when I go to Istanbul. I leave at night, return to Diyarbakır in the morning; I leave in the morning, and return in the evening, as soon as my work is done, and my furnished house is still standing. How did you turn Istanbul into this? But what if you don't solve the GAP, you don't solve the Plain of Iconium, you don't implement the East Black Sea Project, you don't bring Project East Anatolia to life? When you were going to build attraction centers, you were going to build 20 attraction centers; you were going to make Konya, Denizli, Manisa, Aydın, Tripoli, Erzurum, Van, Diyarbekir, Eskişehir, a center of attraction? Where do we bring another 10 million people to Istanbul instead of doing this? You can bring it from Georgia, from Azerbaijan, from Bulgaria. There's no more, there's no more population. For him, dear friends, the first problem today is related to these projects: Istanbul is connected to them. Istanbul will not be saved until these projects are properly implemented, and Turkey will not be saved until Istanbul is free. Pity. Now, Haydarpaşa Customs, where more than half of Turkey's imports are made, is still in the heart of Istanbul. Yeah, do you have customs on the throat, do you have port? You know, cruise ships, tourism, travel, okay, fine. The shipyards are still standing in Halic, the Tuzla Shipyard is still in the most unlikely place, and Turkey has a 20-km coast, like Iraq, that leads only to Basra. Do you guys know how many thousand kilometers of shores there are? There's more than 3,000 kilometers of beach, about 4,000 kilometers. You brought them and put them all in Istanbul. Ports are in Istanbul, customs are in Istanbul, shipbuilding shipyards are in Istanbul, all medium-sized industry is still in Istanbul. Go to Topkapi, and look at Topkapya, Edirnekapya, and still half the industry. So, what did you design to solve these? So let's not doodle each other like this now, but come out and say: "We're taking the Tuzla Shipyard of Istanbul here." We're taking Haydarpaşa Customs here. This is where we transfer the industry from Topkapi. And, dear friends, you'll never get anywhere again unless you give sectoral incentives to these matters. Now, the first district, the second district, the sixth district, that's, that's about as much incentive as... numbers, sizes. We were in college. God bless you, now a bureaucrat friend of mine, we live here in the same house, and a few friends of ours are lawmakers from the AK PARTY, and we are students in the same house. Süleyman Demirel used to give numbers all the time. People would say, "Ya, how many numbers do they know?" One day a friend of ours laughed and said, "Does anyone know these numbers? Tell me, do you remember any of these numbers? But our cities are in this state, and this migration is still going on. For him, Turkey's first problem is first planning Turkey's industry, trade, tourism, ports, customs. If you know nothing about this, see Germany. There are 85 million people, more than us, and their land is about one-third as much as ours, 35-37 percent. Germany's lands are 300 to 1,000 square kilometers, the largest cities of Hamburg and Berlin. Düsseldorf, Hannover, Cologne -- all of them -- Frankfurt, 700, 800,000, 900,000 -- are a million-dollar city. How did he plan it? What sectors did he transfer to? So the first problem today is the project of the East Anatolia Project, the Eastern Black Sea Project, the Asian Plain Project (GAP), the Southeast Anatolia Project (GAP) and the attraction centers in the macro plan. Please come out to us before these imaginary projects, from the third bridge or the new throat to Istanbul, which makes no sense, or what benefits it may have been, and here it will become an unknown urban legend, and here it will be the centre of the European I don't know about, and here it will be, according to the Montrö Agreement that passes through the straits, and there's a saying that we don't know anything about it, and we have a saying that I came from the village tomorrow. When the stenographers were recording, they corrected tomorrow as if I had said it wrong. Friends, I have come from the village tomorrow. We have a rhyme called So you're treating us like people from the village tomorrow. Explain this to us. Say, look, we've done these projects, we've put these development moves into place, and we've done these things about these things, especially about attraction centers. For example, we've been saying for years that we don't want industry for Diyarbekir, let it be for you. Can it be industry for Antalya now? Certain cities are a city of health, a city of education, a city of tourism, a city of commerce. So there are certain sectors, plan them. Can you now build a factory for Bodrum? Is Marmaris a thermal plant? There's a book of accounts, you know that, you know that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0397par0143	They did it, and they did it to Gökova.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0398par0144	They're doing it, they're doing it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0145	And now, dear friends, after all this introduction, another important problem is that Turkey's inner peace is gone today, so it's religious, secular, Kurdish; here's the Turkish issue, I don't know, Kurdish issue; then Alevi, Sunni issue, a confrontation, a conflict. Come on, whatever the fight is in there, be patient, we'll work it out amongst ourselves. Well, you fought with everyone outside. Now look, a merchant in Hatay or a medium-sized industrialist in Gaziantep, or a cloth merchant in Burma, a towel merchant, and a textileist in Burma. Where? He can't go to Syria; he can't go to Basra, he can't go to Saudi Arabia, he can't go through Syria, he can't go to Iraq; he can't go to Gaza, he can't go to Egypt; now all those people are going to Egypt, he's taking his factories to Alexandria -- so I went to Egypt with a delegation -- and before he became a MP -- there's no way to know what happened to them. Africa and TUSKON have made hundreds of deals with my classmates - thousands of companies gone; they will deliver their property, they cannot pass through the Suez Canal this time. So, what are they gonna do? I'm the only one who's recently called you a laz contractor, and since the Black Seas have been taken a little bit, I'll add a Kurdish contractor to it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0399par0147	Who can't pass Suez, Mr. Tan?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0148	Sir, how will he go at work, who will he take it to, what deals will he make? You've disbarred the Foreign Office and the ambassadors. Who's going to solve the problems? Who's gonna follow you when something happens to you? So, right now, the ranking class is a certain number of contractors -- all of them I'm a contractor, I've done it for years, I'm a civil engineer, I've said so many times -- but other than a certain ranking class -- the people who have changed the precedents in cities, changed the constructions in the cities, especially the people who plundered the four sides of Istanbul, the Topkapı Palace, Sultanahmet Mosque, and the people who have broken the silhouette of Ayasofya, are devastated.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0400par0149	Whose clients are they?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0150	Libya stayed like this, and we took money to Libya; was it $200 million, how much?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0400par0151	400...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0152	$400 million? Yeah. Well, dear friends, if we don't discuss this, a year from now, two years from now, we're going to have a serious recession, and we're going to have a serious recession in the economy. There's TUSCON screaming. So, is there a macropolitics to solve these problems? That's the second most important thing. How are we gonna get through this? All right, let's get back to the neighborhood. I told you, I'm gonna talk a little bit about private stuff. Now, there are trades with the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Management. I'll give you your official name. It's also a polemic debate over Kurdistan that's been going on for a week. I'm gonna go in there for a little bit, but I'm gonna go in there nice and calm. We're trading $10 billion. Three days ago, I was in Erbil, I was in Duhok, I was in Zaho, our companies are all over the place. Okay, God give you more. Well, the highway's not over yet, so we're not done with the Urbana-Habur highway. Here's the other night, when the land route budget was being discussed, I had a long talk, Minister, and he didn't answer. I don't have this. The Habur road, I've just arrived, my friends, a road where you trade $10 billion, double road, come and see how it goes. Especially from Habur to Cizre, it's the cutest. The silopi freeway is still waiting. Look, we're talking about $10 billion, and it's going up every year, it's going up, it's going up, it's going up. You're building a railroad for Tbilisi, from Kars. Good luck. So I'm not saying, "Build us a ship, build us a ship, buy us a ship," as the Baghdad MP calls the First Assembly in Mebusand. But good luck to Georgia. Well, aren't you thinking of a railroad? We're thinking. They said. A study, Mr. General Manager put it in front of me the night before. So why don't you bid on it? That's it, tens of thousands of trucks, 3,000, 4,000 trucks a day, 5,000 trucks on the road. Does this stuff move in a truck? How far is this gonna go? The second door would open, the third door would open. We agreed, we talked, it's happening, Barzani said yes, Baghdad said no, that's this week. Well, when will it happen, how will it happen? I mean, how are these miles of truck lines gonna stop? And, dear friends, there's another tragic subject. Now, every time there's a Kurdistan word in here, certain friends stand up. Look, guys, the most important work there today is being done by an old mpp minister, a very famous minister, so I don't want to name the family company. The family company now runs the most important tunnels and highways. Again, in the same way, a former president of Rizespork is doing the greatest work. So the airports, the billion-dollar jobs, the Duhok Airport, $420 million, the Erbil Airport TIP Project $420 million, the Erbil-Kerkuk double-way, $100 million, that's what I'm talking about. I'm going from Erbil to Shaklava City three days ago. All the way here, posters like this are on the power poles. We have a company from Castamon -- I'm not going to name that company -- and you hung up his logo and ad, and all of them wrote the name Kastamon in bigger letters than your own company, so you're going to read a few miles of Castamon. I don't have a problem with Kastamon, my son-in-law is from Kastamon, I don't have a problem, I don't have a headache, but look, there's no reaction there. I mean, whether it's Kastamon, or whether it's a former minister of MHP, or, I don't know, black Sea companies, it's a billion-dollar business, not a lot of ice, but it's a reaction when the name Kurdistan is mentioned here. I went to the banks. I mean, Turkey, thank God... those are the positive steps. Many banks have been opened from private financial institutions to other banks. Believe me, I was going to take the pictures, but I didn't do it so there wouldn't be a polemic problem for the guys there. The pictures of Molla Mustafa Barzani are behind the principals' room, pictures of Mesut Barzani, and pictures of Ataturk. Now, my dear friends, these are signs of normalization, but we have to absorb them. So, let Kastamon exist there, let Kurdistan exist here, let historical facts not be denied, let peace win, let friendship win, let brotherhood win, let resolution come, let unity emerge. Oil now, for example. I've asked Mr. Taner Star many times. You're making oil deals, okay, fine. Turkey needs 50-60 billion dollars a year -- increasing every year, perhaps more so this year -- oil, gas, energy. Turkey is an energy-dependent country, which is not a very good thing in the long run. So if a country can't solve its energy, it's a serious problem in the 21st century. Let him figure it Who's it from? The Kurdish brothers have them; they have the Arab brothers; let them resolve them; let them come out of their own land, and let them resolve them. Dear friends, how do these deals happen today, with what numbers? British intelligence knows, dear friends, the CIA knows. Alan knows, he knows, you know?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0401par0163	I'm a member of the CSI Commission, we're overseeing it, the Court oversees it for us...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0164	You know what?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0401par0165	I don't know, we're not allowed.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0166	No one knows. Well, why don't we know? So Baghdad, which the world knows and objects to, says, according to your international agreements, I don't accept it. Here, outside, there's trouble, America, England, this one, the power centers in the Middle East. Dear friends, in this regard, I've laid the pipe, I've poured the oil, I've bought it for half the price of Iran, Azerbaijan, and there are numbers I know. So that's where I'm getting it from, I can't figure out how much it's taken, how much it's sold, how many million barrels it's got, what it's got. Well, dear friends, I did it, I did it. Look, if you go with logic, it'll be like Syria, it'll be like Maliki, it'll be like Libya, it'll be like Egypt. And so will this House. If you don't trust your own MP, you don't need to lock up this Parliament, lock up this place, lock up this door. So, we can have serious problems with this oil thing, which needs to be resolved with intelligent, well-behaved, reasonable, careful international balances. Yeah, let's solve it, we want to solve it, and we want our territory to take advantage of it. Look, not yesterday, but the night before, Mr. Secretary, and last night, 28 hours of the road to Cizre-Nusaybin was blocked, 28 hours.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0402par0169	Disaster...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0170	We're talking 28 hours, guys. It's a disaster, and it's a plain plain, plain plain like this. Twenty-eight hours! We're not talking three hours, five hours, six hours. It's at midnight, citizen, thanks to you, I've been able to reach our governor of Şırnak, and I've spoken. Four hours after the governor got there, he could barely make it through. Now, the cataclysm is okay, the cataclysm is on the eye. Here we go. If you didn't build the railroads, if you didn't build the highways, if you didn't build the solutions, you can't hide behind the disaster. It is upon the eye of the eye of God, upon the eye of the eye, but the same snow falls on England, and it falls on Japan. We're talking straight plains, and if you keep moving 4,000 trucks, 5,000 trucks every day, you won't be able to figure it out, tomorrow it'll be Istanbul traffic in a row, it's already a period, a week, ten days of trucks waiting. Dear friends, I'd like to ask you a few more things, again, by coming from here to Turkey's general issues. For example, our imports, exports have increased, it's gone up, it's been called that much. Before Turgut Ozal came to power, we had $2 billion of exports -- about 100 million, 50 million -- and we had about 4 billion imports. Now, I just asked my friends today, to renew myself, this year's export target could be about 153 billion dollars, yet not quite a certain number, or a little below. It's called, how much is the import? 251 billion dollars.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0403par0173	What's changed?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0174	So, what's changed in proportion? What did you produce? How many patents do we have? How serious a move do we have in industry, in other matters?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0403par0175	What brand do we have?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0176	What brands do we have?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0404par0177	Turkish Airlines.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0393par0178	Dear friends, if we don't have serious work done in these matters, we can put ourselves in numbers and only satisfy ourselves with numbers. And one or two things, Mr. Minister -- our Bingol MP -- I said again the other night about the highways: Why isn't this Bingöl-Diyarbakir road ending? Two tunnels and viaducts... I get briefings on the highway every month, every month. The viaduct thing is still unsolved with this tunnel, so no decision has been made. There will be a tunnel between Tapantepe and the outpost before that, and a viaduct will be built. You know, there's an important part of Bingöl, you know, in Diyarbekir, our countrymen, there's a constant commute, but, unfortunately, the General Directorate of the Highways didn't introduce this problem, so it couldn't be solved. There is a valley that passes through Bingol, and it divides the city, and there is a viaduct, and there is no proper valley arrangement. It's too much trouble, we want macro projects, we're waiting. Hopefully, good things will happen. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0405par0183	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0406par0186	Mr. President, as the speaker spoke, he said something that would mention the name of our party. For the record, as the National Movement Party, they stand up when you call us yesterday (Kurdistan). What we're saying is...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0405par0187	But he didn't mention the name of your party, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0406par0188	The former minister of the MHP (M.H.P.) said. For the record, I don't want any promises. What we object to is not who invested in the Iraqi Regional Kurdish Government. It's when you come in here and you write down the word "Kurdistan," where it's called "Turkish Kurdistan," where you ask for autonomy. Thus, Mr. Halaçoglu said the previous day that in no time in history, there was no mention of the name of Kurdistan (Kürdistan) in the northern part of Iraq, or anywhere in Turkey's Anatolian territory. It's him we object to. Any investor can make any investment they want. Whether he's from Castamon or whatever, that's not our job. That's what we object to. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0407par0192	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0408par0194	Mr. President, in no time in history, a region called Kurdistan has never been on the borders of Turkey. It has been said that I have been accused of referring to the party's name. I need two minutes to fix it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0407par0195	No, no corrections, Mr. Tan. He said it for the record. He didn't mention the name of your party either. You, please...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0408par0196	I'll tell you, then, for the record.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0407par0197	You go ahead and say it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0408par0199	So if we're going to discuss history here, let's discuss it with the documents.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0407par0200	It's already been discussed here. It was discussed the other day.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0408par0201	In 1847, the state of Kurdistan, which is based in Diyarbekir, was founded, and they have bishops and correspondence. The Prime Minister also mentioned all this in a speech. They're in the government archives. In 1847, the city of Diyarbekir, the city of Amid, the province of Kurdistan, existed officially and until the Sultan Abdulaziz.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0407par0202	Thank you. [[Continue]] 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Rail Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Account for 2012 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker is Bengi Yıldız, Batman MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0409par0233	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Development. I salute you all. The EC PARTY government decided to establish the Ministry of Development in June 2011 to simplify public administration. The establishment of the Ministry of Development also eliminated the State Planning Agency, which has a very important history in our public administration system. The ministry is said to have established regionalisation policies, the use of funds, the central level of policies to co-ordinate the region, to take on an umbrella for development agencies, to meet with the centre on regional development, to assume a sort of bridge between them and the central management of these agencies. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it turns out, localization, regionalisation, local participation in the voicing and decision-making process as an advent of the European Union, is a model that is no longer taken from the centre of every decision. Good. What's practically done? We also face a situation like meetings at the level of districts, briefings, district development agencies, creating twenty-five districts under the name, which is, in a form, all institutions of full democracy are being formed, but they are unauthorized and ineffective. What's the result? Have you transferred the warrants to the ground? Don't the mayors have to wear down the doors of the relevant ministry in Ankara for the slightest investment? As in the past elections, choose from us and we will open the mouth to the end. Won't you say? You've removed the inequality between the districts? Didn't you say, "Anado tigers," but didn't you squeeze the economy into Istanbul and its backyard, Izmit and Bursa? What did you do in Gap and DAP? Do you know what the situation is with these areas, which have enough potential for agriculture and livestock in Turkey? You're talking about an electrical leak in the region; do a survey -- you have data, of course -- what's the rate of electrical leakage in the region between 1980 and 1990? Look at your period when tobacco was banned, agriculture and animalism were inoperable, comparing the state of electrical fugitives between these periods. Then you'll see the truth, that there's an electrical leak there today, because of people's poverty and poverty. I'll give you a concrete name: I was born in the village of Seven Villages of Kozluk, Batman Province, Turkey. In 1983, electricity came to our village. In all records until 1992, you will find that the entire village has paid its debts. When you put tobacco in the area on quota, then you gave up buying, unfortunately, people were unable to pay for electricity. When you compare the periods in terms of leverage, Batman, and the entire region, we can all observe together that illegal electricity use is increasing in relation to developments in the region. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the people in the region were delighted. Look, there are ministers coming out of our area now. Mr. Cevdet Bey of Bingöl, Mr. Minister of Industry, Mr. Zafer Bey of Mud, Minister of Agriculture and Petting in Diyarbakır, and my constituency, Batman, Minister of Finance, head of the sparrowship, have been in the government of the EC PARTI for many years, some of them have served for many years. Now, of course, hope is the bread of the poor. There is a famous proverb called Indeed, when a local person assessed the situation, for example, in Batman, I know that local newspapers have written for days, the nomination of Mr. Finance Minister from Batman. From now on, our ministers know the reality of the region, they know the problems here, and they will certainly have a serious contribution to their solution proposals. They evaluated it, but unfortunately, I'm going to put it in data a little bit later. Now, about 70 per cent of the oil produced in Turkey is coming out of Batman. As I have noted, the Finance Minister's area has become Batman Turkey's 1st in unemployment figures this year. Last year Adıyaman was Turkey's 1st, and we all know that the rest of Turkey's oil came out of Adıyaman. In particular, there were hundreds of thousands of people living on tobacco, agriculture, and livestock. You've banned these during this period. Now, you have to ask, Mr. Development Minister, because he's in a ministry about regional agencies and other methods, alternative products; when we stop these areas where thousands of people work, when we ban them, when we put them in quotas, we have to replace him with new products. For example, you have privatized the TUPRASH, where thousands of workers work in Batman. Batman's income, especially the capital's income, was TPAO, but the number of workers there is now between 1,500 and 2,000. Mr. Secretary, your seminars, your meetings, your agencies don't mean anything to those people. Mr. Altan Tan just told me that half of Turkey is on its way to Istanbul. Let me point out that the people who feel the luckiest in the region right now, if there is an elderly person in the family or -- in the past, in fact, in human natural life -- are disabled people, we see that some families make their own living healthier. I mean, you've created a society that looks at the hands of elderly and disabled people, unfortunately. I'll give you an example, it was a bit of a joke. I went to my old sister-in-law's recently. My cousin said: "Yengem is showing off to me because he's getting his old salary. The other day, when I was washing her head and foaming at her, she said, "I don't think you'd be so mad if I didn't have that old-age salary." She said, "Of course, it's a good thing that the social state is paying our elderly, the disabled, but it's also tragic that the people of the region have been looking at the old salary of 10 families at home." Now, we're going to close down the difference between your ministry and your government's development between the regions. Let's see what we're going to do with the expression. Mr. Golden Tan has pointed out. There is a serious immigration situation in the region and in our country. You know, the death of 1 people is tragedy, 1 million people's statistics. Every province is an immigrant and an immigrant. If his migration is above the migration he received, they are called the cities that are migratory. Two thirds of the cities give clear migration, so there is a population loss. A clear migration is the erosion of the development resources, manpower and capital of a province. Why does a province become an immigrant on top of what it takes? The answer is simple. There is no job, no job, no victim, no job, no security, no life, no security, and no measures against earthquakes and floods. He'll emigrate for her. In the last five years of AKP Turkey, there have been nearly 230 thousand losses per year from clear immigration provinces. Fifty-five provinces of 81 give clear migration, while half of the migration is given from 20 provinces. Most of the cities that have been bled out by clear migration, weakened, and more regressed are the provinces of Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, but in recent years, especially the Central Anatolian, the Black Sea, and even the Mediterranean provinces, unfortunately, have started to exodus. We're improving, the economy's growing, we're growing in gross revenues, but people are leaving home, leaving home, and moving to other cities, western provinces. Van's the head of immigration-victim counties, especially. Van's lost 67,000 in the last five years with a clear migration. The Van migration, again, follows the migration of other Kurdish-dominated provinces, even without earthquakes. In the last five years, Diyarbakır's migration has been constant and 65,000 net migrations have occurred from Amed. Immediately, we observe that Ağar had left 59 thousand in Ağar, 55,000 in Mardin, 48,000 in Mush, 43,000 in Şanlıurfa, 39,000 in Adıyaman, 39,000 in the land where they lived. The migration doesn't stop in other eastern provinces. Erzurum 62, Kars 34, Sivas 38,000, of the cities where animalism has rapidly declined, has closed the last five years with a clear migration of 38,000. The migration, the loss of blood due to immigration, the victimization, the eastern and southeast provinces, where the Kurds are always busy. Central Anatolia, the Black Sea, and Mediterranean provinces are also victims of AKP's neoliberal policies. In these cities, the more productive activities, agriculture, animalism, industry declines, the more unemployment, income problems. The AKP, which has rescinded the social state, is accelerating the migration when it is unable to find a proper solution to the problems. In Central Anatolia, Yozgat is at the head of the cities, which migrate clearly. In the Black Sea, Samsun, Zonguldak, Tokat are among the provinces in which agriculture, industry, mining decline has increased unemployment and migration. In Çukurova, Adana in particular has now become an immigrating province, even though it has had the largest immigration province in the past. Kahramanmarash and Hatay are among the first 20 provinces to migrate. Now, fashion, investment in southeast provinces. Visits are being organised by a series of insincere businessmen, Diyarbakıra, Mardine. It's like there's a lack of peace that's prevented investments so far. Not at all. Wherever he sees himself, especially lately, we've been watching how the businessmen are investing heavily in the Iraqi Kurdistan in the oil line, in that area. Obstruction of immigration is the problem of other provinces as well as of Kurdish provinces, and unemployment remains the problem of other provinces. Dear friends, I've stated the unemployment situation, Batman is the most unemployed province with 25 per cent; Mardin is 20.9 per cent, Siirt 20 per cent, Şırnak 19.4, Adıyaman 15.8/ and other provinces follow. Unfortunately, other counties of the region are also monitoring this data. Now, the actual unemployment numbers are unfortunately hidden from the public. It's impossible to grasp the true nature of unemployment without knowing the definitions. For one thing, if you're over 15 years old and you're not looking for a job in the labor market, you're not being considered a labor force in the first place, so you're not considered employed or unemployed. For example, 11.4 million women who are holding back are not considered a labor force because they are housewives, so they are not considered unemployed. By accident, if one-quarter of these go into the labour market, Turkey will wipe out countries such as Spain, Portugal, South Africa, which are known as the highest unemployment countries. Almost three-quarters of men over the age of 15 can go on the labour market, while only 31 percent of women can go on the labour market. The unemployment rate for August 2013 has been announced at 9.8%. If you take this one by yourself and compare it to a year ago, there's a one-point increase, which is not less. The number is 2.4 million unemployed 12 months ago, and a year later, the number has reached 2.8 million, so 400,000 people have joined the official unemployed. However, the real scale of the problem will be revealed if you take into account the unemployed under cover, the semi-employees. This is what we call a broken-down cut. They're actually unemployed, but they're tired of looking for work, and if you ask them, I'll work, why shouldn't I? And the numbers? Not less ice, but 2.1 million people. Adding these to the official unemployed, the number of unemployed exceeds 4.9 million. But that's not over either. Amongst those who don't have jobs that are official and unaccounted for, there are those who seem to be in the wrong line of work called lack of employment. These are the ones who have only 40 hours of work a week and say they want to work harder if they find it. As of August 2013, 595 thousand people are in this position. Adding these, we can actually see that the number of unemployed is about 20 percent. Women's labor is one of the most fundamental problems of our country. According to the Turkish household labour force survey published every month, a woman of over 15 years of age, who could be a labor force, is one point above half of Turkey's population. We live in a country where the number of housewives is 11.4 million. In contrast, there are 8.8 million women who don't live at home and go into the labour market, and 12.5 per cent of them are unemployed, while 1.1 million are jobless, while others are somehow employed. Off the record, especially in female employees, there's too much off the books. These are 7 million, so 53 percent of the employees are off the books. The number of these is around 4 million, uninsured. Two-and-a-half million of them are in agriculture, but there are over 1.6 million women who work outside of agriculture. So that's one of the most fundamental problems in our country. Again, when we look at women who work as senior executives in companies, compared to men, there's something really troubling. There are only 155 female executives in the circle of 3,000-plus senior executives, which is a serious flaw. In developed countries, Norway, for example, women make up 36 per cent of high-level workers in such places, 27 per cent in countries such as Sweden and Finland, and the percentage of women in other European countries who follow this is much higher as managers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, in fact, we have more data to discuss, but we haven't had enough time. Thank you. And I wish this budget to the good of our people.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0410par0262	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is İbrahim Binici, the Şanlıurfa MP.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0411par0265	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the chairmanship of the GAP Regional Development Administration as part of the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the Southeast Anatolia Project, which has had over 40 years of history, has so far left 29 governments and 15 ministers behind, unfortunately not being a unique political material for prime ministers who have been stuck in the process. The goal of the project, unfortunately, is to address the intergalactic imbalance, improve the welfare level of the Southeast District, and improve human resources, but the fact that the National Security Council has been dealt with shows that the GAP is also used for other purposes. Basically, the GAP, which tried to build some kind of breakwater for the rising Kurdish politics, was transformed into an economic illusion for Kurds. If this yeast holds, they will eat the head of their children fighting for freedom from the Kurds. As a matter of fact, if the region develops and the people of the region become rich, political reactions and conflicts will end. He made it clear that the relationship between the Kurds and the GAP would be established. This lame understanding, which thought Kurds would replace collective rights demands with economic bribes, has been responsible for this mission from the very beginning. This mission, uploaded to the GAP, has embellished the dreams of all governments who have come to the end of the Kurdish freedom struggle. Thus, those who could not find a realistic solution to the Kurdish freedom problem were surrounded by the GAP, hoping for help in every area they were trapped in. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I think it would be helpful to go over this project with a very profound story and remind you again very quickly. The Southeastern Anatolia Project, which was created in 1977 with the reduction of the lower Firat and Dicle basin projects to a single project, includes nine provinces including Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, Batman, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Şırnak and Siirt. This area includes about 1 tenth of Turkey's geography and one fifth of the total irrigable land. If this project is completed, one-third of Turkey's total water potential will be controlled by the facilities built to Fırat and Dicle. Again, if this project is completed, 1,800,000 hectares of land will be watered. The 7,500 megawatt board will also produce 27 billion kilowatts of electricity per year. The GAP Master Plan was completed in 1989, where these targets were set up, and the GAP Regional Development Administration was established in the same year. With the implementation of this project, described by some as the seven earrings, the irrigation investments were almost forgotten, so to speak, transferred to God. Although it was designed as a regional development project, in the early years, energy projects from these dams and dams that did not create value for the region have been weighted down. After nearly 40 years, unfortunately, only 20 percent of irrigation projects have been completed. The GAP project, which has been going on for 40 years, has been viewed as a means of winning the Kurds' hearts, while has been presented as a project to improve Kurdish geography. The GAP project, which was turned into a snake story in this way, became a pelican in the language of every politician who sought Kurdish votes. Even if politicians or governments change, the promises of the end of the Gap have remained intact and have not changed at all. The AKP government, which left its 11th year behind, has made several commitments to the Gap, from the date of its employment to today. Dear lawmakers, in May 2008, all of you will remember the AKP government's big promotion to Diyarbakır, where members of the cabinet are almost full staff. The prime minister, who transformed the property into a full political show with nearly 100 MPs, occupational rooms managers, managers, mayors, businessmen and journalistic armies, has personally announced the same packages that were opened during previous governments. This package, which is expected to function as part of the Kurdish expansion, is called the GAP Action Plan. The prime minister is probably not a report, a project or a file that we announced today, when we lifted up one foot in Diyarbakir. His calendar was set, concretely defined as counsel, a well-funded action plan. He didn't even know his face was red as a beet. In a heated statement, the prime minister said that between 2008 and 2012, the action plan would water 1,60,000 hectares, produce 27 billion kilowatts per year, increase by 209 per cent per person, and create jobs for 3,800,000 people. Now, dear friends, I'd like to give you a wife at this point. Because even if there was a promise in the past, I'm stuck with the number of jobs. It says: Even if we accept false miscalculations, the total number of unemployed people across Turkey has been going from 2.5 to 3 million since 2005. Now, in the latest November issue of the Turkish Statistical Agency, I looked at the figures on employment and unemployment. I'm telling you from the agency's November bulletin that the number of unemployed people across Turkey increased by 361,000 in August 2013, and increased by the same period last year to 2 million 806,000 people. This is where I hang out. When your total number of unemployed people in your country is 2,800,000, you're going to come up with an action plan for a project that's turned into a snake story, you're going to do an account book, and then I'm going to hire 3,800,000 people to look people in the eye. Just think, my dear friends, if the action plan for the GAP had happened, we'd have a million jobs short, by God, and maybe we'd fill this gap with the members of the Free Syrian Army to cover it. Can such a tragedy be considered? In his heated speech to Diyarbakır, the Prime Minister said that so far many packages have been announced, reports have been published, but they are of no use. In the same speech, the Prime Minister also stated that for the first time, a plan of action that was set on the calendar was carried out during the AK PARTI rule. He had already provided the source of the Prime Minister GAPP, who accused all before him of not finding resources for the GAP and of incompetence. The prime minister provided the necessary source by putting his hand into the unemployment fund, where millions of unemployed people were asked to bring water from almost a thousand streams so that they could benefit from it, and therefore only a handful of unemployed people could benefit from it. The amount the AKP transferred from the unemployment fund to the budget was more than 10 billion 824 million liras. That number was taken from the Labour and Social Security Minister's statements, and is about twice the amount of money that has been paid from the fund's foundation to the unemployed so far, my friends. At 2008 prices, the amount required for the completion of the Gap was calculated at $41 billion,200m. The total amount of spending until 2008, when the action plan was launched, is also 26 billion liras in 2008. Here's a summary of the story, which is all worked up in the GAP Action Plan, which is made to look like the real target of the government, is to make this 27 billion-dollar extra expense and to finish the GAP (the story of the snake). So, what was the progression on this issue? The Minister of Development has provided information on the Gap in the budget's talks, which, I think, cannot be addressed due to the time shortage, but is referred to in the presentation brochure. Now, I'd like to share with you the information on the GAP in the presentation manual. In the presentation manual, he says, the source that was earmarked to the Gap during the action plan is 18 billion, 200 million, but the expenditures are 14 billion, 700 million dollars. The clear meaning of these expressions is: First, I couldn't give out the entire amount of resources in the plan; second, I couldn't spend the limited resources that I could spare, I couldn't do the work or the will to finish the job. Dear friends, I want to draw the bottom of something important here, which is that these expenditures are not limited to energy or agricultural irrigation investments. The amount of expenditure, such as education, health care, transport and employment, has been earmarked for such areas as the administrative ministries. Let's continue with the presentation manual. Again, Mr. Minister claims that before the central budget, seven per cent were earmarked for the GAP region, while the share was raised to 14 per cent during the action plan. Now, I must say, Mr. Secretary, when he's doing his share, he never, ever mentions the nearly $11 billion that's been stolen from the unemployment fund in the presentation manual. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, aside from the affluence of the numbers the Minister gave on exports and employment improvements in the presentation manual, the most interesting statement is about watering areas. Again, I quote from the presentation manual: During the action plan, significant improvements in watering infrastructure have been made, from 273,000 hectares to 388,000 hectares, especially in the period of watering. First of all, I want to remind you that the amount of watering space expressed by Mr. Prime Minister is 1,60,000 hectares written in the action plan and in his heated speech in Diyarbakir. What's the minister's number as a success? It has increased the area of 273,000 hectares to 378,000 hectares. What's the difference? 105 hectares. So it's not even a tenth of the amount that's being targeted. I mean, mercy! Now, to make a simple calculation, when did the action plan begin? In 2008. If we include 2008, it's been exactly six years. Since the watering area in six years is 105 thousand hectares, the amount of watering will open in one year, 17,000 hectares. Let's keep doing the math. According to Master's plan, what's the watering ground with the GAP? 1,800,000 hectares. What's the total area that's been watering for 40 years to today? I'm rolling it, 400,000 hectares. What's left? 1,400,000 hectares. What did we find out about the area that we watered a year? 17,500 hectares. Let's round this up to 20,000 hectares. At this rate, how many years can we finish the 1,400,000 hectares that wait to be watered? Let's divide 1 million 400 thousand into 20,000. What's up now? 70, right? The bill is in the middle. This is the summation of our thoughts, of the GAP. Dear lawmakers, the AKP's action and package have been empty, just like other governments before it. From what we've heard, the AKP is now preparing a new plan of action on the GAP; let's just say good luck. I see you ignored my criticism and warnings last year. That's why I'm repeating exactly the same warnings I gave you last year. Don't bother, because you can't finish this project unless your approach to the GAP, the region and the Kurds changes. There is no good will, no solution, no nature, no humanity, and most importantly, there are no Kurds living in that geography. The focus of this project is deception, historical and cultural slaughter, political rant, energy, exploitation, dear friends. As long as that understanding continues, the vast fertile land will continue to be salted and barren. As long as that understanding continues, the farmers who are in need of electricity will wear out the doors of execution because of the wells he opened because he could not carry the water next to him to his field. Most importantly, as long as this understanding continues, the spiritual bond of millions of Kurds who have had no place in the project and have been tired of being deceived for years will be exhausted. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit05spe0412par0287	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0412par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, Abdulkerim Gök, MP of Şanlıurfa who has asked for a word in his behalf.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0413par0006	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on the budgets of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Economics in 2014. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in line with their 2023 targets, I would like to express that we experience the joy and pride of moving one step at a time towards these goals. Member states of the European Union, as the United States, the gross world economy revampes the growth figures downwards, the 4.4 growth figures explained in our country are already giving us the good news that we will be able to achieve the annual number in the coming process. When we look back, especially the most important speakers before us had the impression that we were talking about another country's economy, because we were all, as well as our friends, when we went abroad, as in many international organizations, the heads of state and presidents of these people have always asked: "To what do you, especially in the economy, owe your success, how do you do it?" Right, in that sense, our economic development at both macro and micro level is increasing, but we know it's not enough, and in that direction, we are very concerned about the number of growths. When we look at the trends that support this, we see that we are at a very important point in exporting. Our friends talked about it, and our most important limit there is our current deficit, but the main reason for our current deficit is our energy deficit here. If we also review our energy policies, today, especially if the countries that evaluate this in terms of energy policies are modeled, hopefully, with important decisions, once we put our energy policy on track, we will consider our current deficit to be a very economical gain at an important point. I'd like to celebrate not only in the economic sense, but also the Minister of Development and valued bureaucrats who carry us to an important place at the point of regional development policies that stimulate each province's potentials. I want to say that between 2002-2013, the investment in regional development policies such as GAP, CAP, DOCAP, and KOP -- I want to give it as a figure -- comes up with 57 billion dollars, old money, 57 quadrillion. And that's essentially how much we invest in the region. We spent 20.6 quadrillion dollars on a billion dollars in GAP territory. However, the Suruç Watering Tunnel, which our Prime Minister will open in the coming months, is also very important for the region. I would like to invite Mr. Rider, who was my predecessor, and also our fellow speaker, to the opening. Because from the moment it's over, we've seen that this irrigation project, which is closely concerned with 732 thousand acres, has a very important, vital point in the region. Of course, to what do we owe these developments, how much we owe, we leave them to you and the public. However, I would like to point out that the more we move forward with domestic peace in the country, forward democracy, at the point of fundamental rights, the faster we continue to accelerate in this sense, the faster our development will happen. I mean, the basic gains in our country don't only develop based on economic policy. Today, many countries have not yet survived the global crisis, while we are talking about our short, medium and long-term programs and making significant progress in this sense. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish all of you that the budget of both the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Development should be a blessing to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0414par0017	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Economy Zafer Çağalan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thirty-three minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0021	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute the grand jury. I'm starting by wishing that the budget for the Ministry of Economics of 2014 would bring blessings to our country, our nation. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for all my friends who have expressed their views on our budget in the Plan and Budget Commission, both in the Grand National Assembly General Assembly, who have made assessments and proposals, and again, we will benefit from the criticism, and in this sense, I would like to express my thanks to our dear friends. Yes, many of our friends have expressed their views, looking at the activities of the Ministry of Economy, the activities of the Ministry of Economy, the activities of the Turkish economy, and our activities of the economy in various ways. Of course, it's only natural for the opposition to show the empty side of the glass and explain the empty side. But I'd like to point out that some of the issues that have been stated are not really as stated, but as far as we're concerned, beyond what we're talking about, we all know that there are assessments of Turkey's economy by many organizations around the world, including the IMF, and at this point, I'm going to be very careful to remind you of what Turkey's economic performance needs and what it's said about export performance. Yes, I agree, as a former industrialist, Turkey's economy has to grow. Especially during the period of 2023 Turkey, it is an important goal to reach a national income of $2 trillion and to play in the Champions League. To achieve that goal, of course, Turkey is bound to grow above the average 5 per cent per year. Of course, in the history of the republic, after the formation of the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk republic, we must never put aside the importance of growth figures made during various periods, as well as those expressed by valuable speakers. But it's important to say that, especially in 2008, with the global crisis that began in the world, which became an extremely important crisis in the world, which began as a second crisis in the United States, look, today it will take more time to recover in the European economy, and we would like to remind you that the country of 17 eurozones must have at least five to ten years before 2008 to have its economic performance. However, in particular in the third quarter, I describe the growth of Turkey by 4.4, with the data released the other day, as a four-quarter growth in such an environment. More? I wish I had, but with a 4.4-alarm growth, Turkey today has become the 2nd country in the OECD that has increased its growth in the third quarter, and today, within G-20, Turkey has become the 4th country that has increased its growth most rapidly. These are international data, not my data. We hope that Turkey's economy will grow by close to four per cent, as we pointed out in 2013, in the bid for the Central Future Program -- in fact, the first, pre-revision program. In this sense, Turkey's growth performance is one of the priorities of our government and the Ministry, for example, for Turkey to improve its growth quality. Especially a matter of momentum, growth based on imports, and the current business that this has brought with it... Dear friends, opposition party MPs, I especially want to point out that we agree with you on this issue, and we must always consider the factor that the current deficit can pose a risk for Turkey, even if it is not a risk today. But when we see the current deficit as a result of course, we have to figure out what the reasons for the current deficit are. Cari is not just an open for Turkey. Today, in 189 countries registered to the United Nations, there is a current deficit in 130, and when we look at the current open number in some countries, especially countries, most countries have reached enormous numbers. In this regard, look, the current explanation is related to the United States of America, Britain, France, India, Canada, Australia, Brazil, each of these countries are a stable country. When you say that, explain to me that we don't have to live for the rest of our lives. However, it needs to be known that and I think it's known that in terms of the fight against Cari's explanation, the most fundamental issues of our current deficit have been initiated, especially by my Ministry of the GITES. SEESES, at these meetings in my presidency, all concerned institutions of both public and private sectors have been involved in this work, and we have studied the GCES (SECES) in some of the sectors where we have given the most foreign trade deficits in Turkey. As we studied, we did not X-ray the iron steel industry, the machine industry, the automotive sector, the energy sector, the agricultural sector, the textile and the confection industry, but we did MRI of them. And I have to admit, I've seen a lot of data that I haven't learned in my 27 years of industrialism, that I haven't learned during the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I've seen it through the GITES app, and I've seen that my country has to import $10 billion in iron steel scraps to make iron steel production. With $10 billion in iron steel scrap imports, Turkey is the world's highest, largest importer of iron steel. And why is that? It's because there's no industrial strategy in the iron steel industry from the past, and with the incentives of the past, practices, there's no major road to the iron steel sector, no direction. And at this point, look, $236.5 billion was our 2012 import. $236.5 billion of imports, dear friends, $60.1 billion is the import of energy that Turkey does not own. The remaining $174 billion in imports of iron steel is $10 billion, a result of measures that haven't been taken in the past since the past, due to the misdemeanor of our industry, and haven't been taken in the past. If I give you the same examples for copper, $3 billion in the copper sector, Turkey in the aluminum sector today gives $2 billion; I'm talking to you about the 2012 figures because they're not finalized. Likewise, the automotive industry is the crown of our lives. This year our exports have increased by over 10 per cent in the automotive sector. However, to export in the automotive sector, we import over $5 billion of motors and transport organs to produce. These are not Turkey's problems today, but the issues from the past that the industry has caused, and in the same way, in part, when we look at it in the sector, Turkey gives this current deficit, this foreign trade deficit because of them. Well, we've made our determination, and the important thing is to make that determination. After the detection, the treatment, the solution to this, the production of this, what's the cure, we've done a lot of work on it. The Enterprise Information System industry inventory, which was built in 2008 during my Ministry of Industry, has a first work feature in Turkey. Again, it's a very important infrastructure, data, in this sense, that we've started the GITES study that we've started, and we've been digging through six sectors to figure out where our imports came from. I agree with your ideas, which depend on imports and imports in industrial production, and I don't deny it, but dear friends, it's not the problem of recent years; it's the result of the creation of the wrong industry from the past, the lack of the industry. How do we fix it? The biggest element we had was the investment incentive system. We brought in the investment incentive system specifically and installed it on top of these. Some of the dear friends gave a speech, and they said, "The incentive system is regional." In regional incentives, Adana was number two, and another province I don't know, three, four, five, five, six, and different places when it's in the organized industrial zone. I want to express to you in particular that the new investment incentive system is Turkey's most ambitious, generous investment incentive system that has ever existed, and today is a system of investment incentives that is carefully, with interest all over the world. What is it? In a world conjunctural environment, although the investment incentive system has come to life, dear friends, today, in our investment incentive system, starting from June 20, 2012, when we look at the same months of the previous period, the same years, we see a significant increase in incentives, and so far, by the time of June 20, 2012, the new incentive system comes in. I'd like to give you the documents and figures of the 108.5 billion investment incentive document on both sectors and regions, and when we're setting up the new incentive system, we didn't just do a regional incentive system, especially for my friends to get attention about it, we've structured the new incentive system on five legs: we've structured our general incentive system, we've built our system of big-scale projects incentives, we've built our strategic investment incentive system, and we've established what we call priority incentives, and we've established a new investment incentive system that hasn't been implemented for the first time ever, and most of all, in the sectors where Turkey has given the most of all, it's wide-scale, it's going to reduce the market, especially in the open sector. At this point, I'd like to report to my friends, dear friends. As of November 30, 2013, we came from June 20, 2012, and the primary incentives in the incentive system were 15 percent of all incentives. The share of regional incentives is only 29 per cent, and the main goal of regional incentives is the main goal; the most needed effort is to design a region that will strengthen the competitiveness of intensive sectors, especially in the Far East pressure, and a regional incentive system has been built, and while the regional incentive system is being built, sectoral priorities, weights are taken into consideration. In addition, large projects include 4 per cent, strategic investments 12 per cent. As of today, the strategic investment incentives from our Ministry for 12 and a half billion dollars of strategic investment have been tied together, and look, with these investment documents, I'm talking about sectors in the chemical sector -- especially in which we've been most open -- have been talking about significant investments in the energy sector, and when these investments are tied to today's incentives for $12.5 billion, when they turn from investment into production, look, only in the chemical sector, only $8 billion, in the refinery sector, the chemical sector would have an additional $1 billion, $9 billion, when the chemical sector would be reduced. What do we do? $60.5 billion, as I said last year, we have to pay for energy imports, but we didn't see it as a destiny. We have made our incentive system, our primary incentives very important in this sense, and in the primary incentives, we have implemented the same incentive system, whether it should become industrial with the RD project, whether it should be produced in Adana, whether it should be done in Kahramanmarash, whether it should be done in Tucson, whether it should be done in Istanbul or in Ankara, right away. The purpose of these things, as I put it, has made important decisions that we call a priority, both in medicine and in the pharmaceutical sectors, especially in the automotive sector, and again, the energy sector that causes the most current deficits, that will reduce both external dependence and the deficit. With the practices we've done, today, we support local coal investment in electricity production with the assistance of the 5th district, no matter where it is in Turkey. Our cause here is that we are no longer giving natural gas... any more incentives based on imported coal, and with these applications, particularly in the energy sector that we've done, we're implementing the 5th district supports to the mines, no matter where the mine is, and especially the high calorie coal, iron ore that hasn't been given in the past, for the first time we've covered incentives in this period, and hopefully, with them, together, in terms of the current, in terms of Turkey, in terms of payability. Of course, knowing that you all know very well, I've been an industrialist for twenty-seven years. You can't finish an investment in a refinery that you made today, an industrial investment that you started today, in a year like that, in two years. The way these are mixed in with blood, the way they start paying themselves back, the way they're actively inside the economy, no matter where you look, after three years, after four years, it's only going to help. I specifically say that we need to be a little bit more patient about this, and we put strategic investments in this incentive system in particular, and we cared about the construction of products that Turkey had to import from the outside, and we set a 40 per cent value requirement. I brought a literary thing and expressed it every chance I got. Today, Turkey made 1 kilogram of exports for $1.58 last year. When I started this first study in 2009, when I came into my first state ministry, the unit export of Turkey at that time was $1.19. When we come from 2009 to the end of 2012, there is a 36 per cent increase in export units kilograms. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. This was a study we did to make the identification. Why? Unfortunately, Turkey, as you said, both in industrial production and in exports, it doesn't produce high-end, high-tech, innovation, RD. Who doesn't? He doesn't do industry, but we also have to emphasize that there was a structure in the past 2007, before I was an industrialist, where there was high inflation in Turkey, where there were high protection walls, friends, industry, look, for no time at all, RD, innovation, technology, high level value because whatever you did, whatever you did, there was a structure in the store, in the factory, that brought 67% per month to its property on its shelf. When inflation fell into one household in Turkey, the industrialist then began to realize innovation, RD, research, added value. So we're trying to work on all of our construction, all of our incentive systems, especially these. I'd like to say again that what we've come to about exports, friends, is an extremely important point. See, today, European imports are shrinking by 6 per cent, while Turkey's exports to Europe have increased 5.6 per cent, European imports have increased from Turkey, and, on the other hand, exports have increased in both the African and Asian Pacific region. Today, there is nowhere in the world where no product of Turkey has entered, thank God. We have a structure that exports to 237 customs areas. More than 20,000 products produced in our country go as exports to 237 customs areas and countries around the world. What wasn't done -- last year, in my speech, I said here -- there was only Micronesia and Nauru -- and, thank God, this year, we exported to Micronesia and Nauru. At this time, there are no markets left in the world without Turkish products, thank God. In doing so, we have increased exports in 80 percent of 97 chapters in exports. Due to the conjunctural development in our exports, we may not be able to get the numbers we want, but at least we're doing important work on not going back under the revised Midterm Program. Last month, when we looked at the statement of export troops in November, November was the month of the highest export of all time, $13.8 billion was exported in a month. I would also like to express my gratitude to all exporters and industrialists who produce and export in Turkish industry. And on the other hand, while Turkey is increasing the exports of goods, I hope that, hopefully, December exports -- if we look at the figures today -- will significantly increase Turkey's export configuration in the coming period, because in December, Turkey, hopefully, will have a record of 13 days of exports and most exports in the same period last year, as much as 22 per cent of this year's previous month, compared to November, which we have set a record of Novembers, and will have a 6 per cent increase in the United States. I'm told you're not talking about Islam. Friends, I take the accusation unfairly. Since the day I came on duty, after 2009, I've broken it by heart. I have a structure that will have the courage to talk about imports, as I speak about exports. Once the import numbers are clear every year, at the end of January, after all year's import data is released, I'm going out in front of the press, and I'm telling you one by one about an hour and a half and two hours of importing, we have nothing to be ashamed of importing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0416par0041	Mr. Secretary, you're right, but some of the ministers don't have his report.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0042	But what I'm trying to say here is that Turkey will do its imports, of course, but its import structure bothers us more than you do, and what's important about this is not just accepting this disease, but designing the systems that will fix it. But, friends, again, I'm telling you that if we bring in a bill for policy that hasn't been done on imports in years, unregistered measures, faulty practices, we make mistakes, we make mistakes. We explain import numbers every chance we get, and we continue to explain, so no one has to worry about that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0417par0043	It's been 11 years!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0418par0044	Eleven years, eleven years!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0045	Import figures are already being announced, and everyone following the customs administration, at the end of each month, the Ministry of Customs, the Undersecretary of Customs and, on the other hand, we all see the import numbers transparently.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0417par0046	Why can't he go into the Prime Minister's speech? It just won't go in.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0047	No one's hiding these numbers, no one's hiding those numbers. There's no point in hiding these numbers, there's no point in hiding them, but again, if you're asking me, why are there so many numbers in Italy? If you're asking me, it's the result of the wrong policies taken in the past.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0419par0048	Exports from you, imports from others?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0049	What I want to come up with is this, no matter what happens, my dear friends, I want to make this clear.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0420par0050	There's something in the computer programs that erases imports right now! There's a virus!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0051	Look, Turkey may look different for you, but I told you again, today the IMF especially sees Turkey as the fourth largest country in the world to increase its growth in 2013 in the first 30 economies. Turkey's brand value has recently increased to $688 billion, according to a statement recently released by the Brand Finance agency. I think we should know whether we're in power or opposition, whatever we are, that we should all be proud of them together, and at this point, Turkey continues to receive international capital from one side. In an environment where international capital is severely narrowed around the world, where a lot of investors are on the brakes on this subject, in the era of decision-making, look -- in 1984 Turkey began to receive the first foreign capital -- the total that came from 1984 to 2002 was only $14.6 billion in all those years. But, friends, I'm telling you something today: today, when the AK PARTY came to power in 2003, the amount of direct investment that has come to our country so far has exceeded 132.5 billion dollars, and I am proud of it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0421par0052	You sold the companies, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0053	And they came to different sectors.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0421par0054	Sell Topkapi Palace, more capital will come!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0055	He's partnered with the company. We're partnering with the company, friends. Why are we ashamed?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0421par0056	Buying the Dolmabahçe Palace will bring more capital!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0057	And I support my businesses as the Ministry so that Turkish firms can take out businesses and become partners in business. If Turkey is doing these things, we need to applaud these achievements, and as many have expressed here, sir, what sectors do they come to? (E, when we look at the financial and banking sector of 32 per cent of this, finance and banking sector; especially Turkey's political stability and confidence and structural reforms -- see, in the manufacturing sector, in the energy sector, in the telecommunication sector, in the retail sector, Turkey's total investment continues to be significantly internationally invested. Dear friends, in particular, again, there was one thing a friend or two of mine mentioned. If I don't tell you, I'll have a problem. Just a moment ago, our dear brother, who had served in our previous ministry, said that over 50 million liras were encouraged by the Prime Minister's office. That's not your statement, is it, Mr. Haluk? He's saying it. You said it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0422par0061	Whatever I said, it's in the records.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0062	And I say, look...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0422par0063	There's been an investigation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0064	And I'm saying that as Minister of Economy...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0422par0065	There was an investigation, and I showed it to you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0066	Whoever's lying, it's slander and slander. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0422par0068	There's been an investigation.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0069	There's only one place where incentives are decided, where incentives are given, and the Ministry of Economics is the Department of Incentivisation General Directorate, friends. If there's a form of encouragement anywhere other than the Ministry of Economic Development General Directorate, if there's a place to offer it, I'm ready to step down today. Look, I'm talking so hard. But, otherwise, the one who can't prove it will also resign from this place. Guys, look, when we say something, please, let's not hurt our institutions, let's not lower the values of our institutions. The PM's got nothing else to do, so he's gonna deal with the incentive papers?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0423par0071	Yeah, didn't he tie all the real estate to him? The miners are waiting.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0072	And at this point, it's clear where the incentives are, how they're connected, and what our friends who work there are doing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0423par0073	Isn't all real estate up to the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0074	Friends, we've just had our opinion on unemployment by various parties.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0424par0075	Everything's stopped.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0423par0076	It's all stopped! The miners are miserable. The welders are taking it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0077	Say what you want about unemployment. Look, in the last four years that we've been through, 5,200,000 people have lost their jobs in Europe in an environment of global crisis in the world, thank God, our country has provided more than 6 million jobs. Our country's latest unemployment figures are 9.8 per cent. Of course, that number is high. Today, however, Turkey's unemployment rate is lower than the eurozone and the European average.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0425par0078	There's a crisis out there. Compare it to developing countries.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0415par0079	And at this point, we're going to increase the work we're going to do much more, much more, with Allah's permission, we're going to develop it. I want to underline this: there is no such thing as vulnerability in the Turkish economy. Turkey's economy, thank God, is rock solid, solid. For once, I want to express it from here in particular, so that everyone knows it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0426par0082	So let's press "Gaza." You say "Mr. Secretary."
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0427par0083	Step on the gas?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0428par0084	You must have been a gas man.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0085	On the other hand, friends, let me tell you, in exports, we're trying to run the structure of exports, we're trying to change the structure of exports. However, today, high-tech is not the problem of high-velocity exporters, it's the problem of the industrialists. At this point, both with the R&D incentive law that we passed in 2008, and with many applications done by my Ministry and various ministries, we are especially giving high value to our industry, high technology, innovation, very important work to learn about R&D, and support for that. What's at the very beginning of the work we've done as the ministry is that it's actually becoming a brand, and unfortunately, a friend of mine has just criticised me -- and we're willing to accept any criticism -- about TURQUALTY and the brand Turkey, today, in Europe, in the world, will be a brand, hopefully. I mean, let's just bring in non-branded companies in eight years and make it a brand in two or three years. Don't be in a hurry.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0430par0087	Not two or three years, 11 years, 11 years.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0088	We gave TURQUALTY five years, and then, after I was in office at the Ministry, it started in 2005 -- friends -- and I kept it going for five years. Now, Turkey is not only an exporter of goods, Turkey is also an important service exporter. Today, Turkey has an important structure that receives 1 per cent of the world's service exports. Last year, Turkey exported $43.2 billion in services. In contrast, when you put in its imports, Turkey played an important role in reducing the current deficit, giving more than $20 billion in service foreign trade alone. In terms of tourism -- accept it or not -- today, Turkey -- thankfully, I proudly say it all over the world -- is the 4th and 6th largest destinization of Europe in tourism, the 6th largest of the world. Thirty-six million tourists have come to our country with the natives, and our tourism revenues are close to $29 billion. I'll tell you something else you'll be happy to know that service exports have increased by 10 percent this year, as of the last ten months. In our history -- God willing -- we're going to get 48 billion dollars in service exports, which will do the most service exports this year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, we're very important in the logistics sector as we do these efforts in tourism. In addition, the industry in the development sector has become a lesson to the world. In this industry, which I know very well, look, it has become the 2nd in the internationally employed countries in the world after China -- thank God -- I'm proud to say it. And Turkey began its first contractor job in 1972 in Libya. In the 30 years leading up to 1972-2002, the Turkish contractor's business in the world was only $44 billion. You know what happened today? As of today, Turkey's construction sector has reached $264.7 billion in 102 countries, 7.300 projects.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0431par0094	You did this, didn't you?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0095	$44 billion in contractors in 30 years, in the last 30 years, 1972-2002...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0431par0096	You did it, didn't you?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0097	Our people will decide who did it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0431par0098	Did you do it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0099	$44 billion in 1972-2002, our contractors are the only contractors... Of course we did.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0431par0101	Someone else does the imports? That's what you do, if you love God!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0102	With all the international travel you've criticised, with our Prime Minister, Mr. President, our delegations, and Turkey's reputation increased, Turkey's creditability increased. Is that what the contractor business did all of a sudden?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0431par0103	So you're saying your face is yours for the sake of the water?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0104	Let me tell you, fellas, maybe when I tell you this, God knows that in a couple of countries, you've just got jobs and you've got over $265 billion. Turkey took a $44 billion job as a contractor in 30 years, and last year, it took a $27 billion contractor job in a single year. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Now, let me underline this:
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0431par0105	You're giving it to the allies in there. I think he's getting allies inside, so let's take him outside.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0106	The head of our sector, we are honored by the effort of our industry. Today, however, Turkish firms are now giving the world the world's most ambitious projects about airports, and especially in infrastructure projects, the Warsaw subway is doing business in many parts of the world. The contractor sector, thank God, represents and waves our glorious, glorious flag in 102 countries. The construction industry is opening doors to close to 200 percent sectors. The contractor sector is creating a significant added value. These are all important performances that we've performed in service exports. In addition, there are one or two other things I'm going to tell you in my time, of course, that our Ministry's mission is just investment, incentive, foreign capital, service trade in the economy, as well as imports, not exports; there are free zones within the other area of our ministry. Today, in our 19 free zones, Turkey has achieved an important export success, which is worth nearly $2 billion a year. And with the work we've done on the free zones, hopefully, we'll bring to our General Assembly an important bill that will further promote this with the new generation of free zones. In addition to this, our ministry is doing a very important work to protect the rights of our industry, our local industry, our local industrialist, our manufacturer, who is producing in Turkey, who will prevent wrong practices against Turkey's domestic markets in imports, especially in terms of product safety. In particular, I'd like to finish my speech by saying, yes, there's a lot to say. My dear friends have said a lot. Look, I'm not offended by any of what you're saying, but I just want to say, dear friends, we have to accept the truth. It's no use to any of us to show the truth wrong, just to hurt this country. The success of this country from the outside, today, the arrivals themselves. Next week, constantly, heads of state from many countries around the world, prime ministers, will visit our country as they did in the past. Each of them comes with 50 people, 100 people, 200 people, to bring in the business world and do business in the Middle East, to do business in North Africa, to see that the way to invest in those areas is through Turkey, thank God.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0432par0111	They've never been here before, it's like it's the first time they've been here.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0112	I'm proud of it, I'm not saying this in the name of politics.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0432par0113	They've never been here before, it's like they just found out.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0429par0114	However, I have expressed the level of Turkey's arrival and the particular work Turkey has done in this regard. While I wish our budget would bring blessings to our ministry, to our nation, to our country... Turkey is just a country in its region, which receives direct foreign investments in its country, thank God, and we support our firms to invest abroad with a new study, supported by our Ministry in the new era, and so far the investments made by Turkish companies abroad are near 31.5 billion, 32 billion dollars. Now there are $6 billion in Turkish investments in Africa; go to Eurasia geography; there are investments in Turkish companies that are close to $10 billion. Yeah, when we're doing the GITES study, especially in our products that we can't produce, which we can't produce, but we can't, we want our companies to go away, to become global brands, to be all over the world, and to produce them. I, again, express my gratitude to those feelings and thoughts, to our budget, to the criticisms of my ministry, to the reviews, to the suggestions, to the things they've been told. I express it over and over again that we are going to benefit from the useful ones, and when we greet you with love and respect, I wish each and every one of us the next year would bring health, health, pleasure, and good years, and I salute you all with love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0119	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0434par0120	Mr. President, sir, Mr. Secretary has said that the past years have been wrong about the import of iron steel. But in 2011, the Prime Minister opened an iron steel plant in Alexander. So I guess they made the biggest contribution in their time. They do it and complain.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0121	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0435par0122	Mr. President, our crown is an integrated facility built in Alexander. I'm talking about people who don't already have 70 percent integration, who produce junk. Alexander is important to us.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0123	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0436par0124	Is it working? Where does it work? It's not junk from outside, it's stuff, it's galvanizing. Want to make a bet?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0435par0125	Galvanization, galvanization... we're talking iron steel, we're talking investment.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0126	Mr. Secretary, please, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0437par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0128	Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0437par0129	Mr. Secretary was referring to me on the matter of investments. I said those words, I want to answer them.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0130	Mr. Ayhan, we don't have that kind of procedure to respond to.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0437par0131	But he did, because he told me.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0438par0132	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0433par0133	No, what did he say, Mr. Ayhan?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0437par0134	What else is he gonna say? He's mean, he's dishonest. He said, what else is he going to say?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0439par0135	Who? Did I say that? Did I say that?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0440par0136	No, no, Mr. President, no such statement was ever used.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0441par0137	No, please, just a second...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0440par0138	Just Mr. President, the statement the Minister used, did you say so, did you say so? He said so, that's all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0442par0139	The Minister has a lawyer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0441par0140	Mr. Secretary will tell you what he said.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0443par0141	No, I'm not going to say anything bad, Mr. President, I'm not going to lengthen it, I'm going to explain it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0441par0142	No, it's a good thing, not a bad thing. What did he say, Mr. Secretary? He didn't mean you, as far as I can tell.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0443par0143	I said: over $50 million in incentives, investments are waiting in the Prime Minister's office. I said that. Mr. Secretary responded to that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0444par0144	So I asked you, and I said, "Are you telling me?"
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0441par0145	Of course he will, so he'll answer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0444par0146	I meant the one who said it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0445par0147	No, but he said he didn't... prove it. What's up, there, he said it. I'll tell you, Mr. President, I'll tell you one thing, I won't.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0444par0148	Mr. President, let them take a look at the transcripts. I didn't use anything like that.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0446par0149	Mr. Ayhan, there's still time. No, I'll ask for the transcripts, there's a deadline, and if he did, I'll make the same promise as you said.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0445par0150	Mr. President, he told me. I'm not going to extend it, I'm going to say something, I'm going to quit.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0446par0151	Go ahead, then. Here you go. It's already in the report.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0445par0152	Mr. President, in Article 26 of the Oil Act, it seems that incentives have already gone out of the area of the Ministry of Economics; this is one. The Minister knows, he doesn't; it's the law. Second: The prime minister's office has launched an investigation into the person who left, regarding Investment Support and Promotion Agency. The Prime Minister has approved that. The court also has a follow-up, and has taken a look at it. That's what I want to say. I don't know what the Minister was so sensitive about.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0447par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0448par0156	No, please, Mr. Secretary. We're not doing a QA here. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0449par0158	So he's lying to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0450par0159	You'll see when you read the transcripts, I don't use that word. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0448par0160	On behalf of the government now, Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz has asked for a promise. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0163	Mr. President, I have received a pledge regarding the budget of the Ministry of Development and the budget of our other relevant institutions, TİİK, GAP, DAP, KOP, DOKAP Regional Development Administrations. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all lawmakers, to all groups who have expressed their views, criticism of our activities, regarding our ministry during this session. Of course, there may be ideas that we agree with, that we disagree, but in any case, of course, we have to consider them all in our work. And, of course, I'm going to try to answer some of them in the context of this conversation. On this occasion, I would like to thank my colleagues at the Ministry of Development, at TÜİK, in our regional development administrations. If we're bringing these budgets here, if we're running these studies, there's hundreds, thousands of people involved, there's participation, and I want to thank them all in your presence. Our Ministry of Development is a new ministry, but on the other hand, it's an old ministry. It's a ministry based on our State Planning Agency's experience reaching half an age, and it's trying to take it further. This is our Ministry, which has put in a lot of work this year. On the one hand, we've prepared our Ten Years of Development Plan, and on the other hand, we've performed our Izmir Economic Congress in İzmir, we've continued the technical work of our Central Time Program, our annual programme, our investment programme. Besides, right now, we're working on regional action plans. We're working on a new information society strategy again with all our friends. We're still working on detailing the application programs that will allow us to implement our development plan better, mapping the roads. I really want to thank everyone who contributes to these hard work. I want to start again, as I do in many conversations. Because we always, unfortunately, have to repeat it. Development isn't just about the economy. Development, of course, has a strong economic dimension, but it's not possible to describe development with the economy alone without dimensions such as social dimensions, environmental dimensions, cultural dimensions, even a political team, the state of law, basic rights. There's been some criticism here about development agencies. I believe those criticisms were made because this concept of relief was not being acted upon. Supporting a project on the environment is in the development agency's line of duty, of course. Because one dimension of the concept of development is the circumference of our language of intergenerational balance. It creates social issues.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0452par0169	What's the Minister of Environment doing then? Have the Minister of Environment do it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0170	If we didn't think so, we'd call them economic agencies. We didn't prefer the name of the economic agency, we called them the wake-up agency, because we're moving from a broad development perspective. We form our institutions in a sustainable human-focused development that includes all these different elements in both the center and the region, and we run our programs in this framework.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0453par0171	Tell that to the Minister of Environment, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0172	Turkey's distance from this point of view in the last ten years has also been evident, and its distance from development is obvious. Ten years ago, 11 years ago, there was a country with a $230 billion magnitude, economics size, $36 billion exports, a national rate of R&D spending, a 0.53 percent rate of those low national revenues, a large amount of debt payment, interest payment budget; unemployment was much more dense; there was a country with low employment participation; in the revenue distribution, the Gini coefficient, which measured the revenue distribution of revenues at 0.442%; there was a country whose coefficient was extremely inadequate in between the regions. In this last decade, Turkey has taken really important distances in the economy, in social areas, in the environment, in the field of basic rights and freedoms. Are we exactly where we want to be? Of course not. Do we have much more to do?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0453par0173	You've ruined the environment! What did you do about the environment?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0174	Of course there is, but the distance Turkey has traveled, the distance Turkey has come from, is also seen by the entire world, and it is appreciated by international organisations and by investors. There are three fundamental questions in planning, to simplify: You will know why you're here and where you are; you will know exactly where you want to go, where you want to reach -- but there is a third question -- which is more important than both -- you will know how to go, how to get to the situation where you want to go, how you want to get to it, how you need to know what strategies. In this framework, our tenth Plan is a guiding plan. On the one hand, we have a vision of 2023, you know, we're aiming for a $2 trillion economy, we're saying that our exports should be $500 billion, we're saying that our income per person should reach $25,000; on the other hand, we want our R&D spending to go up to 3 percent, and we want the private sector to go up to 2/3. We have goals in education, in health, in transportation, in many sectors. The means and methods of access are expressed in development plans. In our tenth Plan, we have laid out the fundamental axis of this in the tenth Plan, which our Parliament has adopted. With four basic axes, we'll go to 2023. First -- and for the first time in our plan, look, we brought up the social departments, we said, this was the first time this was done -- qualified human, powerful society. We have to start a human-focused development from human capital. Turkey is not a country that can grow by natural resources, by energy. As a matter of fact, we're an energy-addicted country, and we have to import our energy from the outside. If Turkey is to be developed, it will perform this development in terms of its geography, history, culture, state tradition, and above all, with human capital, equipped, qualified, manpower -- in terms of entrepreneurialism. And for that, of course, I've highlighted the social dimension as the first axis. Our second axis is sustainable high growth. Turkey is now a country that has risen to the upper middle income group. It's not in the bottom income group, it's not under the middle income group, it's in the middle income group, it's in the top band of the middle income group. Hopefully, in the middle term, a country that's running for the upper income group, even at a low level, with the right policies, with stable policies. And in our Tenth Year Plan, we, with this vision, detailed the first five years of our 2023 vision, laid out our road map in detail. I'm really asking you to look at the details of that plan in your spare time. Of course, there may be flaws in everything, there may be more to it, but this plan has been a good plan. With over 10,000 participants, I believe that this plan, with the contribution of all our regions, all of our institutions, all of our sections, is an important reform agenda for Turkey, which has been worked on for two years through extremely involved processes. And I truly believe that this plan will come to life, especially with the reforms our Parliament will bring with its support, with its legal arrangements. When we are based on this vision, sometimes the question is: will Turkey be able to reach it? Will we be able to walk realisticly to the goals that have been set? Look, in the last decade, we have tripled our national income, more than three stories.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0454par0180	At fixed prices, the account...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0181	We've increased our exports more than four times, increased our RD spending by five times more. We predict to increase our national income by 2.5 times in the coming process, and we believe that Turkey can do that. Why do we think that? In the last ten years, despite the global crisis, the average growth has been five per cent, including 0.5 per cent growth in Turkey and Europe today, and 1 per cent growth is celebrated as such successes.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0455par0182	Why are you comparing it to Europe?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0183	...after the last global crisis, in fact, if you look at it on average, it has produced an average growth of over 6 per cent, Turkey. And this year we predicted 3,6, but the last one is a quarter of 4.4; hopefully we'll have a growth that exceeds 3.6. Next year we have a target set that goes five to five percent in the years after that. And despite the global crisis, Turkey has achieved that, despite the global crisis, has increased employment by millions and produced a really important export performance. Our Minister isn't here, but we really need to thank him and his team. He managed to diversify Turkey's markets and improve exports in an environment in which demand is shrinking. Not every country can succeed, Turkey is a country that succeeds. What advantages do we have in the coming process? Unlike the past ten years, we believe that Europe, especially in the middle term, will overcome the effects of the global crisis. This is, of course, a plus element for Turkey, Europe is an important market for us. On the other hand, you all see the political turmoil in our region. We're assuming they'll settle down even more in the midterm. Besides, inflation, look, for years, thirty years has been the fate of this country, but the next process will be a process that will continue the development of Turkey with one-digit inflation. We'll see more of that in the next ten years. Again, in the past decade, we will see more and more the results of our investments in education and RD.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0456par0187	What have you done with education? Have mercy, you've ruined the training.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0188	Education and RD are not short-term investments that produce results from today to tomorrow. In the past decade, Turkey has placed education at number one in its budget year after year, making enormous investments in education from universities to pre-school education. We'll see more of the consequences in the coming period because today's... Look, the United Nations, called the Human Development Index, has an index. There are three factors: economic size, health size, and education; economics, health and education. Do you know how they measure education? They're not based on the training you're giving them today, they're based on the time of the over 25-year-old population in training. So, our human capital they're measuring today is the result of the performance of governments long before us in education. And hopefully we'll see a lot better results in what we're doing today in the next decade, because these are long-term structural policies, not things that will result in two years in a year like this, but if Turkey is setting up its next strategy, development strategy on human capital, then it has to value education and research. So our second axis is in the plan, innovative production, added value, higher production, more technology and more information-based production. Turkey is not a country that can move on with more weight, more ton exports; Turkey is a country that must go to 2023, with more income per unit value, unit property and service. Which makes it necessary to increase the value of addition. Unless, of course, our investments in infrastructure, in transportation, in housing, in health care, are going to contribute to us all the time in the coming process. And finally, the solution process: Turkey has not been able to create a complete peace of mind in the last 30 years, and since there have been conflicts in our specific regions, it has not been able to fully stimulate its potential, especially in private sectors -- it has had to use its resources unnecessarily. With the process of resolving further in the coming process, I think Turkey will find its 2023 vision much more comfortable, given the benefits of the solution process. In the last ten years, we've raised our RD spending from 0.53 to 0.92. We've increased the private sector's share in this, but we're going to have to take it to a much higher level. And our investments have really grown in the process. Look, ten years ago, public investment was only 17 billion Turkish dollars, private 43, totaling $60 billion. We also had an investment in dollars and $40 billion, but when you look at the numbers this year, it's a Turkey where the public invests 75 billion Turkish dollars, where the private invests 240 billion; it's a total of 314 billion. That's like $174 billion. These are the figures that reveal the power of Turkey. In the income distribution, the Gini coefficient has declined from 0.44 to 0.38 in the last decade. I mean, Turkey has both grown and improved income justice. Have we truly achieved income justice? No. Of course, we still have some work to do, but we've also reduced the imbalance in income distribution. Some people criticize, and here it is, during the AK PARTY, the rich became rich. True, the rich have also become really rich, but the low-income have performed more, their revenues have increased, and this is very clear in the measurements with international validity. The public, by the way, has cleaned up quite a bit. Our budget is no longer an interest budget. We have come from a Turkey that spends 85 percent of its tax revenues on interest to a Turkey that spends only 13 per cent of its income, 14/15. Our investment budget, our social spending, has come to a very important point in the budget. After that, Turkey must continue its political stability, budget balances, and spending on human capital and research, in a way that supports this innovative economic structure. It's just that our investments in colleges are obvious. Because of the global crisis, many countries limit their investments like this, while bringing down potential growth, Turkey is positively separated as a country that increases potential growth without sacrificing it in any way. In this general framework, I'd like to address some private issues. One of our congressmen about the courtship asked me what was your target? If I hadn't misunderstood. We never reveal the target of courtship in our documents, dear friends, and I'd like to say it clearly and clearly.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0457par0199	Then how do you calculate national income?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0200	What do we have to guess about any kind of courtship...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0457par0201	Then how do you calculate national income?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0202	Listen, instead of yelling, listen, and then make your comment. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We don't have any guesses about the courtship, we don't have a target, we just have a computational rule. This calculation rule is the same every year, it doesn't change. We get the expected dry, and we use this in our work as a method of computing, in the form of what's being valued, what's being valued, and what's being valued, based on the domestic and international deflatizers. Because we've established the free-worship regime, and we're implementing it, but at times our Central Bank does some of the necessary interventions when the speculative movement is concentrated, when the volatility is increasing, and in other moments of need, of course, but these interventions certainly don't mean that we're giving up the free courtship regime. We're putting the free-worship regime on every policy document, and we're going to keep doing it that way. On the other hand, in this general development perspective, our third axis in the plan is the spatial dimension. The spatial dimension is extremely important; the social dimension is as important as the economic dimension. Building habitable places, protecting the environment, the third axis of our tenth Plan. Here we have regional policies like Gap, DAP, DOC, KOP, environmental issues coming up. The topic of urbanization is also one of the topics under which we consider it. If we really want to be a developed country, we have to create attractive urban environments, a country where people with equipment prefer to live, and that's a good urbanization. It's also one of our basic policies to create cities that are more resistant to disasters, protect city aesthetics, have cultural, artistic infrastructure, and can be lived by a lot of elements from traffic to air quality.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0458par0206	Minister, people live in the ground in East Anatolia.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0207	We've established a ministry in this framework, you know. We're running some very important studies, programs on urbanization, and we're going to continue this in the future. In this regard, we strive to bring our less than average regions closer to average. Of course, we're aware that Turkey is a big country, and indeed there are imbalances between regions. On the one hand, we are moving Turkey to the top at a global level, while on the other hand, we are reducing the imbalances within Turkey. And we've done a lot of work over the last ten years. Now let's not drown too much in numbers. He said our friends, but sometimes we have to give numbers. Look, the following four regions that are below average are the GAP (South Eastern Anatolia), DAP (East Anatolia), KOP (KOP) and DOKAP (East Black Sea Region); in 2002, I mean the percentage of our four regions in total distributable public investments -- I mean, one part of which is undistributable -- only 20 percent of the investments. The rate of investments in our four regions in 2002 is only 20 per cent and only 20 per cent. So, what happened to this cut in 2013? 37.4%. This, this is a very clear indication of the importance of our regional development. Oh, is that enough? Can that suddenly change our territory? Of course not. It's a bit of a savings effect. What we call regional development is also a structural policy, and it's a policy that produces long-term effects. You may not get results like this in a year or three years, but if you insist on continuing this policy, you will surely get results. Look, what was the result of this? For example, just to illustrate: Of course, the migration continues, and there are righteous criticisms, but there is a serious decline in the rate of migration. In 2000, the migration from the GAP provinces was 36.20 in minus 1,000, while in 2011-2012 it declined to minus 7.55. I mean, the migration continues, it's true, but there's been a serious setback at the rate of migration. Hopefully, this will turn out the other way. In order for it to turn back, that is, it's very important that this process of solutions end up with no question in people's minds, no question at all, and hopefully Turkey will succeed. When we do that, we'll see that both the potential of our locals is going to move much faster, and the investments in the private sector are going to be increasing very quickly, and Turkey will be able to use its resources in the field of research, in the field of development. In the last five years alone, at the time of the GAP Action Plan, the employment in our nine provinces has been 282,000 people in the last five years. Can we say it didn't have any effect? See, in the GAP, the number of our first people employed in 2008 was 1,257, while in 2012 the number increased to 1,539. In five years, 282,000 of our people, about 300,000 of our people, have had jobs. I think it's extremely important. Again, in the GAP area, of course, there are many projects. I can't go into the details because time is short here, but I think it's possible for us to send all of our desired deputies, of course, in detail, where, what investments we've made, all of them. And indeed We sent among those who asked questions. With regard to employment, again, in general, I would like to say that Turkey's employment has increased by 5-6 million in the last decade. On the other hand, our turnout to the labor force has increased, and again, recently, we see very serious increases in female employees, in our women's employment and employment. Also, we see that, again, unregistered employment, which is important for the quality of employment, has been severely reduced. Ten years ago, while over 50 percent of the population, unregistered employment has now been reduced to 37 percent, to 35 percent. Again, we see significant increases in the number of paid, paid employees. These are all Turkey's achievements. Of course, a source of unemployment insurance has been transferred to the GAP. That's right, it's been transferred, but not just to GAP, which is there -- if you read the law -- GAP, DAP, KOP, and other regional programs, infrastructure programs...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0459par0213	That's what unemployment insurance is for, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0214	I mean, the law doesn't have just the expression "GAP" in it. We've used this resource to employ regional programs and infrastructure programs. We used it in a global crisis, and we're not using it right now, you know. We didn't touch the employee's share, the employer's share and the public's share -- that's 0.75/i -- and let's just use it and let people get unemployed. Instead of saying, let's invest, people have jobs, people don't have to get unemployment benefits, they don't have to put bonuses on unemployment insurance. As a result, the unemployment benefit has not been reduced lately, but it has increased rapidly. Our policy here is to keep people out of work and help people. Let's not find work. Let's find work for people. It's shaped by understanding.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0460par0215	Is that a good thing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0216	At the time, we made a very smart policy because the cost of investment in the global crisis was much lower, and the cost of investment was very low because the demand was inadequate. The public's investment in infrastructure at the time is a crucial and correct decision in Turkey's success in these recent years. We can see it's true, and we can see it clearly from our growth rate and employment growth.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0461par0217	That's what the unemployment insurance is for!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0218	Of course, I think three elements of regional politics are very important. One is infrastructure. In the last decade, we've made serious investments in what we've called what we call "regressed" areas below the average. We've invested in infrastructure, we've invested in universities, we've invested in hospitals, we've invested in rural areas. On the other hand, we've just established a very powerful incentive system that our Minister has just described, a six-zone system, but when you combine it with a peaceful environment, when you consolidate it... here, I think the biggest incentive is really this solution process, the greatest incentive is the peace environment, to create a safe environment in the investor's mind, where there is no doubt. The private sector makes 80 per cent of Turkey's total investments public, only 20 per cent public. We have to see this reality. Turkey is a country with a market economy, and the private sector actually makes 80 per cent of our total investments. Therefore, if we don't develop private sector investments in these regions, we can't create the prosperity and employment that we want. Therefore, we will continue to be zealous. There's something about the TÜİK (TİK) because I'm running out of time, and before I get to it, the Sosyoeconomic Development Index...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0462par0220	Say something about agriculture and livestock.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0221	I have very little time. And we'll argue again, but I want to finish this. The provinces of the Socioeconomic Development Index, you know, we've been renovated, but we haven't been able to make the counties yet. For one reason, you know, the boundaries of our counties have changed, along with our New Metropolitan City Law. We're going to have to do another study, considering this change in coverage. We're running that study right now, and we want to finish it as soon as possible, but it won't make any sense for us to take out the Sosyoeconomic Development Index of the counties until he's finished. On the other hand, a very important claim has been made about TÜİK (TİK) here today. A number of polls conducted by the TÜİK Strongman have been criticised by going to households to question people's religion, their faith. Mr. Sezgin Godkulu had a question proposal, and I called him and gave him information. The TİK made a written statement on the same day, probably a misinformation, a false source of information, I suppose.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0463par0224	Mr. Bekir Bozdağ told me, sir, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ told me two days ago.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0225	Dear friends, look, here's the question form for the household budget survey. It's not a question of interpretation. Look here...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0463par0226	No, you don't know each other, Bekir Bozdağ told me.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0227	Okay, I'm trying to explain. It's a question form for the household budget survey. Please, after this conversation, let our friends show us where this question is.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0464par0229	Mr. Secretary, the Head of Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0465par0230	There's a question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0231	Absolutely out of the question. So that's how this household is done every year in the budget survey.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0466par0232	It may not be in the budget. Is that research or not?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0233	On the other hand, look, let's not confuse the two things.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0466par0234	What difference does it make?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0235	TÜİK makes official surveys, prepares statistics; it is mandatory, legally mandatory to respond to those statistics, and within those rules, TİK does these surveys, and the household budget survey is such a survey. TO whomever the TÜİK goes, the civic duty must be answered. On the other hand, international institutions or public institutions may have demands from TÜİK. A Ministry, our Ministry of the Family, can demand it, and will make a study of the disabled. Our Ministry of Religious Affairs also asked for the help of the TÜİK (TİK) in a survey conducted by the Ministry of Religious Affairs. THE TIK is in this frame...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0466par0237	That's it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0238	That's an entirely different survey.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0466par0239	Maybe. Do you have these questions or not, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0240	Look, here's his question paper, too. Here's the President of the Religious Affairs polling to conduct his services as a constitutional institution based on scientific grounds, and here's what it says... Absolutely, for once, there's no name asked in this survey, there's no name.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0466par0242	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0243	Take a look here, you can come and examine it. Second, it is absolutely and absolutely not necessary to respond to this survey. Let's not mix these polls with the other polls. Those who want to respond to them, they don't want to answer them; they already write here: See: there's no way to force them to participate in the survey, or to participate in the survey, or to answer some questions. These polls are such surveys. They certainly can't be forced.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0467par0245	Why do you ask, why do you ask?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0246	As a matter of fact, in this survey, the lack of answers is 42 percent. So citizens don't respond if they don't want to.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0468par0247	So, why are you doing a poll with a 42 percent lack of answers?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0467par0248	Mr. Secretary, what's the point? What do you think is necessary?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0249	Here, this is a survey of our Ministry of Religious Affairs, which the TİK has provided a technical support. The religion is a constitutional institution. Like any institution, he collects information about his field while doing his services and tries to do better with it. Here...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0468par0250	secularism is also a principle in the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0251	But look, there's no such thing as pushing people. These issues are very clear and clear here. On the other hand, let me tell you, if he had done this kind of survey to a company on the market, let's say it wasn't TİK, it would have been something much more problematic, I think, because TİK would have had a much more stable system...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0468par0253	Sir, what's it to you? Why are you asking those questions, what's it to you?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0254	...it was a much safer shape, a functioning system. Therefore, this is not the survey of the TÜİK (TİK), it is the survey of the dianetin, it has given a technical support, and it has done so safely. No man's name has been taken, no man has been forced to answer, only those who voluntarily wish to answer this survey have answered, that's all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0469par0255	It's a government survey. It's a government survey.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0256	These two should not confuse these two, these two polls, in very different status, these are two very different surveys, and I'd like to point out in particular.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0470par0257	Mr. Secretary, no one's messing with it, why did you do that? Explain him, him.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0451par0258	By the way, I'm almost out of time. I hereby, again, thank all the valued deputies and all the employees who contributed to these discussions. I wish that 2013 would bring kindness to our country, to our nation, to all mankind. I wish our budget to our nation, to our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0471par0261	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0472par0262	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0471par0263	Mr. President, at the request of the Dianetin, Mr. Secretary stressed in his last statement, specifically that this is not the survey of the TÜİK (TİK), this is the survey of the Dianetin. It means that we are not responsible for this. He made a statement in the sense that it is not our responsibility.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0473par0264	It's not about responsibility, it's what it is.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0471par0265	However, a minister speaking here as a representative of the government must also take responsibility if the Religion has done a survey, if it finds it right. Now, what I'm curious about is, has TİK or Religion ever conducted a survey to find out what faith citizens belong to? If he didn't, which I understand he didn't, why did the Bible need such a survey? I mean, what makes you wonder what kind of faith people belong to, whether they belong to the Alevi faith or not? Mr. Secretary has made no statement about this. I find it absolutely wrong in a secular state for Dianet to have such a survey, especially if a private company had done it, would it have been right? I find it much more dire to explain. I mean, it's like the Bible has to do this survey, but the Bible did a good thing, didn't do it to the private company, and made TÜİK take it. I resent such an understanding.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0474par0268	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0474par0270	Here, explain your position, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0271	So I can't possibly agree with what the group vice president said. Of course, I believe that diabetes is doing the right thing. If all institutions, constitutional institutions, do scientific studies on the field they work in and run their services based on these information, it would be a very modern, modern understanding of government.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0476par0273	Woe to you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0274	There's no way that I can relate to secularity. No human has been forced to express his position in religion and faith here, the constitutional provisions have been fully enforced, even the names of those who answered in the legal framework have not been asked...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0476par0275	Why do you ask? Why do you need to ask?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0276	...because he offers a religious service, a public service.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0476par0277	What will he serve? None of your business!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0278	Is there anything more natural, something more modern, than a more knowledge-based way of running that service?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0476par0279	So will he build a church or a synagogue?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0280	In the dark, I'm going to leave it to your appreciation whether it's better to offer these services without any information, or whether it's more accurate on the basis of healthy information.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0477par0281	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0478par0282	So, Mr. Secretary, are you saying that you're going to serve our citizens of the Faith of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, that you're going to accept their decrees as a sanctuary? Where, in how many numbers, what number will we do, we're doing this survey to identify it. Do you mean?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0283	Now, look, whatever religion is gonna do with that information... I'm not the minister in charge of religion.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0478par0284	But you were defending it just now, you were defending the Diet!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0285	What I'm arguing is, very clearly, please don't draw it away: if every institution, every constitutional institution, in the darkness of its field, shapes its policies, not by producing policies, but by reading information in a healthy way, it's a modern, transparent sense of government. But I agree with you there 100% on the rights of personality. Personality rights must be respected until the end, which is what the world is doing.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0479par0286	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0478par0287	Mr. Secretary, in a secular and democratic state, the state doesn't wonder what religion the citizens, the people who live in that country, need such statistics.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0475par0288	Dear Deputy Director of the Group, there's no such information on the name, on the person, on the person.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0480par0289	Minister, all Muslims are Alevi. All men are well-behaved, and follow the way of Muhammad the Lord. This Religion is ignorant.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0481par0290	Thank you. On behalf of the person, Aykan Erdemir is the MP of Bursa.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0482par0293	Mr. President, I've asked for my word in the eighth round on behalf of my own. I salute the High Council and our citizens. I'm here today not to criticize the government but to praise it, but it will include the objective assessments of the most brilliant scientists raised by Turkey, not by telekinesis. The praises I'm going to mention were published in the December issue of The Savings magazine in an article entitled Turkey's Economics (P.E.) during the AKP period. You're going to say, "How come AKP policies were praised in a magazine called the monthly socialist culture magazine?" There, scientific objectiveism requires giving everyone their dues. Our article has two authors. His first author was Dr. Refet Gürkaynak, professor of Economics at Bilkent University, professor of the United States Central Bank Ben Bernanke, a PhD student at Princeton University, and a genius who later wrote an article together. He's a genius who won the European Central Bank Award for future economists under the age of 36. Our other author is Assoc. Prof. Dr. Selin Sayek Böke, Vice Dean of the Economics Faculty of Economic Sciences at Bilkent University. He is, again, a genius under 35 years of age who received the Award for Perfection in the Global Economics Award given to successful economists by the Institute of the Kiel World Economics in Germany. Look, what our two authors say is that they're dividing 11 years of AKP power, they're calling 2002-2006 a term, 2007-2013 another term. As the main character of the 2002-2006 period, they also see the continuation of the 2001 programme. They consider it a strong program in creating internal consistency, practicality, creditability. They say there's an economic administration that provides macroeconomic balance, that improves the state budget, and they say: "The Republic is filled with the destruction of what a historical government has done, while the AKP government has taken over the government's program before it. To stress that he did this not only because of necessity, but also with statements that gave credibility to the program. Yes, 7.2 per cent growth between 2002-2006 is above 6.9 per cent of the world, which is the average of developing countries. Ali Babacan, who worked for this success, really deserves a thank-you from his teammates, especially. However, between 2007-2012, Turkey's growth falls to 3.5 per cent, while the average of developing countries remains at 6 per cent. How does a success story produce such a failure? These two scientists also sought the answer to this question, and between 2002 and 2006, the macro-economic policy of good economics has been removed, and the institutional gains of that period have been exceeded by the government taking over all kinds of institutions and making up the legal structure. To fuel the demand, debt, vulnerability, the current has been auctioned off. Turkey has been moved from the state debt cliff to the gap of private debt. They say and add: The sign of the AKP period is construction, which has a natural consequence of both the efficiency of creating and dispersing and creating and distributing and creating jobs as well as the high demand created. They warn us because the construction balloon swells, and they say that in the first half of 2013, 60 percent of the Council of Ministers' decisions are related to development. They add again: The average facial measurement of its construction licenses has increased by an average of its average of 100 percent in 2007-2012, compared to the 2002-2006. It is always ignored after the next election, when building buildings does not increase the country's production capacity, and demand and especially the debt that comes out when construction is being fueled so much. If you ask them, what should we do? Of course, they advise everyone to increase savings, increase participation in the workforce, increase the level of education and quality. In the short term, they say you have to do expensive structural reforms, and in the long term, you have to take steps to increase production capacity and avoid vulnerability, and they ask: is there political will and will? This question is the question of our people: do you have political will and will in ten years? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0483par0302	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the eighth round are complete. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Ten minutes is ten minutes to answer. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0484par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Development: Mr. Minister, on November 14, 2013, a farmer is silenced trying to explain his problem in a meeting at Konya Chumra, and he says: "I will speak. Is this your democracy? 1,500 lira sunflower is 900 lira. And the diesel went up to $4,500. How did you respond to these words? Will your story of success in the field of agriculture continue? Is this farmer troubled or a provocateur? I'd like to ask the Minister of Economy: Mr. Minister, Çukurova airport will be Turkey's second largest airport. What's the latest on this airport? Is there a credit problem? What percentage of this investment, based on May 28, 2013, has been completed so far? When will it be fully operational, when will the project be completed? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0485par0310	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0486par0312	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister of Economy told me like water, if I think there's nothing in Turkey, but I'm going to ask you this: Now, how much imports have increased in ten years? How much did exports go up? Between this import and export, how much is our foreign trade deficit according to these current prices?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0485par0314	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0487par0316	To my friend...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0485par0317	No, Mr. Akar, the question cannot be handed over, sir. Ask me, or I'll continue.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0487par0318	No, but...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0485par0319	Please, if you're gonna ask, you're gonna ask.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0487par0320	Okay, go ahead, then.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0485par0321	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0488par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to remind Mr. Minister of Economics that two years ago at the Seyhan Hotel, he stated that Adana was also his minister and that I am coming to Adana with a $1 billion investment. Why is this opposition MP against us? We've been waiting two years for that $2 billion investment, Mr. Secretary, waiting for that investment. Second: The Minister of Development has just told us, and we have established a powerful incentive system. When we are truly the most industrially developed city in Turkey because of the agricultural industry of Adana, it is devastated by your encouragement. The factories are now closing in Adana. Adana's number one in unemployment. What kind of practice is this? I mean, the encouragement that you brought to the ground in Adana, I'm being very clear. So that's what the industrialists are saying. Mr. Secretary is on his way down to Adana Airport, where he's probably meeting with the industrialists. So clear the way for this Adana. For ten years, you have shed blood upon Adana, in the time of your judgment.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0489par0326	Thank you. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0490par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Economics: Kastamonou, my constituency area recently, has been published by your party's officials in the local press, and our province of Kastamunu Inebolu has been given good news of the establishment of a free zone. Is there any work being done by your Ministry on this? I'd like to ask the Minister of Development: How much taxes has been imposed on Kastamon (Kastamon) in the last five years, and how much investment has been provided in our region except the municipalities?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0491par0331	Thank you. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0492par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President mentioned in the House's opening address that you had 82 cents of imports for every dollar of exports we made. Where do we come from two and a half years later, did these imports increase or decrease in exports? What's the current rate in 11 years? How did you finance this current deficit? How much does this financing cost us? I'm also asking our Minister of Development the same question as Mr. Emin Çınar. How much tax has Bursa been taxed in the last five years? How much did you invest in the central budget in Bursa? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0493par0337	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0494par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to ask Mr. Development Minister: Mr. Minister, one of Turkey's biggest problems -- as you know very well -- is that I follow with appreciation the financial reading problem and your sincere work in this field, but I have a request from your government for nearly two years: Turkey's implementation of the financial reading exam under the PISA exams, and thereby measuring our level of financial reading as a necessary lesson in training. The cost of this test is about 30,000 euros, as far as I know. Can I ask you what the real cost of this test is, and how much do you think it will cost Turkey in the long run if they don't take the test for 30,000 euros or 50,000 euros? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0495par0342	Thank you. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0496par0344	I'd like to ask both of our ministers: their talks had criticism of the past, but when we look at today, we see that our industry is melting in competition and exports are falling further and further back in technological density. In 2002, the share of high-tech products in total exports went from 6.2 per cent to 3.7 per cent in 2012, and the share of technology in exporting under the middle has increased from 22.8 per cent to 31.5 per cent in the same period, so we made low-tech products. Turkey has been exporting more heavy, but expensively light products over the course of time. So the development of the economy has become increasingly bad; the numbers show it, what do you mean by that?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0495par0345	Thank you. Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0497par0347	Mr. Yilmaz, as development agencies were established, one of the main reasons is to benefit from the European Union's funds and the European Union's grants. In 2006-2012, 75 per cent of 1.5 billion incomes were central incomes, 25 per cent local incomes. The EU grants didn't come in? If so, how many European Union grants did they use in 2006-2012, development agencies? One quick question is about the Tenth Development Plan. Long-term strategy hasn't been set this time. You're always talking about Turkey's 2023 targets, and I've been looking for this a lot, but I can't find an official government document. Are the goals you mentioned to be the party goals set by the AKP? How do I access this document, where do I find it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0495par0349	Thank you. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0498par0351	Mr. President, I'd like to ask our Minister of Development first. According to the sources of growth in Turkey's economy, total efficiency has declined in both the 2007-2012 and the 2013 forecasts. What is the cause of this situation? My second question: how many people are employed in the public sector as subcontractors? I'd like to bring both questions to our Minister of Economy. Mr. Secretary, you've stopped publishing statistics that show the dependency of imports of interim exports under the Interim Process Administration. Why did you leave this? Do you plan to re-run these statistics? Another question is: Do you plan to review the Inner Processing Regime and remove it, in a technical and self-sustaining way? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0499par0357	Thank you. Mr. Ozgimi...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0500par0359	My question is to the Minister of Development. Mr. Secretary, I've given you two motions for questions, you haven't answered in about a year and a half. One of them is: Does the Secretary General of the Çukurova Development Agency, which started on January 12, 2012, have 70 points on the language-level detection test that makes public personnel, or has an international document with validity? You can't open a file and look at it for a year and a half? This friend of ours has been signing autographs this whole time. Secondly, you know, there's been corruption and abuse at the Çukurova Development Agency. Two of our friends have returned to the state, and they've been paid severance pay. A year and a half later, I discovered it. If I hadn't told you, it wouldn't have been taken back. Does collecting money from these friends eliminate the criminal element of those who pay for it?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0501par0364	Thank you. Mr. Baluken? No. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0502par0367	Thank you. Sir, during the AKP period, how many billion dollars have been reduced year-on-year savings per year, what is cumulative? Mr. Calayan, how many export requests have been asked for from goods that are subject to exports of iron? You've stated that you've put exports on leave. Did you or did you not ask for export permission? Besides, you said you'd set up private economies abroad. I thought you built private economies in countries. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0503par0372	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0504par0374	Mr. President, dear Regents, first of all, I salute you all again with love and respect. I'll try to answer the questions asked in five minutes, and what I can't, as I've always been, I'll answer in writing, not to leave the questions of all our MPs complete. So I forgot at the end of my speech, to thank our staff, industry, exporters, anyone who puts rocks on stone in this country, and especially our friends, they talk about imports, exports. I want to say that Turkey's exports in 2002 were $36 billion, its imports were 52 billion; Turkey's exports in 2012 were $152.5 billion, its imports were $236.5 billion, and Turkey's imports of $236.5 billion were 60.1 billion in the energy sector. Now, imports, of course, need to be thoroughly studied; you need to see where imports are made, how imports are made. I get these questions from time to time, and I always answer them without getting bored or tired. Friends, 72% of our imports are interim imports. Energy imports, which are a large part of interim imports, are also within the scope of imports, so when you exclude energy, interim imports are at 51 per cent.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0505par0378	What sector is he in?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0504par0379	Turkey also imports 15 per cent of investment goods. Now, what we mean by investment property, by importing intermediary goods, is that we don't have to worry about that, is the new demand in Turkey, modernisation, investments, the investments that the private sector has brought from abroad for the establishment of large businesses. Secondly, iron steel, scraping imports -- which I specifically said -- because of the lack of direction in the iron steel sector of our past, the lack of industry and the height of energy costs, 70 per cent of the iron steel production in Turkey today were made in arron furnace, and 30 per cent with integrated facilities, such as Erdemir et al. Turkey is also a country that imports flat property. Turkey, especially in the automotive sector, is unable to produce what we call a hood hair right now, but the newly built facility we mentioned in Alexander is particularly intended to reduce imports of products that Turkey had to import. Look, the investment made by the Tosian Holdings will bring down a billion dollars in imports when Alexander's investment in the flat product is in full production, but I'll send you a wider, more detailed explanation about it. There was something about this particular oil law that Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan was talking about, and I'm telling my brother again, I don't use words the way you talk about it. I made it very clear, I said: "Those who tell you these things are mufti, liars, and if there is such a thing, I am ready to resign immediately from the ministry. But here's what I want to come up with: Look, Mr. President, valued lawmakers; practices in the Advocacy Act are already carried out by the Council of Ministers' decision. For this reason, both the clause from the Mining Law and the article in the Oil Act are being used by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Article already established in the Law. There is practice in the Mining Law, but if it comes about that in oil, we, of course, examine it, and it's already being done under general incentives. Now, look at this point, again, you're an old bureaucrat with no incentives, and you should know better than I do -- where it's published is the Council of Ministers decree. Therefore, specific applications for incentives are performed here.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0506par0385	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0504par0386	Mr. Ayhan, I'm going to send this back to you in a practical manner. On the other hand, it was asked about the free zone of Kastamon. We have nineteen free zones. Governor of Kastamon, our deputies are here, they're meeting with the head of our ministry. If the advantage of being a free zone is really going to create a value, we'll gladly examine it, refer it to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers... which means that in the process of reviewing it, it's not subject to any decision. When I heard what Mr. Solomon had told me about Adana, I began to fear that there was a different Adana. I'm a man who knows the Adana industry very well. Look, Adana was given 131 incentives in 17 months along with a new form of encouragement. 3.3 quadrillion liras of incentives have been obtained by Adana, and 4,474 will be employed when these incentives are met. So, in this regard, our ministries, whether it's about agricultural products or other products, are already doing the practice on this. My dear friends, I'm running out of time, but one more thing... He knows as much as I do. Çukurova -- right now -- the airport has been tendered for 357m euros, one of Turkey's three major airports, will be shipping cargo airports, and this airport is being held at -- 357m euros -- by a private sector firm that currently has taken over. Our goal here is, hopefully, that this airport should be completed within the specified time period. I'll send written answers to questions I can't answer.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0507par0391	You won't be able to answer anyway.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0504par0392	I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0393	Thank you. I'll try to respond quickly, if you'll excuse me in the remaining four and a half minutes. First, a question was asked about this Chumra. I visited Ionya Chumra, where I didn't go to an agricultural meeting, actually, it was a political meeting, where I went to a meeting of our mayor, the county agency, but there was one citizen who got up, and he expressed a problem when he had a very different meeting agenda, and in response to that problem, he said a little loud, let's say, bodyguards tried to intervene. I asked them not to interfere, let him go, I said we'll see him after the meeting. Then our citizen sat down, and I spoke to him after the meeting. Of course, we had different ideas, but we sat down, we talked, and that's how we got out of there. That's all there is to it. On the other hand, Adana has already been answered. In our provinces like Adana, I just want to underline this. Look, I think there's a great deal more to our discussion about areas that are going to have metropolitan potential than the regional incentive system, strategic sectors, sectors five, primary sectors -- general, technically -- that's a lot more useful. Let's call it a big fish. It's a land we can buy. I think we should look at it that way. On the other hand, let me tell you something about Kastamon and Bursa. The investment we've made in Kastamon over the last decade -- we're only dividing 50 percent of it, we can't divide 50 percent of it -- over 500 million liras. I'm talking $2.3 billion in investments in scholarship, public investments, in ten years, 2002-2013.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0509par0398	Only 2.3 billion in ten years. That's a shame!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0399	Yeah, it's dissociable, like I said, so we've isolated 50 percent of it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0509par0400	He taxed over 50 billion, Mr. Secretary, over 50 billion!
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0401	And what I want to say about taxes is, let's all be a little careful here. I also leave it to you to appreciate where his understanding of the tax-related investment can lead us politically. We can't handle taxes. The government collects taxes, and they spend according to their needs. That's how much I've paid taxes, that's how much I want it. If we say it, it's not a very healthy approach in terms of budget discipline, it can lead to different areas of discussion.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0509par0402	Isn't that right, the people in Bursa? If he's producing it, he's gonna get it.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0403	On the other hand, this financial reading issue is really important. We need to increase the savings rate, we need to make multiple efforts. One of them is financial reading. I wrote down the proposal here. We need to, of course, technically evaluate him. Why is the cutting edge of advanced technology diminishing? Well, actually, if you look at it, it's not necessarily going down, but it's going down proportionally. And that's the proportional reduction, not that it matters, not that it doesn't matter. As a matter of fact, we intended to increase it in our Tenth Year Plan. And in that direction, we will focus on our efforts. Turkey has provided a transformation from low technology to medium technology. But now we have to target high-tech at work. Just as we're targeting advanced revenue levels, we're also going to have to target high technology in production and export structures. Three days ago, our Ministry of Economics launched a study on it. We'll all continue this work together. Our development agencies should receive a grant from the European Union. One factor might be that, so that's one of the areas of work. As a matter of fact, it's a new regional development instrument within our own budget. But in the process, they've been building projects themselves, and they've been building projects in various areas, and they've been attracting funding from the European Union quite a bit. If it weren't for these agencies, we'd be losing funds in a number of areas. By providing project support to their locality, they provided more effective use of these funds by preparing projects. A new budget period is beginning in the next period of Europe, 2014-2020. You know, they've been budgeting for seven years. At this time, we are still negotiating with the commission, asking if we can use development agencies as intermediaries. On the other hand, this long-term strategy -- of course, the development plans are based on certain strategies, which may not always be published by documents, but in this latest plan, we've already compiled our 2023 vision -- in terms of the development plan -- for the first time, we've already compiled it into a formal document, so in part of the development plan -- I can also send it to you -- in a particular page, we've clearly set up our 2023 goals in the plan. He has vision, but of course the more concrete horizon of the plan is a five-year horizon. Mr. Spectacular asked for total factor efficiency. Recently, there has actually been a huge increase in employment in Turkey and mainly in service employment, agricultural employment. In a way that can be interpreted as the result, the growth of employment has preceded our growth, but a more detailed analysis of this can be delivered with our concerned friends. And the number of subcontractors is the same, and I don't want to give you a wrong number now, so I think we should write it down later.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0510par0411	We'd appreciate it if you would, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0412	Mr. Ozgish asked about our secretary general's language score for a short time. In fact, I recently signed that question motion, and as far as I'm concerned, there's over 90 points of language, so it doesn't seem to be a problem.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0413	It's invalid, it's too old. Mr. Secretary, they're misleading again.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0414	Let me check again, okay.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0415	They've misled you before, they've misled you again. I've asked them many times, they're misleading me again.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0416	On the other hand, due to this severance pay, it was based on this comment that he would not be able to receive that seniority when his work life was over, but...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0417	Why didn't they take it? A year and a half later, they took it after I told them to.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0418	That's right, it's been reassessed by your warning, it's been implemented, and it's been rectified.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0419	They didn't take a year and a half, why didn't you investigate? Why didn't they?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0420	It is not right to refer to it as corruption.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0421	If I didn't ask, that money would be gone, government money.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0422	Sometimes the applications have different interpretations. Is it today or the future? That was the real question.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0423	They'd have taken it twice if I hadn't told them.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0424	It's not today. It's the postponing of the future. I don't think it's appropriate to express it in a very extreme word, with corruption.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0425	Mr. Secretary, they've subpoenaed me, I've been acquitted.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0426	You can call it a mistake, you can call it a mistake, but there's no such individual interest here.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0511par0427	The agency sued me, the court found me right.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0428	On the other hand, Mr. Vural had a question about these private savings. Private savings were 18.6% in 2002, but they increased to 14.5. It rose from 15.2 billion Turkish liras to 26.6 billion Turkish liras.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0512par0429	Let Mr. Cavalan speak and carry on.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0430	So, all we have to worry about is that the public has cleaned themselves up, they've increased their savings, and we want to develop the private sector in the following process.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0513par0431	Mr. Secretary, would you please wrap it up?
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0508par0432	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0513par0433	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Akar, please.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0514par0435	My question to Mr. Yilmaz. He is the second province to fall to a square mile, with a population density of 456 people, following İstanbul. It is the second province after İstanbul, but the first province in the collection. First place on tax per person is the province of Alexei. In 2011, he took the 78th place, took the 79th investment in 2012, and we're a city that needs new hospitals, new schools, new roads as much as a Bayburt. What is the investment you envisioned in the 2014 budget, and what is the ranking of the cities in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0515par0439	Very briefly, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0516par0440	Thank you. While I was being asked a question, I used a false statement to correct it: I told him about the five-year investment of Burma, which is 4.755 a decade. So its ten years are different, which means 50 percent. I'll answer your question in writing, but I don't have the number right now.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0517par0443	I ask that question every year, Mr. Secretary, you should have come prepared.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0516par0444	But I insist:
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0518par0445	Yes, thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0516par0446	Don't just look at public investments, we're investing billions of dollars in a public private cooperation model. It's just the speed train project, the numbers...
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0518par0447	Madam Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0519par0448	It's not our project, Minister. Mr. Secretary, thank you. Yes, the question-answer process is complete. Now, I'm going to let you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the 8th round, respectively: [[A group of CHP MPs stood up.]] We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-12-14sit06spe0520par0455	There's a request for roll call, and I'm doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Tülebi, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Özüşüşük, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Star, Mr. Tüyümen, Mr. Süyük, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Bayuttutan, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Güler. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[There's been a check-up with the electronics.]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2012 [[Continue]] 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Rail Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Account for 2012 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account I submit to your votes that the budget of the Ministry of Economics for 2014 will be divided into sections: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 45.838,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 155,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,408,501,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,454,494,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics adopted parts of the central management budget in 2014. The Ministry of Economics in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 1.291.714.330.00 Budget Expenses 1,069,590,843,85 Cancelled Fund 222.123,486,15 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Development will take part in the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Development Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,223,711,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 811.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 04 Economic Affairs and Services 260,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 29.500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,254.282,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the Department of Development of the Central Management Account of 2012 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Development Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 1,068,297,500,00 Budget Expenses 886.897.586.33 Canceled Grant 181,399,913,67 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Development was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Statistical Agency will take part in the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 32.75) THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTION 1) Turkey's Statistical Institution Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 277,934,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,206,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 279.140,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Statistical Institution was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Statistical Institution shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution Chairman's Central Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 183,806,224,00 Budget Expenses 181,915,620,60 Cancelled Fund 1,890,603,40 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of Turkey's Statistical Institution was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the president of the GAP Regional Development Administration shall take part in the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.34) GAP CONTROL 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.307,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 63,722,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 68.029,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 66,928,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,100,000 TOPLAM 68.029,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Administration account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 70,854,000.00 Budget Expenses 63.120.220.91 Canceled Fund 7.733.779.09 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 70,854,000.00 Net Collection 58.918.078.33 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the East Anatolian Project Regional Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 69,050.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 69,050.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 68,829000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 69,050.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration's chairmanship was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the President of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration in 2012 will take part in the final account of central management: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 4.108,000.00 Budget Expenses 398.756.92 Canceled Fund 3.709.243.08 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 4.108,000.00 Net Collection 1,003,770,00 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management account in 2012. I would like to submit to your votes that the Chairman of the District Development Administration will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.55) CONTROL PROJECT CONTROL CENTER 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 88,694,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 88.694,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 88,383,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 310.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 88.694,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I would like to submit to your votes that the Chairman of the District Development Administration of the Plains of Iconium shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2012: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) The Rail Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 4.108,000.00 Budget Expenses 1,991,154.23 Canceled Fund 2,116,845,77 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 4.108,000.00 Net Collection 4,115,363,36 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Office of the District Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management account in 2012. East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2014 will be transferred to its sections: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 59,278,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 59,278,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 59,268,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 59.278,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman of the Central Management Account of 2012 will be transferred to the chapters of the final account: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: (A) C E T V E L [[TL]] Total allowance 4.108,000.00 Budget Expenses 691,982.03 Canceled Fund 3.416.017.97 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 4.108,000.00 Net Collection 1,004.735.00 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2012. In this way, the economy ministry, the Ministry of Development, Turkey's Statistical Institution, the Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Council of the Plains and the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration were approved with final accounts of central management in 2012. We wish him well. Members of parliament, according to the programme, I am closing the merger to meet at 10:00 p.m. on Sunday (December 15th 2013) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the institutions in order.
