tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine whether the privatisation practices carried out in violation of the law and public harm of these courts have been established by the executive bodies regarding the decrees of cancellations that have been finalised and court decisions, we would like to see that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104, and 105 of the Constitutional Court. With all due respect. 15/03/2012 1) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 3) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] 20) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] In 1984, when legal regulations for privatisation were being made in our country, privatisation and minimising the state's testing and commercial activity in the economy, the creation of a competitive market economy, reducing the OSCE financing burden on the state budget and increasing the efficiency of public institutions and companies operating at the expense of private sectors, improving capital markets, and in this way redirecting resources to infrastructure investments. The privatisation of the damaged public institutions and institutions should be privatised primarily, but it is imperative that the implementations be examined through the judiciary as a result of the privatisation of multi-profit or high-income enterprises to public harm. • privatisation of Balıkesir Industries owned by SECA paper factories, • privatisation of the meat aluminum company by 100 per cent, • privatisation of Turkey's Maritime Enterprises by granting the right to operate • privatisation of Turkey's Maritime Employees' Port of Cesme, with the right to operate, • The sale of a 14 per cent stake in Turkey's oil refinery company at İMKB is an example of privatisation practices that have been cancelled. The irregularities in the sales process of public institutions and companies producing in profitable and strategic areas have shown a contrast with the original goals of privatisation of sales that are far below their real value. A number of privatisation practices have been cancelled as a result of lawsuits related to this illegal and public damage process. For example, the sale of the Balıkesir SEKA Paper Factory, which is $51.2 million in market value, for $1.1m, is about the sale of its value. On July 28, 2003, the Supreme Court decided to halt the execution on the grounds that public benefit and privatisation did not suit the purpose, and then abort. However, nine years have passed since Balıkesir decided to cancel the privatisation tender and rule the extradition of SEKA to the state, but no action has been made yet. Although numerous decisions have been made by other judicial bodies for the extradition of Balıkesir SEKA, no measures have been taken by executive bodies and administration to implement court decisions. Other privatisation practices have been observed that the executive bodies and the administration of the court have done nothing about the cancellation decisions. In Article 138 of the Constitution, "The administration and the executive bodies of the Constitution must comply with the court's decisions; these bodies and the administration cannot, in any way, change the court's decisions and delay the implementation of them." His sentence is granted. The privatisation of privatisation practices against the law and public harm is needed to investigate whether there is any further and further transactions by the executive bodies and the administration regarding the cancellation decisions made by the relevant courts and court decisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Reactions from all parts of society continue to rise to the missile shield set up in the Malatian sphere region. On March 10, 2012, the base in the Globecik, where the shield was established, was asked to be visited by CHP MPs. For this purpose, the General Staff was first asked for permission from the Chief of Staff, and the Chief of Staff refused the request on grounds that the State Department should be granted permission for this matter. Following this response, the State Department has been issued a written application and asked for permission again. The State Department has also responded that they have no authorization to enter the base. Finally, the Ministry of National Defence has been interviewed, and the deputy secretary of the Ministry has stated that the authorities do not approve, but there has been no statement as to who the relevant authorities are. As a result, the fact that a piece of land found in Turkey cannot be visited by members of the legislature has been faced with the fact that it cannot be visited. There is no doubt that there is no way of knowing which public authority is involved in the matter of permission. This is a manifestation of political power's desperation. The passive position of political power in the Globecik leads to various doubts about the corroding of its understanding of sovereignty. No official statement has been made about the missile defence system from Turkish authorities so far. The key issues, as the missile shield will be installed in the Globekuk, when US troops have begun to work at the base, have been heard by public opinion from the US authorities and the press. In addition to the absence of CHP MPs to the base in Globecik, this has occurred to the mind that there have been developments outside the initiative of political power. "Who is preventing access to the missile shield base? Why is political power hiding the truth about the Globecicle? Has he entered an engagement against international forces to protect his power?" questions such as these have been raised. There is no doubt that the best answer to these questions will be transparency. It is often said that the sphere will be similar to the base set up in Adana İncirlik. The C.S.B.'s barracks tender strengthens those remarks. Following the operation of the radar base by the National Ministry of Defense, the new construction has recently launched a service tender for the Globekic Barrack Development Plan and Development Application for the Globek barracks. The tender is planned by Ankara-based UTTA Planning, Projecting Consultancy Ltd. He won the company, signed a service contract with the Ministry of National Defense and the company mentioned. In our country, foreign soldiers must be given permissions by the TBMM to work for long periods of time, while foreign soldiers are placed in the Globek by the TBMM's authority. The process is unconstitutional and authorities commit crimes. How many soldiers will remain in the barracks have been asked by the question proposals of which states are military, but no explanation has yet been made. The X-band TPY-2 radar, designed for Malatya, for sailors and landmen, costs 150-200 million dollars. The annual operating cost is said to be around $40 million. Due to the radar's presence on the Turkish border, the media has reportedly paid a large sum to the United States' Turkish state. Public statements are being made to either rent or sell the sphere. No one has the right to throw the people of Asia Minor into the fire for his benefit. As in previous examples, state officials have not yet made a statement on the matter. If the allegations are true, the conclusion is that a bargain has been carried out over the land and life of the Turkish people. The public is wondering what the AKP has sold the Globecik for. In order to address the political, military, economic impact of the shield on the shield, to clarify the issues on the agenda of the shield, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104,5 of the Constitution, 98th, Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution, 104, and 105th Articles. 27.03.2012 [[Malatya]] 2) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 10) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[40s.]] 18) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İzmir]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Army]] [[Sakarya]] 23) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Erzincan]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] 28) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Tunceli]] [[Tunceli]] [[Ardahan]] 33) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Antalya]] 35) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Denizli]] 40) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As for Ceyhan Energy İhtisas Industries District, which is envisioned to be established in Ceyhan district, I demand the opening of Parliament research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Council of Turkey, which is published on October 17, 2007 and 26673. Yours truly. [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Edirne]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] 13) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] [[Manisa]] 22) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 26) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] 27) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 29) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] 32) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Hatay]] 34) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] The 2007 Council of Ministers' decision envisioned the establishment of Ceyhan County's Ceyhan Industrial Region of Ceyhan for 13 million 471,964 square metres. As the region is established, Adana will become an important energy centre and investments in this region will contribute considerably to both the region and the country's economy, it is said. In addition, the Council of Ministers' decision was issued in Article 30/1/2010 and Official Gazette 27478 for the immediate nationalisation of the area. However, so far, there has been no explanation as to the state-of-the-art investment and the state-of-the-art investments of the region, how a investor who wants to invest in the region would take a bureaucratic route and where he should apply. According to the organisation's law, the area's operation was given to the Adana Chamber of Industry, which was reportedly sent by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology on 28 March 2008, to the end of the region's publicisation work and to the establishment of the business directorate immediately. As a result, a business directorate has been established in the Adana Industrial Room, without any activity or displays. Since the decision taken by the Council of Ministers, for nearly five years, the public has been skeptical as to why such an important project has not been moving forward. Beyond the bureaucratic barriers, there are doubts about whether this area by the sea will be earmarked for private investments or some private sector owners for different purposes. An application mechanism for entrepreneurs who want to invest in the region has not been created, nor has an objective plan been laid out in five years on which criteria to invest in these areas. Therefore, it is necessary to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution to investigate whether this project, which is vital to both the region and Turkey, did not work because of bureaucratic obstacles or for different purposes. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and Foreign Commission reports, which are ranked third in the Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fishing and Water Products Commission Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th place, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs, where we are left to talk with Plan and Budget Commission reports on the amendments to the Law and Government Act. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. According to Article 91 of the Civil Code, Article 62 was adopted in the third part of the proposed law. Now, let's move on to item 63. There are two motions on Article 63: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of the 63rd Article of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the proposal for the amendment of some Law and Law Act shall be submitted in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu "Addition 33 of Article 63 - 178 of the Constitution has been changed in the following way. Article 33-43 of the EC MADDE, Article 29 and the oral phase of the examinations of Article 42 (c) under the verbal phase of entrance examinations under Article 5018 and Article 60 of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018 dated 10/12/2003; A) The ability to grasp and sum up a subject, the ability to express and the power of reasoning, B) Responsibility of liakati, representation, information level, behavior and responses, C) His confidence, his persuasion, and his credibility, ) General talent and general culture, d) His openness to scientific and technological developments, It's done by evaluation. The exam commission evaluates candidates for each of the above-written features. According to the assessment, the scores are written down." (x) 478 S. The Numbered Basmaz 3/7/2013 was added to the 129th Union Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Laws in accordance with Articles of Law and Law and Government Officers Laws and Agreement of Amendments under the Laws and Laws under the Laws of Laws and Laws, Publicity, Development, Development and Tourism Commissions and Plans and Budget Commission Reports 63. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Izzet Çetin Free Special Kazım Kurt İlhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0002par0294	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0001par0295	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0003par0296	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0001par0297	Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0004par0298	Dear lawmakers, with this clause, Article 33 is carried out in the same manner as Article 33, which was issued in September 2011 in accordance with a decree issued by the State of the Finance Ministry on Agency and its duties. In accordance with the law issued under the law, the Constitutional Court does not authorise the government on this matter. So, the government has passed a decree in accordance with the law of authority. This legal error -- not a mistake, but rather a deliberate one -- has been dismissed by the Constitutional Court as a result of the Republican People's Party's annulment. The arrangement brought at first glance can be considered quite innocent because the cancellation of the decree clause is brought here, but in fact, it takes a little bit of time to get an assessment of why this material was brought in. So, in September 2011, when there was an arrangement under the Law Code 659, the intention was very different, the intention was this: the government made a similar arrangement in all public institutions, in all public institutions, in the Ministry of Justice, in the Ministry of Interior, in the Court. Now, this arrangement is being carried out in exactly the same way as the Ministry of Finance's Agency Law. Those who are behind these arrangements will be chosen according to the appreciation and assessments of the government, who will be assigned to some expertise, assistant inspectors, or administrative duties, to administrative positions such as the National Real Estate Office, and the assistant bookmaster. A similar arrangement has been made in the Court of Justice, made in the Ministry of Interior for the parliamentary examinations, and has also been carried out in the Ministry of Justice Law, and in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law for the examinations. All of these arrangements have been converted into oral examination interviews, and as a result of the evaluations in this interview, an arrangement has been made that there will be no other recordings or camera recordings except for the transcripts, because earlier the competencies of the Court's audit commission's subjective, particulate evaluations were cancelled by the State Department as a result of its stance. The court said that this test is not valid if you have not kept a record to refute the claims of that person's candidate who took the test. The Court's Law was quickly changed, and it was decided that there would be no record of anything except the examination commission, so that no one could go to the court and file any lawsuits, even if they were hungry, to lose this case. Now, here's what's going to go into this report: the ability to grasp and sum up a subject, the ability to express, the ability to reason, the self-confidence of the candidate, persuasion, credibility, general ability and general culture, the ability to represent, the ability to represent, the level of knowledge, the function of behavior and response. But when we look at the substance, it's about oral testing. The oral exam is a test of measuring information. The written test wants to measure things that it lacks or does not comprehend, but the oral exam has been converted into an interview, as in other institutions, and there is nothing here to measure information. Of course, the oral examination included individuals' ability to represent, expression skills, but it was only part of the oral examination measuring knowledge. Now, the oral exam has been lifted, interviewed, and an open system for subjective assessments. I find the fact that such a bad, unfair system has been moved to the Treasury Department sad for an old institution such as the Finance Ministry. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0005par0303	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of the 63rd Article of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the proposal for the amendment of some Law and Law Act shall be submitted in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "Addition 33 of Article 63 - 178 of the Constitution has been changed in the following way. Article 33-43 of the EC MADDE, Article 29 and the oral phase of the examinations of Article 42 (c) under the verbal phase of entrance examinations under Article 5018 and Article 60 of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018 dated 10/12/2003; A) The ability to grasp and sum up a subject, the ability to express and the power of reasoning, B) Responsibility of liakati, representation, information level, behavior and responses, C) His confidence, his persuasion, and his credibility, ) General talent and general culture, d) His openness to scientific and technological developments, It's done by evaluation. The exam commission evaluates candidates for each of the above-written features. According to the assessment, the scores are written down." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0006par0319	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0005par0320	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0007par0321	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0005par0322	Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0008par0323	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0005par0324	I'm reading the reason: The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who are under Act 4924, and those who meet the conditions of the contractors and the teachers of the substitute Koran course. However, the officer's staff is required to provide contract personnel and deputies There are no 4/Cs among them who have the deepest victimology. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. There is an obstruction of the rights-seeking freedom of citizens and an intervention in the judiciary regarding the publicized property. The right to information on the questions and answers of the PSYM exams has been blocked. The public interest in its capital is directly or indirectly less than 50% out of the Court's control. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0009par0335	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit01spe0005par0336	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0005par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on Article 63 was not enough to vote on the motion submitted by Manisa MP Sumer Oral and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 64: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of the 64th Article of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the proposal for the amendment of some Law and Law Act shall be submitted in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal The first joke of Article 2 of the Constitutional Court of Law has been added to Article 2 of Article 2 of the Press and Information Directorate No. 231 dated 64 - 8/6/1984. οnly οnly οnly οnly οnly οnly οnly οnly οnly οf the press-relοn, οf the press card commission's οnοutrοnary activities, j) Create and keep the Turkish Media Database up to date, k) Building a training centre to organise vocational training for local and foreign media members in the media area. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 478 rows in which there are 478 rows in which there are amendments to the provisions of the Law and Budget Commission, and 64 of the Plans and Budget Commission Reports, under the Law and Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0010par0024	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0005par0025	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0011par0026	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0012par0027	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0005par0028	I'm reading the reason: In the Turkish Language Association Dictionary, the bag is "a vehicle usually touched by cotton and hair, in a manner of size and shape, that can be tightened and gagged": 2. It is often described as a plastic or paper-made carryer, which can be of various sizes, which is used to put the stuff in it." The word "truck" added at the head of the "law" is a very accurate adjective that points to the mystery because its "transportation function" is not always predictable and will be placed in it at the same time. When it comes to the law, it's the Civil Code. In its context, it is virtually impossible to speak of the spirit of the blood. The bag is subject to various surprises in terms of law and enforcement. For example, there are some items of bag law, motive traffic, that are either too complicated or without a motive. For this reason, the law on concrete legal dilemmas is often unable to work. In general, there are two types of lawmaking: one normal, the other accelerated. The normal procedure, based on matter-based discussion and voting, is technically "the usual way of life." The accelerated path is called the "special way of life." Our response to the method of special legislation has been a bit of a coercion of "principal law." The method of rapid law enforcement into Turkish parliamentary law in 1991 is 91 of the TBM Council. In a term inspired by the title of its article, it is established as "the basic law." However, this use is mixed with the term "subject law" used for the first time in the field of legal reform, when referring to the main laws such as the Law of Civil Law, "The Law of Loans," "Turkish Penal Code." The basic method of law in practice refers to the compression of a file in computer terms, since it means that the law bill or proposal should be compressed into sections of non-30ths in the General Assembly talks. It's the 91st edition of the TBM Subsequent. In the matter, there is already a similar "boggling" of the definition of "subject law" in particular. The Article has been cancelled several times by the Constitutional Court, and the waters have been largely settled after the necessary changes were made in the light of the cancellations. Whatever the cost, the adoption of a bag of laws to speed up the process of legislation brings with it serious difficulties. The bag law presents problems not only in terms of the legislative process, but also in the process of implementing the bill or proposal after the law has been passed. The way to make a bag of laws requires that opposition and NGOs are effectively unable to participate in law-making processes. Besides, even lawmakers from the ruling party are troubled by content control over the effects of the bag of laws, which can cover all topics. In practice, even though such a requirement does not exist, the bag is fueled by changing laws or laws that soon change in order to correct the mistakes of legislation due to the rapid legalisation of the fundamental law. In short, the bag of laws in our country are also a triggering factor in the need for new changes in the changing law. Due to these reasons, the amount taken under the bag law must be evaluated under the basic law, so it must be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of the 64th Article of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the proposal for the amendment of some Law and Law Act shall be submitted in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "UNDDE 64 - 8/6/1984, and the first joke of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Department of Media and Information General Directorate 231, is included. "i) to set up press cards for members of the press-pushing organization, to conduct secretory activities of the Press Card Commission, j) Create and keep the Turkish Media Database up to date, "to establish vocational training centres for local and foreign media members in the media area." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0013par0045	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0005par0046	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0014par0047	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0015par0048	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0005par0049	I'm reading the reason: The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who are under Act 4924, and those who meet the conditions of the contractors and the teachers of the substitute Koran course. However, there are no 4/Cs who have the most deeply victimized among the contracted staff and deputies given the staff. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. There is an obstruction of the rights-seeking freedom of citizens and an intervention in the judiciary regarding the publicized property. The right to information on the questions and answers of the PSYM exams has been blocked. The public interest in its capital is directly or indirectly less than 50% out of the Court's control. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0016par0059	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit02spe0005par0060	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0005par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 64, there was not enough decision to vote on the motion submitted by Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 65, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of Article 65 of the Law and State Officials Act and some Laws Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu "Current 12 of Articles No. 65-231 of the Constitution has been changed in the following way. "The duties of the General Manager's legal counsel are: A) Running all business and procedures under the provisions of the provisions of the provisions of the provisions of the Law, which are issued under the provisions laid out in the Constitution, shall be carried out in accordance with the rules and principles laid down in the Constitution of the Constitution, and shall be carried out in Article 26/9/2011 under the General Budgetary Administrations and Special Budgeted Administrations. B) To give an opinion on the legal issues asked by the General Manager's department about the procedures that will lead to legal, financial, criminal consequences." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 478 rows in which there are 478 rows in which there are amendments to the provisions of the Law and Budget Commission, and 65 of the Plans and Budget Commission Reports, under the Law and Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Güldült Kuşoğlu Aytun Çıray Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0017par0028	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0005par0029	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0018par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0005par0031	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0019par0032	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0005par0033	I'm reading the reason: In the Turkish Language Association Dictionary, the bag is "a vehicle usually touched by cotton and hair, in a manner of size and shape, that can be tightened and gagged": 2. It is usually completed in plastic or paper, which can be a variety of sized transport devices, which are designed to put in a crossbow, which is made of paper and paper." The word "truck" added at the head of the "law" is a very accurate adjective that points to the mystery of "transportation function" on the one hand, as it is not always predictable in the other. When it comes to the law, it's the Civil Code. In its context, it is virtually impossible to speak of the spirit of the blood. Bag laws have a variety of surprises in terms of enforcers. For example, there are some items of bag law, motive traffic, that are either too complicated or without a motive. For this reason, the law on concrete legal dilemmas is often unable to work. In general, there are two types of lawmaking: one normal, the other accelerated. The normal procedure, based on matter-based discussion and voting, is technically "the usual way of life." The accelerated path is called the "special way of life." Our response to the method of special legislation has been a bit of a coercion of "principal law." The method of rapid law enforcement into Turkish parliamentary law in 1991 is 91 of the TBM Council. In a term inspired by the title of its article, it is established as "the basic law." However, this use is mixed with the term "subject law" used for the first time in the field of legal reform, when referring to the main laws such as the Law of Civil Law, "The Law of Loans," "Turkish Penal Code." The basic method of law in practice refers to the compression of a file in computer terms, since it means that the law bill or proposal should be compressed into sections of non-30ths in the General Assembly talks. The CDM subcommittee is 91. In particular, there is a similar "bossing" on the subject of the definition of "the basic law." After the amendments were made by the Constitutional Court, which had been cancelled several times, the waters were largely settled. Whatever the cost, the adoption of a bag of laws to speed up the process of legislation brings with it serious difficulties. The bag law presents problems not only in terms of the legislative process, but also in the process of implementing the bill or proposal after the law has been passed. The way to make a bag of laws requires that opposition and NGOs are effectively unable to participate in law-making processes. Besides, even lawmakers from the ruling party are troubled by content control over the effects of the bag of laws that can cover all topics. In practice, even though such a requirement does not exist, the bag is fueled by changing laws or laws that soon change in order to correct the mistakes of legislation due to the rapid legalisation of the fundamental law. In short, the bag of laws in our country are also a triggering factor in the need for new changes in the changing law. Due to these reasons, the amount taken under the bag law must be evaluated under the basic law, so it must be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of Article 65 of the Law and State Officials Act and some Laws Act. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "Current 12 of Articles No. 65-231 of the Constitution has been changed in the following way. "The duties of the General Manager's legal counsel are: A) Running all business and procedures under the provisions of the provisions of the provisions of the provisions of the Law, which are issued under the provisions laid out in the Constitution, shall be carried out in accordance with the rules and principles laid down in the Constitution of the Constitution, and shall be carried out in Article 26/9/2011 under the General Budgetary Administrations and Special Budgeted Administrations. B) To give an opinion on the legal issues asked by the General Manager's department about the procedures that will lead to legal, financial, criminal consequences." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0020par0050	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0005par0051	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0021par0052	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0022par0053	Mr. Mehmet Günal, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0005par0054	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0023par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, the matter before this is both related to the Press and Information General Directorate. The previous article included media databases and regulations for local media, and here's an arrangement for the previous decision on legal counseling. This organization is as old as this great House, ancient. Ataturk lays the foundation of this institution in 1920, just after the Assembly was established. In the conditions of that day, it was founded on the basic purpose of compiling Turkey's promotion abroad and a number of news reports about Turkey abroad, or rather, some work to ensure that the new state is introduced abroad as well as abroad. He's been through a lot of things, he's changed, he's tied up there, he's tied up here, he's got publicity, but we've never been able to really, really run it, in line with the purpose of the organization. We know you do a lot of good work. I first met this institution when I was a student at the faculty of political knowledge. Our German teacher now had newspapers in three languages, in four languages, under the name New Spot, which I first took to that institution, Kavakendere, and because they were giving it away for free, I was taking it to my teacher and taking advantage of it myself. We have contributed to the preparation of economic sections of Turkey's Guide to Turkey for a few more years, even before becoming a MP, which is now being distributed to the world in both the Internet environment and as a book, I think, in 8-9 languages, but these are publishing activities, promotional activities. Beyond that, there are a number of goals, goals that are expected here, there are things that the institution has to do. In particular, a database of local media is said to have been created, and some platforms have been created on the agency's website, but unfortunately, friends, there are no supports provided by the Press Ads, not enough reports, not enough work on local media; it's always said. The platforms are gathering, the panels are being built, but the essentials are not being provided. In this framework, it is not enough to create a database, especially in terms of supporting local media. And it's said that there's going to be a media database, which, even though we don't consider that to be part of their duties legally, these institutions have to do it. But what's important is that they're supported, they're given some conveniences, some incentives, some ease in the study, such as exceptions, I think it might be more appropriate to provide them with more. Otherwise, it's just an organization for show. They actually do some things. He used to come back when we were bureaucrats, but now that he's on his website, I guess they don't do it as much as they used to, he does it for the yearbook. There are counselors abroad. I think there should be 39 or 40 -- Mr. Secretary may be able to tell us if he knows -- but now, unfortunately, these don't work effectively. There are a lot of counselors, I've told you before, when the embassy is not coordinated, everyone is in their own way, connected to the centre, unaware of Turkey's foreign policy, or actively unable to contribute to the introduction. Thus, in terms of co-ordination of these institutions, those advisors need to be effectively employed. If we think of it as a place to send someone abroad, then we can't reach those goals, unfortunately, we can't achieve those goals. If such an opportunity is available, if such an institution has foreign advisers, I think it should be organised, as in TİKA, that it should be organised effectively, as in other foreign institutions, to contribute to diplomacy, and to contribute to Turkey's external promotion. This is hereby within the framework of this law... that the media, yes, have a database, especially in local media relations, but not to watch what they're doing, but to actually coordinate and support... in the national sense, you already know all about it. There are only a few left because there's a large amount of media advocacy, so put pressure on them, but at least keep the local media alive so that at least democracy can work in some way, support them, contribute to them. So at least we've contributed a little bit to the freedom of our citizens to become news. Otherwise, I'm saying our nation won't know anything except for those from the mainstream media. For now, he's paying my respects, and I wish him well.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0024par0064	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 66: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of Article 66 of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778), and the proposal for the amendment of some Law and Law Act shall be submitted in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan "MEDDE 66 - 22/1/1990, and Article 22 of Article 22 of Article 22 of Article 22 of the Constitution under Article No. 399 of Public Economics Initiatives, the Order of the Staff Regime and the Elimination of Some Articles of the Law of 233. " Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law Proposal and State Officials Act to change the provisions of some Laws and Laws and Laws Act 478 rankings that have been held, Bayızlik, Development, and Tourism Commission 66 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Aytun Çıray Bulent Kuşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0025par0084	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0024par0085	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0026par0086	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0024par0087	Speaking on the motion, Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0027par0089	Mr. President, there's a report in the Republican newspaper today. It's been sent to a new department on health tag. Dear friends, we applied to the Constitutional Court on both the billing of patients and the Full Day Law on Article 663, and the Constitutional Court cancelled this law and made a decision. Last week, in accordance with this decision by the Constitutional Court, we discussed the laws on reorganising the laws of the Constitutional Court, where the government told us that these laws have been repealed as of July 1st, and that this bag should be re-established in this Parliament, even within the law. Now, first of all, before we get to the bottom of this, I'd like to say, legally, that's not true. Look, right now I have the Constitutional Court ruling and a section published by the Prime Minister in the Official Gazette. It says there: "The act of the Law on the Full Day Law and the bill on billing of the patients is being passed by the statement published by the Prime Minister's office in Reseminate Newspaper. We've got nine months to go, so I'd like to ask the government's wing not to squeeze this into this bag of legislation. Let's make these more healthy. Dear friends, there's a rule in medicine: put yourself in the patient's shoes. Now, I'm asking you, I'm asking the AKP Group, as a physician in the power wing, to please put yourself in the position of the patient and prevent the re-opening of the law issued under the new law of Law 663 under Article 47. Dear friends, there is a very important sentence in Article 47 that you should all know. The 16th article states that all documents, notebooks and information, even if it is confidential, must be submitted if requested. The 47th article is also authorized by all public and private health institutions and institutions, health care providers, as required by health care services, to provide personal information and information about the services given to the institution and the service of these individuals. Dear friends, these powers issued under a decree in accordance with the decree of the revoked law are contrary to the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, the freedom and security of the individual, the privacy and protection of private life, ▪ the protection of basic rights and freedoms, and the protection of medical deontology Charter. Dear friends are also against international law. According to the European Court of Human Rights rulings, the collection and use of medical information as personal information by other institutions or persons other than medical procedures is a clear violation of privacy. Friends, in the event that this law goes back into effect here, and in the event that today's generality operates, patients may experience dramatic consequences as they learn that all of their information is stored by third parties, including their identity information. This practice can produce a conjunctive to prevent even some of the patients from going to physicians because of the fear that information that could lead to murder, suicides, family disasters, such as virginity, pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases. It's not medically acceptable for people or insurance companies to know the secrets of a cancer patient who doesn't want to be heard of, even from their wives. In short, the Ministry's desire for this information with their identities is clearly a violation of patient confidentiality. In our society, where everyone is listened and everyone is followed, there's only one special life that our people have left because of their rights to be sick, so I'm asking you, please don't let this House rape him now. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0028par0099	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of Article 66 of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778), and the proposal for the amendment of some Law and Law Act shall be submitted in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "MEDDE 66 - 22/1/1990, and Article 22 of Article 22 of Article 22 of Article 22 of the Constitution under Article No. 399 of Public Economics Initiatives, the Order of the Staff Regime and the Elimination of Some Articles of the Law of 233. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0029par0107	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0028par0108	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0030par0109	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0028par0110	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0031par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, there's a sentence here concerning the staff regime at KİSK, but I'd like to make a brief reminder to Mr. Bayraktar that when I saw Mr. Bayraktar come in -- there were things about him yesterday that I didn't talk about because he wasn't himself -- that I didn't speak to him yesterday. I told the Minister on the commission that this urban transformation has now turned into an urban transformation. I'd like to give you a little example of my own constituency, Antalya, a construction that continues during the tourist season. I asked him what kind of urban transformation they're going to do in the town of Gündot and in Rediot, and I asked him in writing and in the Commission, and I asked him a very satisfactory explanation... Minister, I have a file from citizens right now. There is an area in Gündoğdu where public land is reserved as construction, and you can look there -- you can look at the pictures in the file, friends -- they build construction at the university, hotel education. Come on, you made that up. Tourism season in Antalya County starts in April, and nailing nails during tourist season is forbidden in tourist areas. There are other problems with this project, but one thing I'm particularly curious about is that the citizens are objecting, naturally they're taking precautions, and then, somehow, the governor's decision is being lifted, and this construction you've seen in the middle of the tourist season and in the tourist zone is going on, Mr. Minister, the hotel construction, the practice hotel. I'd like to say that you have also used this great Assembly here and have allowed the same person to build a hotel in the Belt. I'd like to present to you here that it belongs to us permanently and when the time is up, it should be handed over to us now indefinitely, and that the hotel under the name "university" belongs to the same person as the head of the trustee's delegation. Now, Mr. Secretary, I don't understand how this works. I asked him the other day: Mr. Minister, there is no demand for the city in Gündoğdu, Rediot, and Kepez, in the cities of Antalya... when the municipality and the citizens of Kepez have rebelled and the parties have held a press conference. TOKI sits down, scans from the center, says, "Let's do an urban transformation here." I asked the minister, and I said, "There's a place in the belly of Manavgat. There's no demand from there." I ask all the municipalities, have you made such a request? Kepez was then cancelled because there was no demand at Kepez. Unfortunately, they're the ones that are closing down right now. The towns have closed down, not the city center, but the villages have already turned into towns, and now they have closed down, and with the next election, their government figures are being eliminated. Now, where there are so many places, Mr. Secretary, the TOKI will stop and do what urban transformation there? I'm asking you again. I've asked you before, but now it's new. In June, again, citizens objected to the decision for measures, and despite that decision, the construction continues. I have the photos here, and I can share them with you, so you can send your people over and have them inspected at your place. Please, let's give up the massacre of this city under the name of local transformation, not give up public lands to the allies. Look, we're giving it to him for education. He's going the other way. You did the same thing in the Capital Market Law. We objected here. You were handing it over to TOKI again, as a result of our objections here, if I don't remember about 159 wrongs -- you were giving the place directly to TOKI. You said, "Let's give your ear directly to the Ministry of National Education and then give it to the Ministry of National Education." Yeah, well, we've come to understand that some things are being done, some constructions are being done on behalf of the public, and it's not exactly right for me to exploit the work of the citizen by creating the city's rants by making them a random transformation mechanism. In this concrete example, as the Ministry of Interior and the Minister of Interior who deals in these matters, we demand that this construction be stopped as soon as this tourist season is over, at least until the trial is over. I hope these massacres end, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0032par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0033par0123	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0032par0124	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's been a disagreement among the clerks. So, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 67th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the addition of the declaration of birth after the declaration of sickness of Article 23 of Law 399, which is intended to be replaced by Article 67 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tiered Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; in accordance with the Law and Law Laws Act of Law and State Officials Act, we propose the following amendment of the 67th Article of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal "MEDDE 67 - 399 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 23 of the Constitution. "Excuse, Disease, Birth Permissions and Other Permissions Article 1 of the Court of Appeals shall be carried out on the basis of the staff of the contracted personnel on the basis of their staff, on the basis of excuses, escorts, sickness permits, and paid or free permits. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws in accordance with the laws and laws of law and the laws of state and the laws of law shall be made in accordance with the laws of law and the laws of law shall be made in accordance with the laws of law and the laws of law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Bornt Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haluk Ahmet Silver Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0034par0154	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0032par0155	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0035par0156	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0036par0157	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0032par0158	I'm reading the reason: In the Turkish Language Association Dictionary, the bag is "a vehicle usually touched by cotton and hair, in a manner of size and shape, that can be tightened and gagged": 2. It is often described as a plastic or paper-made carryer, which can be of various sizes, which is used to put the stuff in it." The word "truck" added at the head of the "law" is a very accurate adjective that points to the mystery of "transportation function" on the one hand, as it is not always predictable in the other. When it comes to the law, it's the Civil Code. In its context, it is virtually impossible to speak of the spirit of the blood. Bag laws have a variety of surprises in terms of enforcers. For example, there are some items of bag law, motive traffic, that are either too complicated or without a motive. For this reason, the law on concrete legal dilemmas is often unable to work. In general, there are two types of lawmaking: one normal, the other accelerated. The normal procedure, based on matter-based discussion and voting, is technically "the usual way of life." The accelerated path is called the "special way of life." Our response to the method of special legislation has been a bit of a coercion of "principal law." The method of rapid law enforcement into Turkish parliamentary law in 1991 is 91 of the TBM Council. In a term inspired by the title of its article, it is established as "the basic law." However, this use is mixed with the term "subject law" used for the first time in the field of legal reform, when referring to the main laws such as the Law of Civil Law, "The Law of Loans," "Turkish Penal Code." The basic method of law in practice refers to the compression of a file in computer terms, since it means that the law bill or proposal should be compressed into sections of non-30ths in the General Assembly talks. The CDM subcommittee is 91. In the matter, there is already a similar "boggling" of the definition of "subject law" in particular. After the amendments were made by the Constitutional Court, which had been cancelled several times, the waters were largely settled. Whatever the cost, the adoption of a bag of laws to speed up the process of legislation brings with it serious difficulties. The bag law presents problems not only in terms of the legislative process, but also in the process of implementing the bill or proposal after the law has been passed. The way to make a bag of laws requires that opposition and NGOs are effectively unable to participate in law-making processes. Besides, even lawmakers from the ruling party are troubled by content control over the effects of the bag of laws that can cover all topics. In practice, although there is no such obligation, the bag of the basic law fuels the change in laws or laws that have soon changed in order to correct the mistakes of legislation, which are due to the rapid legalisation of the laws discussed under the law. In short, the bag of laws in our country are also a triggering factor in the need for new changes in the changing law. Due to these reasons, the amount taken under the bag law must be evaluated under the basic law, so it must be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tiered Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; in accordance with the Law and Law Laws Act of Law and State Officials Act, we propose the following amendment of the 67th Article of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "MEDDE 67 - 399 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 23 of the Constitution. "Excuse, Disease, Birth Permissions and Other Permissions The Court of Appeals shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the staff shown on the table I, which shall be added to the staff's staff for excuses, escorts, sickness permits, and paid or free permits. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0037par0174	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0032par0175	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0038par0176	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0039par0177	Nevzat Don't be afraid...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0032par0178	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0040par0179	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The AKP's government continues its efforts to highlight some issues and draw attention to other areas with artificial agendas, not only inside but also outside the country, to create its own agenda instead of priority agendas. The military coup in Egypt is an antidemocratic act that suspends the will of the Egyptian people, a violation of human rights, a public abolition of the national will. He knows the distress of the coups of our nation best. So, thank God, our nation, at least its vast majority, has a natural reflex against coups. Supporting the coup won't bring anything to any party, so he'll be beaten to death forever. Dear lawmakers, the more dangerous the coup, the more dangerous the coup, the more vulnerable the public life, the more dangerous it is to create air as if Turkey is in danger of a coup at any moment, the more dangerous it is to enter into a statement, the more dangerous it is to determine the government's lack of self-esteem. It will bring out harmful consequences, such as the placement of this fear in the hearts of the nation. The country's agenda needs to be normalized, back to its national agenda. Look, Cambaza, when the game is being played, unfortunately we avoid the issues that concern our country closely. Our family members, who have been treating Turkey, are waiting for us to take drastic steps, are having trouble making their voices known to us. I'm talking about inhuman massacres and incidents that began in Turfan, East Turkistan, on 26 June 2013. Mr. Abdulmecit Avsar, president of the Independent East Turkians' Association, is screaming for the voice of our relatives to speak to Turkey. Hundreds of Uygur Turks were killed in the events that began when a 7-year-old Uygur child was slaughtered by the Chinese. This brutality is a disgrace to human history. Many parents have lost their children, and many children have become orphans and orphans. We can't ignore this Muslim Turkish brutality as Mubarak enters Ramazan. We say to those who claim to be a great state at every turn that this silence, this acceptance, is not a great state attitude. Don't fool yourself, and don't fool our people. If the world is blind to events in East Turkistan, it is due to the economic and political influence that China has. Of course we'll have something to say to these countries. But can a Turkish person who remains silent and turns his back on events have such a right? If it remains silent, Europe will lose a few million dollars, tops, but Turkey, which plays three apes for its own descendants, commits crimes against its history, loses its faith in its people, and gives up its future claims. There is open violence in Turfan, in Hoten and Urumchi. Against unarmed people, the Chinese army deals with heavy weapons and tanks and kills Muslim Uygur Turks in joy. Behold! he was a dumb devil, silent in the face of oppression. Let us, of course, take all the Muslims in Egypt, Palestine, as much as we can, to stir up the Arab world, but our dear friends, the Uygur Turks, have no one but us, and Turkey remains silent. The President is silent, the Prime Minister is silent, the State Department is silent. Mursi's all there is, Egyptian coup. Turkey must not stray from its historic mission. As the National Movement Party, we invite the authorities to take office as well as use every democratic platform to give them a democratic response. At least let us display the sensitivity we show to Somalia, Myanmar, Cairo, Gaza, and to our brothers, who are on the other side of the world, in the unity and unity of religion, and in need of our help. The price of this silence, let us not forget, is being watered by both our nation and the Supreme Creator in this world. Vebal says this country will remain above the power that does not embrace our descendants who continue to live their lives in persecution all over the world, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0041par0187	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We would like to submit and propose that the declaration of birth be added after the release of Article 23 of Law 399, which is intended to be replaced by Article 67 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0042par0194	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0041par0195	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0043par0196	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0044par0197	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0041par0198	I'm reading the reason: The amendment also aims to include the maternity leave of contracted personnel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 68: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the proposal of Article 68 of Article 68 of the 478 Law, we propose and propose that the provision of the clause, which is required in Article 3 of the article, be replaced with all of its declarations. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Nazmi Gür Sırrı Sakık Abdullah Levent Tüzel Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478 to Make Changes in Decisions; Proposal of the 68th Article (2/1613, 1/778) of Plans and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Ercan Cengiz Kazim Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0045par0227	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0041par0228	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0046par0229	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0041par0230	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0232	Mr. President, on the way here, Mr. Shandir insisted: "Talk about the European Union, talk about this clause. We know what you will accept and how you will respond. So, what's the point of talking about it? That's what we're asking here. Now, whatever motion we gave you, you refused. After that, we continue to strongly submit the motion, and you continue to stubbornly reject the motions. And I reject your rejections, so let me underline that first. Come on, I'll say what I have to say about the European Union in this framework. You called the European Union a civilization project, you insulted our nation. The European Union is not a civilization project, it is a project of political and economic interests in the European Union, and the European Union reflects the political and economic interests of others. When it's necessary to act in this context, it's like when a civilizationless nation enters the European Union, it's going to reach civilization, and you're going to adopt a completely orientistic logic, and you're going to bring it into action. I resent that understanding and those who bring it up. Other than that, I also condemn those who make incredible sense of the European Union. Do you know the outcome of the European Union, the future and future of the European Union? Do you know what the future and future of the Justice and Development Party can be?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0048par0235	Do you know, Hajji?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0236	Let me tell you something: if you knew, you wouldn't be like this. He'll take advantage of the criticism brought by those other than you, and he'll...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0049par0237	Easy! Easy!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0238	Don't dance there! I'm saying some very serious things here. I'll say things so you can keep dancing there.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0050par0239	Hodja says drop my volley.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0240	You don't give me time, brother. Now, look, democracy, human rights, there's no need to enter the European Union to have universal values. There's no reason to let the European Union act like one or the other.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0051par0242	We're not doing that.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0243	We need to be human, we need to be aware of our culture, we need to internalize the values of this nation. That's what you're saying, and it's almost like you're prioritizing a servant's model.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0052par0244	Teacher, don't say that!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0245	Look, those who view the EU as a national stately union have no right to rebel against criticism from the EU. If you make the EU so sacred, every holy servant wants a servant, he wants a slave, and therefore you have to swallow everything he says and remain in his position.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0052par0246	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0247	I'm warning you, I'm warning you. I'm warning you, sweet and sweet, understand these things. You're sleeping and I'm saying it's moving and I'm saying it's a little bit more in your head. To connect Turkey's hope with entry into the EU, then to place its entry into the EU between Sarkozy or Merkel's two lips is to condemn a nation with a clear history of 2,500, 3,000 years.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0053par0249	Teacher, were you against the EU in the coalition?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0250	Representativeship can now be opened at the town centers needed. What if it does, what if it doesn't? Look, we have a saying: "After the camel is gone, you can't count the calf. " Try to learn this sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, time is short, but there are things I need to tell you because I see a deviation in your code. I think we have a duty to shake you up and bring you to your senses, which I will often try to explain to you by using various means as an excuse. Now, to go down in history, I'd like to say a few words about recent developments. One: democracy is not an import, it's not an export, understand that once. While you support the rebellion of Tahrir Square, the American-backed rebellion, the earlier rebellion, this time the same support from Tahrir Square...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0054par0253	Teacher, there was a difference, the first was the dictatorship.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0254	...America plus the European Union plus an Israeli-sponsored attitude, which we criticised and opposed within the framework of the elements at the time.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0055par0255	Now, which side are you on, Hajji?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0256	But I'm telling you, it's against democracy, it's against human rights, it's against existence. But here's the thing to be careful about: before that...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0056par0257	Sir, can you open these up a little bit?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0047par0258	I'll open it in a minute, if you'll excuse me. ... What happened in Egypt was also external, which is external. El Baradey, who came there, literally said: "A very large part of Israel has put into action a policy that is in line with the needs of the Israelites. " [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But what do we have to do to understand these things? I'll tell you about them when I get a chance.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0057par0263	Yes, Vahab chooses to speak on the other proposal of the same nature, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0058par0265	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the proposal that we have submitted in Article 68 of Law Proposal 478. Now, under Article 634 in Article 68, the Ministry of the European Union has been organized, you know. This motion envisions adding an additional joke to its third article. The European Union -- and I just tried to explain -- has a story as much as my age. Since 2002, your power has developed a lot of ambitious rhetoric in the relations of the European Union, and steps have been taken. Indeed, in particular, in the 22nd term, in the 23rd term, there were important law studies in the European Union talks, and this Parliament worked until morning. However, the desired success was not achieved. This is said in Article 68: Let's open a representative of the European Union in the cities in which it is needed. In our motion, we say there's no need for that. Really, why would it be necessary? Look, like I just said, the European Union is a 50-year-old story. Negotiations began on October 3, 2005. Croatia is also starting to negotiate at the same time, and recently, as of 1 July 2013, it becomes a member of the European Union. Our chapters still haven't been opened, their debates are opening from 33 chapters to 13 chapters. You know, the 22nd chapter has recently been opened as a result of major obstructions. Your government has engaged in major conflicts with the European Union regarding the travel park events. The European Union criticises the government's stance on freedom of speech and criticises police use of non-proportionate force. Of course he's right, but you applaud the European Union's praising of the government's actions, but you also use the same tone you use on us with harsh tones of criticism. Right now, our relations with the European Union or our negotiation process is completely failing, so we don't see any need for them, so let's not spend on expense; we don't think that the European Union diplomatic mission should be opened in the cities needed. Dear friends, we all know the developments in Egypt. Today, we received calls from the families of the drivers of transport vehicles carrying exports to that area. I'd like to warn the government authorities that 200 transport vehicles, the truck, are trapped there. There's, you know, fighting going on. Right now, truck drivers trapped there are in serious danger of life and property safety. Our relations with Syria have been corrupted. That, of course, was due to the government's wrong foreign policies. We had the opportunity to export Turkish export goods, especially to Middle Eastern countries, to Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Egypt, Syria, but after the development of Syrian affairs, a different alternative emerged. From the port of Mersin, the ro-ro and the transports went to Egypt by sea, where they could carry our export goods to the Middle East by land. But now that the developments in Egypt have been negative, Turkish export goods have come to a point where they cannot be exported. We say again: there's really no need for representations regarding the European Union, we don't think they'll be needed. Therefore, we would like to request that this clause be removed from the bill, from the proposal. I hope you'll support our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0059par0278	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0060par0279	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit03spe0059par0280	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the same two proposals as given on Article 68 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "All" may be "opened" by the "needed" clause 3 in the proposal of Article 3 of Article 68 of Law Proposal 478. It's "opens." We offer and offer to replace their terms. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0061par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0059par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0062par0013	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0063par0014	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0059par0015	I'm reading the reason: The diplomatic missions the ministry will open must be available and available to all citizens in need. Therefore, it would undermine public justice if those who need this service in another province were unable to benefit and access to the ministry in addition to those who serve as representatives in a province. For this reason, the ministry should be more positive and more accessible in the context of public services in all the provinces, opening these representations. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 69: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778), in the following way, to the amendment of Article 69, with the Law and State Officials Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal "The following sentence has been added to the second joke in Article 2 of Article 2 of the provisions of Article 69-634. As part of Article 3 of Law 5916, the appointment of those who were appointed to be appointed to the same rankings for the Ministry is not necessary, according to the results of the European Union Specialist's examination before the date of the Act." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Laws in accordance with Articles of Law and Law and Government Officers Law and Agreements under the Law and Law Law shall be made to be made under amendments. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0064par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0059par0039	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0065par0040	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0066par0041	Motive.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0059par0042	I'm reading the reason:
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0067par0043	Mr. President, what a disgrace!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0068par0044	You're not supposed to accept the reasons. In the Turkish Language Association Dictionary, the bag is "a vehicle usually touched by cotton and hair, in a manner of size and shape, that can shrink and bind its mouth." It is often described as a plastic or paper-made carryer, which can be of various sizes, which is used to put the stuff in it." The word "truck" added at the head of the "law" is a very accurate adjective that points to the mystery of "transportation function" on the one hand, as it is not always predictable in the other. When it comes to the law, it's the Civil Code. In its context, it is virtually impossible to speak of the spirit of the blood. The bag is subject to various surprises in terms of law and enforcement. For example, there are some items of bag law, motive traffic, that are either too complicated or without a motive. For this reason, the law on concrete legal dilemmas is often unable to work. In general, there are two types of lawmaking: one normal, the other accelerated. The normal procedure, based on matter-based discussion and voting, is technically "the usual way of life." The accelerated path is called the "special way of life." Our response to the method of special legislation has been a bit of a coercion of "principal law." The method of rapid law enforcement into Turkish parliamentary law in 1991 is 91 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In a term inspired by the title of its article, it is established as "the basic law." However, this use is mixed with the term "subject law" used for the first time in the field of legal reform, when referring to the main laws such as the Law of Civil Law, "The Law of Loans," "Turkish Penal Code." The basic method of law in practice refers to the compression of a file in computer terms, since it means that the law bill or proposal should be compressed into sections of non-30ths in the General Assembly talks. The CDM subcommittee is 91. In the matter, there is already a similar "boggling" of the definition of "subject law" in particular. After the amendments were made by the Constitutional Court, which had been cancelled several times, the waters were largely settled. Whatever the cost, the adoption of a bag of laws to speed up the process of legislation brings with it serious difficulties. The bag law presents problems not only in terms of the legislative process, but also in the process of implementing the bill or proposal after the law has been passed. The way to make a bag of laws requires that opposition and NGOs are effectively unable to participate in law-making processes. Besides, even lawmakers from the ruling party are troubled by content control over the effects of the bag of laws, which can cover all topics. In practice, although there is no such obligation, the bag of the basic law fuels the change in laws or laws that have soon changed in order to correct the mistakes of legislation, which are due to the rapid legalisation of the laws discussed under the law. In short, the bag of laws in our country are also a triggering factor in the need for new changes in the changing law. Due to these reasons, the amount taken under the bag law must be evaluated under the basic law, so it must be removed from the bill.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0069par0051	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; in accordance with the Law and Law Laws Act, we shall submit and propose the amendment of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends The following sentence has been added to the second joke of the temporary 2nd Article of the provisions of the Law, No. 69-634. "As part of Article 3 of Law 5916, the appointment of those appointed for the results of the European Union's Specialist's examination prior to the date of the Act of the Act of the Law is reserved for the results of the examination, and these are assigned to the same ranking staffs for the Ministry without any further consideration." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0070par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0069par0060	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0071par0061	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0069par0062	Celal Adan, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0072par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. While the elimination of court decisions by law does not suit a legal state, I would like to share a few issues with you in terms of the importance of the day. While the coup took place in Egypt, we strongly protested the will to identify the Travel Park in Turkey with Egypt and expose the birth of a spring. This is an insult to Turkey. Turkey has a tradition of democracy. Thus, we held the will as a nation at the point of guarding the ark until the end. I'm still protesting against those who want to make this dishonoration look like a Turkish nation.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0073par0067	Bravo, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0072par0068	Honorable MPs represent a country's civilization, its morality, its virtue, its virtues, the armed forces in battle. Those who covered the need for toilets on the soldiers they killed in Afghanistan, tortured the Iraqi prisoners naked in Abu Ghraib Prison, those who had killed a 18-year-old boy in Libya who had been shot in the head with a bullet in the head in a sewer pit in Libya, those who had burned Gaddafi, those who had burned Iraq, those who had committed suicide only because of the rape of 25,000 young girls, those who had mixed up Syria, those who had also destroyed Mursi. Now, I'd like to give you a warning from here. I looked at the Internet, I looked all over, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, the ministers of the state, the government, the United States of America, they didn't make any statements about it. Really, I find that very thought-provoking. MEHMET CEMAL PRISON (Fishesir) was the Deputy Prime Minister. If he did, thank you. Now, here, there's the crocodile. The Prime Minister left, and in the United States, they had a really high conversation in that secret room, or in a room called the red room. As someone walked through the Travel Park, the crocodile practically opened its mouth, saying, "We are following Turkey." Now, dear lawmakers, don't be so touchy. I know the old, I know the foreign minister from the university. I gave that book "Strategic Depth" to maybe 100 people, but let me tell you something sincerely: I compare the statements made by the Foreign Minister to the war fugitives in Japan. Yesterday, he says he didn't sleep until morning, met with the US Secretary of State, met with the Qatar Foreign Minister... Dear MPs, we, the National Movement Party, trust Turkey, trust the Turkish nation, trust the unity and unity of the Turkish nation to the end. There are two U.S. bases in Kandil. The United States has the PKK in Kandil. The trouble you're in is the government's trouble, the United States of America. Last year, the crocodile's extension represents the will of the solution process in Van, Hakkari. The ambassador of the United States, shamelessly, unrecognised. On the one hand, you will hand the bandit over to Turkey because he will not be declared guilty. You will move the separatist, racist movement to Turkey. Come and see the PKK camps in Kandil. You will say, "You will put a sack on the soldier's head, you will burn down all the oxygen fields and you will be a man of reason without shame in Turkey." We haven't heard a word from you, valued lawmakers, valued executives. Now, what I'm trying to say here, by putting it down here, is that the European Union is the same thing. Although the Turkish nation's nobility, mercy, compassion is being shot at, the Turkish nation will hold democracy until the end. You're creating a memory loss, precious group vice president. Before 2002, the Turkish nation fought for a great democracy. After 60, he replaced the Democratic Party, and after 80, he brought Özal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] An understanding of a democracy struggle that began with 2002 is a misunderstanding. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0074par0080	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 70th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the statement of the National Youth Council of Turkey to be replaced as the National Youth Council, which is expected to be added to the Constitutional Court's decision on the Offices of the Ministry of Youth and Sports under Article 638 in Article 70 of the Common Law Proposal of the Council of Turkey, and that the declaration of the National Youth Council of Turkey shall be adopted after the declaration of the Council of Youth and its ideas. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Nazmi Gür Secret Sakık Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tiered Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of the 70th Article of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal "UNIGHDE 70-3/6/2011 and 638 of Youth and Sports Ministry No. 638 added the following clause to the decision on the Agency and its duties. "EK MADDE 1- (1) is the Turkish Youth Council where young people have formed or are active in social, economic and political areas within the ministry to contribute to the policies that will be produced in the field of youth, to implement national and international work and projects, to help co-ordinate young and youth organisations and to increase their participation in decision-making and implementation processes, or to participate in youth activities, foundations, federations, youth clubs, youth councils, youth councils, youth councils, and so-called youth councils. The Ministry budget provides sufficient funding for the Council to carry out its activities. (2) The establishment of the Council, its operation, its administration, its duties and its control, and the Council's working procedures and bases and issues are organised by regulations to be adopted by the Council of Ministers." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 70th Article of the Law Proposal be removed from its text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0075par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0074par0111	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0076par0112	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0074par0113	Yes, it's Aytuğ Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0077par0115	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the number 478 rows of the underlying Bill of the Law on Article 70. I salute the lawmakers who stand behind his signature, who do not vote against his own research motion. My dear friends, we've asked that this substance be removed from the text of matter. Why would we do that? Look, this is a motion that should be considered, from this angle. The article says: I will establish the National Youth Council of Turkey within the ministry. Let's set up a National Youth Council. And what will this council do? It says: I draw attention to young people's active participation and personal development in political areas. Now, over the past month, when we look at events that have been happening for over a month, they've already wanted to be active in the political community. These young people decided, and they said, "We are in both social and political areas, and we are in attendance." So, what did your government do? Just yesterday, security forces patted the back and back of those who tried to butcher the young with a machete.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0078par0120	Oh, man! Boo!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0079par0121	Yeah, he's in custody, don't do that! Don't provoke me! Look, don't provoke this, please! Don't provoke me! They were arrested, and it turns out they had nothing to do with the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0077par0122	Yes, they've been arrested...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0080par0124	Shame on you! Shame!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0081par0125	Congressmans, please, Mr. Group Vice President will respond.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0077par0126	Yes, they were arrested. Just because they were arrested before that doesn't mean they weren't patted on the back.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0082par0128	Damn, he's a broke shopper! You're still trying to eat from here!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0083par0129	There was an announcement yesterday.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0084par0130	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0085par0131	Just yesterday, the people who had a stick and claimed to be undercover officers, the young people who beat up our children on the streets.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0086par0133	Who beat you up?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0085par0134	I'm not making this up, I'm going through it myself, seeing for myself...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0087par0135	Boo!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0088par0136	You're saying the script you wrote in your head.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0089par0137	Is this a job?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0090par0138	I've asked you with a motion to question the seriousness of my national power of attorney. I told you guys, yell all you want...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0088par0139	Talk about the script you wrote in your head!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0091par0140	Tell it to Esed!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0092par0141	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0093par0142	...you won't be able to do anything with screaming. If you don't scream, we can understand each other. I asked you, I said to the Home Secretary, do security forces have sticks in police inventory? No response.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0094par0145	There's a machete!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0093par0146	Is there a nail stick in the police inventory? No response. My dear friends, you are not in the squares, we are in the squares, we are in the squares, and we see them.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0095par0149	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0096par0150	What are you doing in the squares? You'll be here, what are you doing in the square!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0097par0151	What are you doing in the square?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0098par0152	What are you doing here?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0099par0153	Why are you shouting?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0100par0154	Please, lawmakers, let's not interrupt your honor.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0099par0155	Guys, you can keep yelling in guilt, and I'll understand that.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0101par0156	Mr. President, sir, I can't hear the preacher, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0100par0157	I warn you, Mr. Hamzacebi, how many times have I warned you? You're right.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0099par0158	But your shouting and shouting will never be enough to cover up your disgrace in the field of division.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0102par0160	It's your disgrace!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0100par0161	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0099par0162	I mean, I can't pick everything out of screaming like this. I can't choose everything, but one of you said, "What are you doing in the square?" We will continue to be where the people are.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0103par0164	Don't stretch the coven! That's enough, that's enough!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0100par0165	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0099par0166	When you spray the public with pepper spray, when you beat the public with a baton, we'll be there. I'll pick up where I left off in the following items. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0104par0170	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. In accordance with the 478-tiered Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the amendment of the 70th Article of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "UNIGHDE 70-3/6/2011 and 638 of Youth and Sports Ministry No. 638 added the following clause to the decision on the Agency and its duties. "EK MADDE 1- (1) is the Turkish Youth Council where young people have formed or are active in social, economic and political areas within the ministry to contribute to the policies that will be produced in the field of youth, to implement national and international work and projects, to help co-ordinate young and youth organisations and to increase their participation in decision-making and implementation processes, or to participate in youth activities, foundations, federations, youth clubs, youth councils, youth councils, youth councils, and so-called youth councils. The Ministry budget provides sufficient funding for the Council to carry out its activities. (2) The establishment of the Council, its operation, its administration, its duties and its control, and the Council's working procedures and bases and issues are organised by regulations to be adopted by the Council of Ministers." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0105par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0104par0181	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0106par0182	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0104par0183	Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0107par0185	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Article 70 of Law Proposal 478. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers organise the establishment of the National Youth Council on Article 70. I hereby declare that we are part of this provision brought with the 70th Amendment as the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, effective participation in all economic and social areas of youth is crucial to the development and development of the country. Supporting young people's personal and social development, preparing the means and grounds that they can fully reveal their potential, providing effective participation in all areas of economic and social life should be made important. In this regard, it is important to direct young people to sports. With individual, economic and social aspects, sports have a very important place in the development of healthy generations, in protecting public health, in developing the economy, in establishing social peace and brotherhood, in developing social life. Therefore, the development of sports and sports culture throughout Turkey, the growing of licensed athletes, increasing number of infrastructure projects, the promoting of Olympic sports and sports spirit in society, the making of talented young people as elite athletes. To achieve common understanding, vision, politics, and goals in the field of youth and sports is the most dynamic area in the direction of Turkey's power, size and leadership. National youth and sports policies that will guide youth and sports in order to co-ordinate and co-operation in the services and activities of concerned public institutions and NGOs and other shareholders. No member of our country can be sacrificed, every human being is valued, all of our young people deserve opportunity and opportunity. All sons of Turkey have proved what they can accomplish with the right practices and goals. It is the common wish of all our citizens to see the spirit of carrying our moon-star flag on your chest, of singing our Artificial March in the organizations, of representing our country in the most beautiful way. In this sense, young people should be the basis of projects, providing high participation for our young people in projects. Young people are indispensable to the continued development of societies where they live with their ideals and goals. In addition, the steps toward solving the problems that young people face today are vital for the development of societies and future generations. This is why it is important for young people to form public communication channels that are appropriate for young people, given their age, gender, economic, social, family and cultural status, education levels, places where they live, and so on. Our young people are now fully aware of innovations in proportion to the world's developments. This awareness must be understood correctly and directed to the right goals. Of course, projects that are fundamentally unprivileged are not possible. Turkey, which has a young population, has dynamics, needs to develop and implement multi-directional programmes in this direction, rather than limiting areas such as sports and education to a period or process. All projects involving young people will, of course, bring solutions, as well as many problems within themselves. Therefore, in revealing the potential of young people, educators need to be conscious, open to innovation and leader. As in the world, one of the main problems that young people face in our country arises at the point of completion of the training period and integration into the labor force. Young people suffer from work for reasons such as lack of knowledge of the field of employment, job definitions, non-recognisment of occupational diversity, lack of guidance and career services, and lack of experience. Dear lawmakers, it is wrong to view young people's culture as merely popular culture. It is very important that generations of people who feed on national culture, who are equipped with our cultural values, who have the right knowledge of our customs and traditional arts, have the right knowledge of their country's history, its rich savings, and therefore its youth. I salute you all with the desire for this kind of youth to be brought up.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0108par0194	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0109par0195	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit04spe0108par0196	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0108par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on Article 70 was not enough to vote on the motion given by Elazig MP Enver Erdem and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the statement of the National Youth Council of Turkey to be replaced as the National Youth Council, which is expected to be added to the Constitutional Court's decision on the Offices of the Ministry of Youth and Sports under Article 638 in Article 70 of the Common Law Proposal of the Council of Turkey, and that the declaration of the National Youth Council of Turkey shall be adopted after the declaration of the Council of Youth and its ideas. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0110par0012	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0108par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0111par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0112par0015	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0108par0016	I'm reading the reason: For young people who are defined for the purposes of the supplement to participate actively in the political field, the think tank established by university students and the idea club must also be part of the council. Again, it is important that the council be represented on the council in its different views for the capture of the desired level in events that will be held by young people from all different parts of society. Its name, again, will be more constructive and inclusive, as it temporarily becomes the Youth Council of Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 71: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of the 7th Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act and some Laws Act. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear "UNE 71-26/9/2011 has been added to the 1st article of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Court of Justices and the Supreme Court of Prosecutors, and the Court of Justices and the Court of Public Governments under the General Budget" (including the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Court of Prosecutors and the Court of Justices). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 478 rows in which there are 478 rows in which there are amendments to the provisions of the Law and Budget Commission, and 71 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports, under the Law and Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Aytuğ Atcı Süleyman Çelebi Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0113par0040	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0108par0041	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0114par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0108par0043	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0115par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 71st article of Bill of Law 478, which we are discussing. I salute the lawmakers who have made the law in accordance with the law of law and law enforcement. My dear friends, for a long time now, the Clave has been nervous, the House is tired, we're all tired, we're all nervous. Every step we take, every word we say, we get that from the reaction. Turkey is tired, Turkey is nervous, and we understand that from the tensions on the street. Now, look, I brought you an example, a very vivid example. I'll give you a clear example of why we don't trust you. Congressmans, look, I usually speak out loud, but look, I'm going to tell you something very calmly, and you're not going to accept this shame without a party difference.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0116par0050	We're listening, brother, tell us, we're listening!
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0115par0051	I was just telling you, I didn't just yell, you yelled. Now, look, why don't we trust you? Look, guys, I've got the Department of Health of the Republic of Turkey's Department of Health, County Health, Human Resource Planning Guide. He's been sent to all the county health departments, new. This guide has some laws to uphold. See, this guide is based on Article 3359 of the Basic Law of Health. It also states that it is based on Article 3, 8 and 47. The Ministry of Health opened a parentheses after the 47th article, and it says: "This canceled substance will be removed with a bag of laws." Look, go online, take a look at the book published by the Ministry of Health. Look, this is not the work of the opposition, it's the work of Parliament. In a situation that undermines Parliament's reputation, we all need to fight hand in hand. The Constitutional Court has revoked Article 47 of the Constitutional Court of Law No. 663. This clause the Constitutional Court has cancelled -- it's called by the Health Department -- will be removed with a bag of law. Now, why are we here, fellas? Why are the AKP MPs here? Why are the People of the CHP, the People of the MHP, the People of the BDP here? Since it's been decided, the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been ignored, why are we here? One. And I'll tell you what's worse: Mr. President's will is also ignored here. Look, we can beat each other up, we do it from time to time. Then, why are you angry today? Someone comes and kisses me on the cheek, and I say to him, "I'm sorry if I hurt you." Even though our ideas are separate, we will continue to do our duty without hurting each other as much as possible. We try to maintain our opposition method as best we can, but this document, this new document, has ignored the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've all been cursed. This clause also ignored the President. Because the laws we passed here, Mr. President, if he sees fit, he'll approve, and if he doesn't agree, he'll return them here. But he says: 'It will be removed exactly. Now, come and trust this government; come and trust it.' You have a government that ignores your own will, my friends.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0117par0059	It's our will.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0115par0060	Congressman, if this is your will, then I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0117par0061	We'll get it out in order.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0115par0062	If you've handed over your will to the Ministry of Health, to the bureaucrats there, I'm asking you to make your way clear.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0117par0063	Amen.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0115par0064	I don't even see the need to talk about anything else.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit05spe0118par0066	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll give you a minute, and we'll vote on the electronic device. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough decision-making, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0118par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision issued by Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 71. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of the 7th Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act and some Laws Act. "UNE 71-26/9/2011 has been added to the 1st article of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Court of Justices and the Supreme Court of Prosecutors, and the Court of Justices and the Court of Public Governments under the General Budget" (including the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Court of Prosecutors and the Court of Justices). S. Nevzat Don't Fear (Isparta) and Friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0119par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0118par0014	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0120par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0118par0016	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0121par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, forming an institution or a council, establishing a law to establish an organization, the responsibility of parliament will not be eliminated, it must not be removed. Watching these laws produce consequences is a need for modern legislation today to create additional measures, if necessary. Many parliaments now have commissions to monitor law enforcement. There's an agency that's been created after the requirements for public administration and the changes in security, as you all know, private security. There are around 170,000 of them, and with their families, they get a million. From the shortcomings of private security training agencies in the sector, legislation is needed to be reviewed until the retrial of its members' rights. According to yesterday, private security has become more important today. He has become the target of terrorism as well as the protection and prevention services provided by the police and the gendarmes. However, the result of companies competing in comparison is that the bill for the need to lower costs goes to private security, and they face negative conditions of work and low wages. Working in slave status has become their destiny. The government stands beside capital, by the power, by staying silent, rather than by taking part in the sweat of the government's labor, in the face of the fierce efforts of capitalist understanding and profit to be maxisized in this area. I've stated before in this House that a force of 170,000 armed men is a special security force. It's bigger than the army of many countries. However, 60 per cent of the 300 private security agencies that are active in the market are in the hands of foreigners. We're suggesting that this is a matter of serious concern for our national security. There are also steps that members of this organization expect from the Assembly. What's all this? Private security to protect a place can only be used by the authority to use a weapon that is known to ordinary citizens. This authority must be specially rearranged. The VAT rate in the sector must be reduced to 8 per cent. If this is not done, the burden on companies will continue, and it will result in a lower quality of education and further low wages. It is necessary to take wages out of the price of poverty and to a level of right proportional to the risks and dangers they carry professionally. Again, clothes and logos must be standardized. The severance issues must be resolved. Private security returned to ping-pong ball between employers and service buyers must be recovered from this. Annually paid, the right to leave is not allowed from time to time. In particular, the employer and the service institution must be prevented from enjoying it. Private security fiscal responsibility insurance must be redefined in general, and this compensation system must be activated due to the unintended personal damage of its members. This threat of compensation, which is already hanging over their pennies, must be eliminated. The industry needs to open up its expertise and union membership. These problems of the private security agency have been addressed by the National Movement Party for years. But unfortunately, we're complaining that we're going to steal it ourselves and then we're going to be able to sing it ourselves. Their problems are growing exponentially. These problems are based on whether or not their nest is permanent anymore. I say we are now waiting for the government to step forward without further delay to resolve these righteous problems, and we expect them to have a human level of wage and human working conditions, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0032	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The 72nd article (a) has three proposals, and I read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and of the First Amendment of the 72th Article (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and the Charter Commission (2/1613, 1/778), and of the First Article (a) of the Charter of the Charter (a) of the Charter of the Charter of the Law and Law and Law (a) and of the Commission of Transportation (2/1613, and of the Charter Commission of Commerce (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan "a) The statement in the second joke of Article 8 "the minimum in at least two weeks" was changed in the form of "the duration" in his fifth joke, in the form of "ten days," and in his seventh joke, the "resolvement and auditing of decisions," which were "the decisions will be finalized from the date of decision, and the decisions which are in order to be regulated and audited" have been removed from the scope of the fourth and tenth. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the removal and removal of the provision of the Article 660 of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution (A) from the text of the Article of the Law (A), which is intended to be replaced by Article 72 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Nazmi Gür Secret Sakık Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the adoption of Article 72-a of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports through the Law and State Officers Act on the Amendment to certain Law and Laws. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Süleyman Çelebi Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0123par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0124par0062	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0125par0063	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0064	I'm reading the reason: Since the council's weekly collection is in line with the work bases, the offer of a change has been requested to maintain the old state.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0126par0067	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0068	I'm reading the reason: In the Turkish Language Association Dictionary, the bag is "a vehicle usually touched by cotton and hair, in a manner of size and shape, that can be tightened and gagged": 2. It is often described as a plastic or paper-made carryer, which can be of various sizes, which is used to put the stuff in it." The word "truck" added at the head of the "law" is a very accurate adjective that points to the mystery of "transportation function" on the one hand, as it is not always predictable in the other. When it comes to the law, it's the Civil Code. In its context, it is virtually impossible to speak of the spirit of the blood. The bag is subject to various surprises in terms of law and enforcement. For example, there are some items of bag law, motive traffic, that are either too complicated or without a motive. For this reason, the law on concrete legal dilemmas is often unable to work. In general, there are two types of lawmaking: one normal, the other accelerated. The normal procedure, based on matter-based discussion and voting, is technically "the usual way of life." The accelerated path is called the "special way of life." Our response to the method of special legislation has been a bit of a coercion of "principal law." The method of rapid law enforcement into Turkish parliamentary law in 1991 is 91 of the TBM Council. In a term inspired by the title of its article, it is established as "the basic law." However, this use is mixed with the term "subject law" used for the first time in the field of legal reform, when referring to the main laws such as the Law of Civil Law, "The Law of Loans," "Turkish Penal Code." The basic method of law in practice refers to the compression of a file in computer terms, since it means that the law bill or proposal should be compressed into sections of non-30ths in the General Assembly talks. The CDM subcommittee is 91. In particular, there is a similar "bossing" on the subject of the definition of "the basic law." After the amendments were made by the Constitutional Court, which had been cancelled several times, the waters were largely settled. Whatever the cost, the adoption of a bag of laws to speed up the process of legislation brings with it serious difficulties. The bag law presents problems not only in terms of the legislative process, but also in the process of implementing the bill or proposal after the law has been passed. The way to make a bag of laws requires that opposition and NGOs are effectively unable to participate in law-making processes. Besides, even lawmakers from the ruling party are troubled by content control over the effects of the bag of laws that can cover all topics. In practice, even though such a requirement does not exist, the bag is fueled by changing laws or laws that soon change in order to correct the mistakes of legislation due to the rapid legalisation of the fundamental law. In short, the bag of laws in our country are also a triggering factor in the need for new changes in the changing law. Due to these reasons, the amount taken under the bag law must be evaluated under the basic law, so it must be removed from the bill. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and the First Amendment of the 72th Article of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) have been proposed and proposed by the Bayınıllik, Immar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "a) The statement in the second joke of Article 8 "the minimum in at least two weeks" was changed in the form of "the duration" in his fifth joke, in the form of "ten days," and in his seventh joke, the "resolvement and auditing of decisions," which were "the decisions will be finalized from the date of decision, and the decisions which are in order to be regulated and audited" have been removed from the scope of the fourth and tenth. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0127par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0083	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0128par0084	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0129par0085	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0086	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The deadline for signing the board's decisions is reduced to ten days. The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who are under Act 4924, and those who meet the conditions of the contractors and the teachers of the substitute Koran course. However, among the contracted staff and representatives given the staff: there are no 4/C victims who are rarely victimized. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. The citizen's right to block the freedom of right to search for rights and to intervene in the judiciary has the right to information on questions and answers related to the PSYM exams. The public interest in its capital is directly or indirectly excluded from the Court's control of companies, which are less than 50%. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The 72nd article (b) has two proposals of the same nature, so I'm going to read them and process them together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478 to Amendment in Articles 478 and Proposal of the First Article of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) and Proposal of the First Article of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and We propose the adoption of Article 72/b of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports for Development, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, and Plan and Budget Commission Reports. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Is the commission in?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0130par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0113	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0131par0114	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0122par0115	On the proposal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0132par0117	Mr. President, I'd like to welcome the respected MPs of the Turkish nation, as we have submitted a motion to change the 72nd amendment of Proposition No. 478. I salute your high council. Article 72 of the proposal (b) abolishes Article 660 of Article 9 (n) of Resolution 660. We consider it appropriate that this judgment be removed from the text of the article, which is not yet two years old. Our motion is in this condition, subject to your approval. This proposal, which we negotiated, combines the government bill with an offer made by 102 lawmakers and aims to change the decision in the amount of law and law that I can express as undetectable. The proposal and the commission report in front of us contains such disastrous statements and judgments, which is impossible to believe. The bidders, the signees, don't know the content because they didn't read it, they just signed it, because it wasn't prepared by them, someone made it. It's known as the Commission, but it takes a serious expertise to determine how many articles he's been released from the Commission. In the General Assembly, the commission reports, which are basically a blind wand, only have the Publicity, the Development Commission Report, and there are no other commission reports, because they haven't been discussed even though they've been transferred. Reason: we're in a hurry to get him out of here, right? Well, we've been working for months, so why didn't you bring it sooner? Answer: If it is studied at a large time, if it is negotiated, the demons hidden inside the proposal will be revealed. For him, we're asked to pass through the General Assembly in a tight and tight time without waking anyone up. In this mess, the representatives of the ruling wing, who own the proposal, are already raising their hands and voting for acceptance without looking at its contents. We're trying to point out the wrong, unfair, unfair parts and warn the ruling party's esteemed deputies, but it's futile. Most of the time, the fingers go up without even knowing what they're up to, and the admissions vote paints parades. Believe me, every party leader prays for such a parliamentary staff. How many articles will the bill come out of the General Assembly, which only the Lord God knows. We're just waiting for nothing to happen at the General Assembly because there are still new demands coming from public institutions, and the motions are lining up. As a result of all of this, the work increases both by the hour and by the day. This has already exceeded the official holiday day, leading to the tension of parliamentary work on MPs. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, despite all their negative aspects, is the law that arises in a tight time with tense negotiations able to respond to the needs of society? I wish we could say yes, but unfortunately, the answer to that question is no. It is not possible to say that this proposal solves the problems of contracting personnel with 4/B. It is impossible to say that this proposal solves the problems of contracting personnel according to private law. It is impossible to say that this proposal solves the problems of temporary personnel from 4/C. It is impossible to say that this proposal solves the problems of temporary and seasonal workers. It is impossible to say that this proposal solves the problems of workers who have graduated from college and who work as technical staff. It is not possible to say that the public has been able to solve the problems of subcontractors, who, as it were, have had gangrene, who are the main and regular jobs of the state, who are being run like a slave system. Thus, it is not possible to say that our work on the day of the holy Ramadan month contains very good work for the state and the nation. We're wondering where the arrangement for subcontractors is, even though it's promised by members of the government in all public. Don't you ever think of public education masters? Aren't they the people of this country too, why don't you remember? Our cops are looking you in the eye, wondering where your promises are. Why do you withhold 3600 additional indicators, even simpler and clearer, from our most depressed police officers with the highest suicide rate? Why isn't theirs when the equal security guard's addendum is 3600? How are you willing to let the rights of the legitimate professions, the executives of your governments, who do all the work, who are capable of the most critical tasks? Is it not justice to hand over the rights of pensioners without benefiting from first class practice? Have we not heard from our former Minister Idris Naim Şahin Bey as well as from Muammer Güler Bey? Yeah, we heard and we're glad. So, why doesn't the government put this offer in the bag? Representatives of the government and the government are the most important officers of the unitary state structure of the property managers. Or are you saying that we're going to break down the U.S. structure anyway, and there won't be any need to manage the property? With these feelings, I request the acceptance of our motion, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0133par0124	Thank you. It's Free Special Congressman Manisa who wants a word on the same motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0134par0127	Thank you, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, and I salute the High Council. First of all, I'd like to express our grief over yesterday. I'd like to extend my regards to our Şırnak MP Mehmet Emin Dindar. What happened yesterday did not suit Parliament; it did not suit Turkey. We all probably have lessons to learn from yesterday's stress, with his opposition, with his power, with the Parliamentary administration, to avoid where we were yesterday, but first, I find it very helpful to express that today is the 7th day, we are working nonstop. We're almost up for five nights. No one's in a bad mood anymore, and I don't remember having a fight like this during normal hours, 9:00 a.m., 10:00 a.m., during the week. There are, of course, faults on both sides in the fight, but the biggest flaw is that we all have to admit that the entire year-long legislature is not doing its part, and then, in recent days, all the ministries -- of course, there's a little bit of surrender to bureaucracy -- and there's a significant impact on the idea of execution and living -- and that, in this case, we all need to admit that there's an inhuman working here that causes this. Other than that, this Parliament, each of us is here with the votes we received. We have to stand up for the political duties of any two people, not to compete, not to quarrel, but to deal with the things that we can tolerate from time to time. But what we shouldn't do, I suppose, is physical intervention. By the time he reached this point, he slipped out of the prime minister's mouth, and maybe I'm holding 50 percent of it in. It's not an accurate expression, but -- it's a statement in Parliament where MPs walk on each other, push each other, push each other, hit each other, hit him, hurt him, not exactly, but the wrong message to the streets. We can get as hard as we can in the argument, but the point of physical intervention is not acceptable. At this point, we all have to learn, we must have learned. But let's just say that from time to time, we all enjoy the wonderful advice of Sheikh Edebali. It's more, in fact, a piece of advice that puts power in full responsibility. I think that the harsh criticism from the ruling party's opposition party may be that they can't bear what they think of themselves, that sheikh Edebali, who, when read it, spreads a smile on the edge of his lips, should think of his advice to his son. The instruments in the opposition's hands are criticism, counterproposals. From time to time, the power of power, especially when the opposition has narrowed down the opposition's field, is often encountered in the world parliaments to speak up, to bring their criticism to the point of obstruction, to a twelve-hour obstruction, to point out what one of our deputies did last year, to bring attention to the matter, and to make all the televisions that the world has cut off and given it to you alive, when it's in its own parliaments history of politics, it's a little bit like that, by pointing at our MP's own group speech, by shrinking, by shrinking, by shrinking, by making a point that we're going to do this -- you know, by saying, if you do something like, we're going to do this -- we're going to do this -- we're going to do this -- we're going to do this -- we're going to do this -- when we're going to do this -- when we're going to do this -- -- when we're going to do this -- when we're going to do this -- when we're going to do this -- when we're going to do this -- when we're going to -- when we're going to -- -- when we're going to -- when we're going to -- when we're going to -- we're going to -- when we're going to -- we're going to -- -- we're going to -- when we're going to -- when we're going to -- when we're going to -- -- -- -- -- -- when we're going to -- We have a lot to say. By this morning, maybe ten times each of us will be on this stand, meaning something, but this Parliament has to have its own law, its own friends, and its own immunity. The last time I had an unpleasant scuffle in high school was after a basketball game with Izmir Ataturk High Schoolers. From that day until June 12, 2011, I had no immunity, no one came and touched me, but I have had immunity for two years, and there was no limit to the kick, or the slap. This doesn't suit us. It doesn't suit you. I also accept our own flaw in this matter and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0135par0134	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 72nd article (c) has two proposals on the same property, so I'm going to read them and process them together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of Article 72/c of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with a draft draft draft draft of the Law and Laws Act. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Mustafa Moroğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478 to Amendment in Articles 478 and Proposal of the First Article of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and Proposal of the First Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandir Mehmet Günal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0136par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0137par0153	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0138par0154	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0139par0155	Motive... The postings of the vice presidents and office presidents must be made by the board. The appointment by the minister would undermine the autonomy of the institution. The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. It's Free Special Congressman Manisa who wants a word on the same motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0140par0161	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I just tried to make it clear. Parliament is united by its power and opposition; we have certain responsibilities to each other. When we think about it differently, it's sad that everyone's moved to a place that hasn't happened yet, but the Parliament has to have its rights, its law as a whole. This is the most legitimate ground in Turkey and democracy, such as legislature -- no matter where anyone gets their legitimacy. The legitimacy of this floor is undisputed, but you need to know how to approach this floor without a power-opportunity distinction. For example, when a BDP MP gets slapped by the police, we talk all the time, so it's bad to put a hand on a congressman, but he does this. When a CHP MP eats gas somewhere, when he eats a baton, yes, it's fine if he doesn't, but... it goes on behind him. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] In this assembly, no one maintains the law of another without saying, "I'm sorry." Each person maintains their own position, and then an approach is made so that the period can be fulfilled. But this isn't just about physical interference. I've just mentioned that lawmakers who have not been dealt with without immunity can occasionally face police violence, from time to time, the actual interference of their own friends, but they all come and go, so these kind of wounds close quickly. We're all political people. One day, before a vacation, one day, at the end of the legislature, one day we'll be allowed to travel to each other's constituency, but there's something that doesn't go. Parliament is losing ground in democracy. During a prosecutor's call to testify on an MIT operation last year, Mr. Prime Minister stopped and said, "I don't feed my bureaucrat first." This terminology, for one thing, is a jargon that we should have left thousands of years ago, where people really shouldn't talk about people. But power likes it, it uses it. We don't think anyone's going to eat anyone in this day and age, but he said, "I don't feed my undersecretary." He didn't feed his undersecretary, but he held this Parliament with a material law given by Mr. Recep Private, which brought the Parliament with regard to a matter that was being discussed in the judiciary, and he went through this Parliament with a decree that the executive had established on legislation, and he attacked the court and restricted its field of action. If that's not enough, we're faced with another sanction every day. Now, our late Minister of Health is here, and I've just tried to explain it to him. I didn't mean it at all, but in a sense of humor. Now, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey has sent a guide to the municipal health departments of human resources planning. Now, you open this guide; it has a lot to study, it has a lot to do with it, but it says that this guide is based on Article 3359, Article 3 of the Basic Law of Health Services, Article 663, Article 3, 8, 47. We all know it was cancelled by the Supreme Court. When this article is written on how to edit this, there's time, but they say -- they've opened a parentheses -- they say that this suspended substance will be removed with a bag of law. Now, underneath that is the signature of a minister. Mr. Secretary knows that other than this signature, there are a lot of initials in a copy of the ministry. A lot of bureaucrats in those initials say to Mr. Minister: "We bureaucrats don't count the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as bureaucrats, we know what they're going to decide and we order it. A bag will be taken out with the law. Days after this article was written, this bag of laws actually came, the Minister stood behind it. If the ruling party is coming, let's take a vacation. If it doesn't, you'll bring the health bag and meet here. Just like these bureaucrats say, it went through the commission. That's what I'm talking about when Parliament owns its own law. If everyone's comfortable here, I'm not comfortable with it, but I'm not comfortable with it, guys. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0141par0173	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0142par0175	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit06spe0141par0176	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0141par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was no sufficient number of decisions on the 72nd article (c) to vote on the two motions of the same property. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is enough of it, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the third section are complete. We will now begin the talks of section four. The fourth section was the subbends (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5); (b) the subbends of the bend (1) and (2); (c) the subbends of the bend (1) and (2); (c), (e), (e) and (f) thebents of the paragraph (1) and (2); (g) the subbends of the bend (1) and (2); (h) the subbends of the bend (1), (2) and (3); (i), (i), (i), and (i) the me, and (2) the me (i) of the subbents of the bend (1) and (2). On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0143par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the fourth chapter of the current Law Proposal 478. I hereby salute the grand jury. This law-making process has become a classic of the AKP. Knowing that such a method is not true, the AKP Group is trying to run things with an extremely shallow legal understanding. By following a transparent and accountable method, we firmly believe that it is necessary to address this issue to the law and take it to a good legal level. As such in the Law of the Court, we face a power that fears transparency, control. There are similar things in this regard: the commissions are short-handed, and we're trying to put a whole lot of work on one person. If the bill becomes legal, it's possible to get a quality government service. Often change prevents it. Unfortunately, the AKP is bringing proposals and proposals in a limited Turkish language. In order to perform a qualified legislative activity, there must first be a healthy dialogue between the person and institutions involved in the law-making process, and the cooperation must also be established. But the AKP government doesn't have that problem, it doesn't have that desire, it doesn't have that desire. As a secondary arrangement in this bill -- as in other plans -- you are compiling TUSKON, not LESSlAD. Your own congressional friends, a member of the CISIAD, are waiting to see if we can stand up to this, and they're turning to us. I don't count other institutions, other institutions. The reasons for the motions are complained by the power, but only when the name of the law lasts eight minutes -- we tested it, by having members of the ruling party read it to their staff -- there are no complaints, no complaints from the ruling party. Dear lawmakers, as we discussed the Protection of the Consumption Act upstairs two days ago, we saw there that the profits in the bill brought by the AKP (AKP) were interest-related, and we saw that the dividend was equal to interest. In this regard, a little meaning was tried to be changed as a result of the acceptance of objections from fellow AKP MPs who had a guilty conscience. I mean, what do you do in the events you bring in, in the offers, with a system that is meaningless, highly contrary to your own opinion? You're trying to work. There are friends here who are involved. There are members of the Commission who are disturbed. They belong to power. But no matter how hard you try to change it, you can't solve it. Other than that, Congress is making the law, not the law. The arrangement with a few substances is done with a large number of substances. Sometimes the subject of dozens of substances is reduced to a substance. When the government is weak, bureaucracy is trying to scrutinize everything in the text of the law to protect itself from future events. As a result, as the law has a short life span, there is a law and a law of more than sufficient substance. You're looking at motive, it's not responding to material, it's a line, it's three pages. In addition to lack of coordination: the six-point bill for clearing mines on the Syrian border continued between May 12th and June 3rd. What has the opposition done in front of the very clear and clear world today that has proved to be right about that matter? He made us right. It wasn't the abuse of the Civil Code. What was it? It was an extremely useful event that had seen the days of those days. Mr. Bozdağ talks about the abundance of proposals, but the government brings 49-point bills, 16 of which are temporary, 2 executives, in effect, 31 articles, 54 proposals. What's right about that? Now it's impossible to say that this is a proper design, and that's different from what I'm telling you. When we look at this bill, there's a wrong correction, there's a lack of completion, there's a literature of the thing that never happened, there's abuse. Even though you've been warned many times, there's a restructuring of the issues you've made against the law. There are career occupational arrangements that concern different ministries. There's more than you can count in the personnel regulations you've disgraced. There's an EXPO incident in Izmir, and it's pretty obvious what it's become. The Ministry of Health has personal information to collect, store, share, and issues related to Law 2022. If you're so powerful, if you open up and look at the Symposium notes, if you're sincere, you'll sort it out. Good intentions and abuse are important here. Now, why am I saying all this? In every legislation you bring, the staff regime, which you have been authorized to replace with a decree of the law, has eaten the head of the Plan and Budget Commission. You've brought it, you've arranged it, there's a malfunction in these arrangements, there's a violation of the law. We said, "You're still doing the same thing." But what does the AKP government care about in these arrangements? What he cares about is that he's trying to get a body-speaking bureaucrat on the job. Now, we say these things, but in the personnel regime, since the AKP came to power, while complaining about instability, inefficiency in the public administration and staff regime, poor quality, bureaucratic oligarchy, on the other hand, by taking advantage of these irregularities, the co-friend has been torn apart, trying to fix problems. Bureaucratic oligarshi rhetoric and public administration and bureaucracy have been upset by the AKP. Instead of merit, as I've just said, a bureaucrat who understands body language has been chosen, many institutions have been changed by organization laws, laws, employees have been removed from office and replaced. The employees, indeed, are relieved of their duties by law. Now, the Minister is here. What's a lot of stuff in your ministry? There's a counselor, but Mr. Secretary, that's the general opinion of the government. The people there want to work, but you can't put it back. In other ministries, the ministers will have to put what they want. You take it away when the state has grown, it's remarkable, it's spent years there, it's a full contribution to the government. Now, if that's the case, is it possible to say that this coming bill is correct? I'm sure that 90 percent of the MPs -- including the ruling party -- are unable to count 50 percent, if you say what's in this bill. Is it possible to say that's a good law? I'll continue with further conversations. I pay my respects to the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0144par0028	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Vahab chooses to speak on behalf of the department, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0145par0031	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. We are approaching the end of Law Proposal 478 rows. As my predecessor friend said, many of my fellow lawmakers don't really know what's in this offer. Surely this lawmaking technique has not seen the persecution of the AKP since the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the Grand Assembly, became Parliament since 1920. So one of the examples is this bag, this sack, this sack, or -- they say, in our Adana region, it takes a few hundred kilos of cotton, and it's even bigger -- in our proposal, as it is in the descriptions there, it has also passed the ban on putting some items in it. Now, my dear friends, of course, there are some arrangements here that must be rushed, and there are no hasty arrangements. There are arrangements where we make certain social classes, certain segments happy. 4/B contractors, we've made almost 100,000 people happy, and God bless you. There are people we're unhappy with, and there are more than 22,000 people who are from 4/C, or there are people who work at different status. They're looking forward to making certain arrangements for themselves, but they're not seen in this bag of legislation. There's no regulation on the subcontractors' system. There is no arrangement for agricultural workers. Of course, they're the social classes that are unhappy. Besides, there are significant changes to agriculture, particularly the subject of the residency commission I work for. The destruction of the mera fields, the biggest problem of the livestock industry, the destruction of pedestrians, barracks, is a very important issue. Look, there's an arrangement going on here, and it's being developed. The bans on support payments stemming from corruption in support are being lifted here. These were the issues that really needed to be considered, to be discussed, especially in the fellowship commissions, where people who understood the work had to be discussed, but they came up with a jet speed in the Plan and Budget Commission. Yesterday, a sad event occurred. A police officer committed suicide. Of course, he didn't commit suicide because of his special circumstances. Before he dies, he leaves a note through Facebook, talks about the difficulty of working conditions, talking about pressure. I've died on this road, I've been depressed, I've committed suicide, but hopefully, my colleagues will continue to fight for their rights, for their democratic rights, and they'll get them as soon as possible. We can't see any arrangement for these people, for our security forces. However, by these sections, these are the arrangements that are expected, the arrangements that must be made quickly. There's a problem with unsubstantiated teachers. Really, wherever you go, sit in a restaurant, eat food, go to a hotel, don't be surprised by the maid there, the waitress there, the teacher there. In different fields, he rots elbows, he gets education, he graduates, and after he graduates, these teachers can't do their jobs, and Mr. Prime Minister, who runs that country, declares that he doesn't have to find jobs for these people. Now, the problems of our teachers living in a country like this need to be resolved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but we can't see them in these regulations either. Indeed, we have essential elements, elements of democracy. There are no regulations for those who enter the elections independently, who participate in these elections without having the power of any political institution behind them, who face more people than us, who deal with their troubles, their funerals, their happy days, their problems, their health problems, their many problems. In hunger, misery, more than 50,000 of our chiefs are waiting for an arrangement on their rights, on their conditions, on working conditions, but in vain, there's no way to see it here. No handicapped, no veterans, no family of martyrs, no consequences, no. Turkey wants further democracy, our freedom zones want to expand, more advanced, run in modern law norms, let go of its democracy, let alone the level of Western democracies, above which a Parliament is waiting for many legal regulations to strengthen democracy in this ancient land. Look, recently, the Constitutional Court, you know some of the clauses that we've made here about the CMC, has cancelled, and one of them has been a long time incarceration. These need to be discussed in Parliament, private-level courts need to be discussed, there needs to be arrangements leading to freedom of thought, freedom of opinion, there needs to be amendments to the Law on Meeting and Demonstrations, the election dam needs to be debated, the Political Party's Law, the Election Law has to be debated, but here it is, Parliament is finishing the Second Legislature year, but it has not made legal arrangements to respond to the expectations of the community. My dear friends, as the demonstrations continued in Istanbul yesterday, you know, the four human animals were chasing the performers there, as they were chasing the sheep who ran away on the sacrificial feast, no matter what you call them. I've seen this footage. You've just reacted to Mr. Horseman speaking to you. I think those reactions were unfair. There, again, please watch... as much as all of us, I, as you, as I love this country. We don't want this country to be dragged into a real conflict, to have its democracy damaged, we don't want any zinhar, but please, watch those images again, in the name of humanity, in the name of democracy, follow them in the name of human rights, in the name of the future of this country, in the name of peace. There, watch over and over again as our police friends tolerate the animals in that human figure with their hands crossed. These friends of ours are being sent to court for arrest, and I said today -- our friends, I am correcting him -- those creatures have been released. Now, this is depressing me in the name of democracy, in the name of equality, in the name of freedom, in the name of human rights. My dear friends, can't we talk about this here? Shouldn't we bring this up here? Look, those four siluettes also made the Great National Assembly of Turkey nervous yesterday. There's been some unwanted incidents here, and my free friend just mentioned it. Mr. Mehmet Emin Dindar, what we don't want... we absolutely refuse, we can yell at each other here, we can call each other, we can criticize each other, but remember, we don't have the chance to turn back the arrow that's aimed at the target, the bullet that's fired at the target, the word that comes out of our mouth. Do we look good in each other's words here? We're all leaders of this community, pioneers. Whatever we do here will be reflected in society. The way we treat each other, society will follow our example. I hope, no one of us will ever have the same scenes again in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the antidemocratic practices in Turkey, the political, economics established by the government in Turkey, we will have to discuss the mistakes freely here on the assembly stand, no matter what. This will be for us, for our future, for our future generations to live in a more modern, prosperous, brighter Turkey. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0146par0046	Thank you. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP who has asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0147par0049	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, I'd like to pick up where I just left off. I'll speak softly this time. I hope you're not going to use words to ruin my life. Turkey's area is a region today called the ozone hole in the global system. This region is about to be integrated into the global system. As you think, the events that began in Tunisia and continued with Syria, and then the steps that we can call a comeback in Mürsiya, should not be considered isolated from Turkey. Look, I'm telling you very clearly, the design on the region is actually the design of Islam. It is the design of Islam. It is the design of Islam, the system of making Islam fit for the needs of the global system. Loud and clear. The cause of terrorism is not the Muslims; it is the religion of Islam that Bernard Lewis refers to. Islamic religion is a structured religion in accordance with terrorism. It has been put into action by projecting efforts to dehumanize Islam from being a structurally compatible religion to becoming a religion in harmony with democracy, modernism and liberalism.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0148par0053	Teacher, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0147par0054	The United States should be in front of the United States if it is not involved in the activities in the region, if it is not in the activities in the region, and if it is not behind it, it says. There's a very clear perception today, which is that there's order, peace, progress and development in the global system-related land, and chaos, chaos and anarchy in areas that don't depend on the global system, so the way to transfer the area to the global system is closely related to the belief system in the region. The global system is very relevant to the Islam system that starts in Europe, starting in some way in the U.S. There were two models to produce such an Islam. And they said, "Radical Islam," and they said, "No, let's start the conflict between civilizations as such." They said, "It's a civil conflict because they think it's expensive." The internal conflict is a project to weaken Islam by using Islam against Islam. I warn everyone of this: whether the incident in the region is in Egypt or in the geography in which we live, whether it is in Syria, Sunni Islam is the case that Islam is being used against Shiite Islam, and that there should be no instruments for any individual with a sense, faith and understanding. Clearly, they have achieved that in a large way today. In particular, Ahmadinejad and a Iran that he organized, followed by Maliki Iraq, and Assad Syria, and Hezbollah are all there. Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Qatar are opposite him, and they are a separate block. Now, if we see this incident from this direction, and we don't go over this incident in the macro plan, and we don't strategize on this, in very clear terms, the future is catastrophic. So you blow up the mosque by saying, "Allah Akbar." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...We slaughter Muslim Muslims and watch them from afar, and we are surprised to see them, because the people who brought Mursi (Muslims) have taken Mursi (Muslims), not Mursi (Muslims), but the only reason why I say it is Islam (Islamics), and the only way to eliminate this fight is because we see this game. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0149par0062	Thank you. Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP, who has asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0150par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the Official Law Proposal for the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws of 478 rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. I, especially here, in our own province yesterday, would like to transfer an incident that took place in Taşlıçay district of Ağrı Province to the Supreme Assembly. Yesterday there was a festival in Taşlıçay district of Ağrı district because there was a groundbreaking ceremony at the Taşlıçay Nurali Turan School of Justice in the University of Chechn. Of course, we did not have the opportunity to participate because of these efforts in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I thank Mr. Prime Minister for his contributions, again, to our dear businessman Mr. Ibrahim Chechen, and again, our valued businessman, and Mr. Nurali Turan. Again, I would like to see Cenab-sama bring such beautiful investments to our beautiful town. On this occasion, the issue of the establishment of the staff regime, although many governments have been in the programme for years, I would like to inform the Supreme Assembly of what we have brought to the regime of these personnel, which has so far brought no regulation but the EC PARTI government. As soon as the EC PARTI governments came into office after 2002, one of the institutions he took into the civilisation programme was the Secretary General of the National Security Council. Thus, the status of the people of the former military background here with titles... has been assigned to a civilian bureaucrat during the time of our AK PARTY government. Again, again, in different institutions, with the removal of the injustice between public staff fees that operate in the same titles, the salaries of staff in all public institutions and corporations, you know, with a decree issued in 2012, with a KHK. Again, public employees have been given the right to a collective contract. Public employees have been given a degree in our administration. Again, there's been a disciplinary pardon in our time. Again, in the same way, the transfer of 200,000 contractors to the staff of a clause we agreed to yesterday was carried out during our administration. In particular, 4/C... jobs have been terminated due to privatisation, and public workers have been employed at public status 4/C. In the past 11 years, our public employees have never been crushed by inflation in any way. In the history of the Republic -- especially this is very important -- see -- there was a law passed on the agency as of last year under the rule of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and they were given certain rights of identity. Here, of course, they have also been promoted to retirement, provided that our brothers and sisters who work extra are encouraged by close to 50 per cent. Again, the employment of qualified staff has been expanded in the public sector. For the first time in Turkey, look, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has done it during our time in power. In particular, I want to draw your attention to the changes in the social structure of the state here. I'm an Eastern MP, believe me, before the AK PARTY governments, many of our mothers who worked in the east, who contributed to employment in the east, didn't see the face of the money or didn't know the money. Especially during our administrations, the money that was given to our students here, of course, because it was deposited directly into the mothers' account, it's a phenomenon that makes it a social revolution, and I want to make it especially clear to you. Again, employing career professionals in public institutions improves human quality in institutions. It is not only enough to be assigned as career professionals, it is not only enough to have a KPSS rating, but it is also made in public institutions' exams, as a result of interviews, after passing these friends through a second filter. The staff that has started as assistants is highly important for growing like three years in the field of duty of the institution during which it should be considered important, learning institutional tradition from its masters in terms of the master's expert-attribution relationship. In order to qualify for expertise in many institutions, candidates must also prepare and prepare a thesis in accordance with scientific principles. And then there's a candidate under corporate regulations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since my speech is over, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit07spe0151par0077	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on Article 73 (a) subdivision (1) on Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu and his friends was not enough to vote on the motion. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the motion is not accepted. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of some Law and Code of Laws under which there is a subsidiary and a subsidiary proposal for the amendment of the following Article (1). Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends "1) The President's General Secretariat, the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey" was changed in the First Amendment to Article No. 375 of the Constitution and "General Secretary-General of the Presidential Assembly of Turkey and the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0152par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0151par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0153par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0151par0015	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0154par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on Article 73 of Law Proposal 478. I salute the High Council. Of course, with this clause, the members of the presidential secretary general's office are also included. So Code 375 is now being re-organized. I'm afraid there's been a mistrial in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, lawmakers. In the past, especially in the past, we, as opposition, have met the Laws in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and then they were removed. When we said that, unfortunately, they were not accepted. Many of the laws issued afterwards are various times, so, the bag is being tried to be replaced by laws or other laws brought into the context of other laws, and that's what's being done now. So the public staff regime is being brought in by changing every day. However, we know that there are some very valuable specialists in the State Chief of Staff. So it's probably true that all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them working in public, were brought together in a real arrangement, not in the shape of a particular bag, but in a real arrangement, and their problems were solved. Unfortunately, however, the Justice and Development Party's power, although alone in power, is trying to resolve all the problems within resolving measures, and then reshuffles. See, in public, a healthy and consistent personnel regime has not been implemented until now, unfortunately. The personnel regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, including exceptions. During the EC PARTY, these exceptional practices were, unfortunately, in the way of employment. Honourable MPs, this is very important: look, our children work for months, days, they go to courses, they finish school, and they're going to work, we're going to be officers. They're going to continue to work in the form of a desire, and families are going to work in the same way, but what do we do? 4/B and 4/C, not 4/C, but 4/B. And then soon -- there's already an election every two years -- before the election, we're putting them on staff, which is a choice. Of course, isn't there injustice here now? There's a huge injustice going on here. I mean, even though the rights of the working children are so high, unfortunately they're put aside, and they're taken into the 4/B scope, and then they're put into the single cast. But right now, there are people in our country who are in a lot of trouble in this direction. Although, I'm not saying anything to the 4/B guys. Now, as of this moment, the 4/B people have been given a position within the law. It's the right law, it may have to be passed, but right now, we have unassigned teachers, and we have a lot of people who have finished school again. I wonder what these kids are doing. Some of these kids are going to be waiters, some of them are going to try to do other things, and a lot of them are in a state of mental crisis. Of course, that's all there is to it? No, it's not. So we now have people within the scope of 4/C. People within 4/C are also waiting for a position, or, in other business, contract workers are trying to get in. Look, right now, while the bag is being discussed, we're all getting calls from all the MPs, all the time: how do we get inside this law? How can you take us? Has the motion been made? They are spoken of. Yesterday, again, at the door, the deputy imams arrived, all waiting there. So, in the end, it's a fact that there's a great injustice going on here. Look, we've given you jobs, you've worked for 11 months. Respected lawmakers, aren't these people already staffed by TECEL workers back in the day? They've been put aside within the scope of privatisation, and they're trying to move on with salaries far below their salary, and a large part of them are waiting for retirement. Then there's a mistake here, but unfortunately, that mistake is still being tried by dressing measures. Just them? No, it's not. Right now, in our country, many people have very serious psychological problems. Look, in the last ten years, a town of 25,000 people has committed suicide and disappeared. I mean, right now, honorable lawmakers, 25,000 people have committed suicide, you know? There are police officers in this, there are soldiers in it, there are young people in it who are unemployed, in which there are people who have studied and struggled for years to get their bread, but who can't find their bread, and who are between 15 and 34 years old. I mean, if there's injustice and injustice, then there's bound to be correction, but we see that it's not correction, it's still being avoided by dressing measures. I await the acceptance of our motion, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0155par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 73 (a) has two motions in subarm number two: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Mehmet Günal Alim Iküş Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Enver Erdem "2) The Chief Secretary of State and General Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Secretary of the Constitution) and the First Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly (Secretary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Secretary of the Turkish Parliament) (Secretary of the Turkish Parliament) (Secretary of the Grand National Assembly) (Secretary of the National Assembly) (Secure of Turkey) and the second one (Seconds) have been changed according to the same bench, as its "The President's General Secretary-General's Secretariat" (Secure of the Constitution) and the second one (I). "c) General Secretary-General of the Turkish Accreditation Agency, National Bor Research Institute Chairman, Development and Support Administration for Small and Medium Business Development, Turkish Institute of Standards Chairman, Development agencies and Profital Development Agency for the first time or again in their positions, general secretary-General, assistant chief and assistant general secretary-in-chief staff, and any salary, salary, additional salary, bonus, compensation, compensation, bonus, bonus, and any other assistance to the general assistant secretary-in-chief, and the general assistant-in-chief of the general staff under the same name, and the general assistant-in-chief of the general managers, and the general deputy secretary-in-chief of the general staff for the general staff, and the general secretary-priority of the general staff, and the general secretary-priority of the general staff, for the general staff, and the general assistant-priority, for the general manager of the general staff, and the general manager of the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff of the general staff, for the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff of staff. ) (b) (b) (b) and (c) other payments, as well as all other payments made under social rights and benefits, a monthly net of all payments made under social rights and benefits, the recommendation of the relevant institution, the opinion of the State Chief of Staff, the opinion of the State Staff, the opinion of the State Staff, and the example of the Ministry of Finance on the proposal, shall be determined by the Council of Ministers, on the basis of additional compensation, on the extenuation of the state staff, and on the basis of the rights and benefits. In determining the equal officer titles to be taken, the same or similar tasks in classrooms where they can enter the same or similar positions, as well as positions of staff or position, according to the Law 657, are considered to be the same or the same staff, title or degree. ) For the first time or for the first time in office and positions of the National Security Council, the provisions of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out under Article 152 of Law 657 concerning the increase and compensation of the reassigned personnel. The violations of this clause of other legislation do not apply." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of Article 73/a-2 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill, Building, Development and Tourism Commission and Development Commission, under the Law of Law and State Officers, under the Law and Law. Kazim Kurt Özgür Special Mustafa Moroglu Sinan Aydın Aygün Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Öğüt Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0156par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0155par0051	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0157par0052	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0155par0053	Speaking on the motion, Turgut Dibek is a Cyclarian MP.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0158par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, this is the number of Article 73 (a) bendiin (2). I've made a commitment to our motion on the lu subdivision. I salute you. Dear friends, we've just had a chance to watch the news together during lunch. I assume you've seen that footage. It's been discussed, but I'd like to look into it. It's like, last night, we were in the whole of Turkey -- we were in the parliament -- and there's these images here that actually drive us into an influx, and they're kind of like, what's going on here that's causing us a real problem, you know, a machete or something like that, the lines, whatever -- because there's actually cops out there, we see the cops in the images, they don't intervene, they're waiting, they're calm, they're saying, "What's going on?" So, actually, I'd like to explore this point of Turkey with you in the meantime. And I think the concept of justice should be put on the table here. Dear friends, justice stands as a concept that has become the name of your ruling party, which is coming today in Turkey. I mean, there's no need to explain here how important justice is to the state, to the whole country, to everyone, and how important it is to people, if it's as important as air, water, food, the order of states, peace of society, and peace of society, but let's see what it's become. Now, these people were released by the court, so they were released for trial without arrest. I don't know the reason, so I looked, we haven't seen a reason yet, there's got to be a reason for the court, but we all watched the footage together. Look, our friends who are lawyers know. In fact, it's spoken in Turkey right now that it's created an infinitive, created fear, created excitement in society. Some people have seen those images with their eyes closed. And one of them is a woman... who, from time to time, gave images of the Prime Minister's thoughts about women, about these demonstrations, today, again, in connection with the synasion abroad -- listening to his explanations -- but we also saw the kick of the person with the machete on her back. Look, I've seen the statement on social media from some friends of your party group -- he's also a lawyer -- that these people are being released in the face of justice today, and he says that the results are a desperate decision that hasn't been thought about enough for law and society. Why were they evacuated, why weren't they arrested, why were they released? This is what I think Turkey has come to today, dear friends. College students are arresting any minister, Prime Minister -- to protest, you know, they're opening banners, same judges. College students want free education, they're arrested as members of a terrorist organization, and they're in prison. The same judges arrested a number of people who supported these actions -- police have taken custody, Ankara has one, Istanbul has one. Look, the Constitution has a Article 34, which we all know -- that is, it organises the part about meetings and demonstration walks. What's he saying? Here everyone has the right to an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration without prior permission. The citizens rely on this clause, they say: "It's our constitutional right." They say -- people, students -- they have no support, they have no lines, sir, they have no machete, they have a group that deals against the police, they have a group, they throw stones, they have a separate issue -- but they're under arrest. There was a search of those people's homes -- it was reflected in the press -- some books were collected, dear friends. Assoc. Prof. Funda Hanım, who is an assistant professor at Ankara University Faculty of Communication, has been collected as a criminal element and arrested. Look, the same judges may have been able to defend the officer who shot Ethem Sarısuluk without arrest. He evacuated the same judges, four of them, who had a machete or something like that. As far as justice goes, if we start with the Lord Omar, dear friends, what are the words? So you go in, you look at it, but I think it's something that we all need to think about when justice comes in, where your party is called in the name of your party, where your party, or your party, is a privilege for people who support the idea of your party, to stand in Turkey and feel that way. We're the legislature, where, last night, lawmakers almost attacked each other because of that incident. Turkey also had this infinitive. Dear friends, why do judges make these decisions, why do they make them, there's no time to dig into them, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the judge who made this decision is either thinking in militant terms or he's scared. Dear friends, the law doesn't require evacuating those people in any way. Those people had to be arrested. Let's all think about why we've come to this. We've made a lot of laws here.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0159par0068	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0158par0069	I'm ending it, Mr. President. In fact, there should be a message from within these laws, including you, including us, including the Speaker of Parliament, and judges should apply these laws. Why isn't it applied, let's think about what's wrong, what's wrong, and what's wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0160par0073	Should we interfere with the judiciary?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0161par0074	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "2) The Chief Secretary of State and General Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Secretary of the Constitution) and the First Secretary-General of the Grand National Assembly (Secretary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Secretary of the Turkish Parliament) (Secretary of the Turkish Parliament) (Secretary of the Grand National Assembly) (Secretary of the National Assembly) (Secure of Turkey) and the second one (Seconds) have been changed according to the same bench, as its "The President's General Secretary-General's Secretariat" (Secure of the Constitution) and the second one (I). "c) General Secretary-General of the Turkish Accreditation Agency, National Bor Research Institute Chairman, Development and Support Administration for Small and Medium Business Development, Turkish Institute of Standards Chairman, Development agencies and Profital Development Agency for the first time or again in their positions, general secretary-General, assistant chief and assistant general secretary-in-chief staff, and any salary, salary, additional salary, bonus, compensation, compensation, bonus, bonus, and any other assistance to the general assistant secretary-in-chief, and the general assistant-in-chief of the general staff under the same name, and the general assistant-in-chief of the general managers, and the general deputy secretary-in-chief of the general staff for the general staff, and the general secretary-priority of the general staff, and the general secretary-priority of the general staff, for the general staff, and the general assistant-priority, for the general manager of the general staff, and the general manager of the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff of the general staff, for the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff of the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff, and the general staff, and the general staff, for the general staff of staff. ) (b) (b) (b) and (c) other payments, as well as all other payments made under social rights and benefits, a monthly net of all payments made under social rights and benefits, the recommendation of the relevant institution, the opinion of the State Chief of Staff, the opinion of the State Staff, the opinion of the State Staff, and the example of the Ministry of Finance on the proposal, shall be determined by the Council of Ministers, on the basis of additional compensation, on the extenuation of the state staff, and on the basis of the rights and benefits. In determining the equal officer titles to be taken, the same or similar tasks in classrooms where they can enter the same or similar positions, as well as positions of staff or position, according to the Law 657, are considered to be the same or the same staff, title or degree. D) For the first time as Secretary General of the National Security Board, or as regards the increase and compensation of the reassigned personnel, under Article 152 of the Law on 657, the provisions of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out. Other regulations do not apply in violation of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0162par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0161par0086	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0163par0087	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0161par0088	Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0164par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 73 (a) subdivision (2) of the proposed law proposal. I hereby salute the grand jury. We demand your support for the acceptance of our motion. One particular thing I want to express is that this part of the proposal is about fixing the defective jobs that the AKP has done or caused. Part of this part of the proposal is things that come back from the Constitutional Court, part by breaking the law, part by part by part by part by side. The incident we're talking about is the Turkish Accreditation Foundation, the National Bor Research Institute, COSGEB, the Institute of Turkish Standards, the President's office, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the National Security Council. You're even mismanaging these three institutions. Development agencies are also interested in the staff and positions of the Occupational Qualification Agency. You want the opinion of the State Chief of Staff, but you don't want the positive opinion of this institution when the State Chief of Staff is a serious institution that is co-ordinating it. Well, then, you don't have to get an opinion. What's the point? There's no need for such an institution, no need for such an institution. Why do you want to avoid the positive opinion of the State Chief of Staff? As a result, it's up to a ministry, and when that ministry is able to coordinate, what does the concerned minister have to do with it? He's got to. If you're not going to take into account that institution, an expert on it, an institution that's actually doing a really good job, and legally involved in it, why are you writing here, what's the point of it, why are we doing this? Therefore, there is a great deal of difficulty in the work being done. A fellow officer, an officer who understands the language of the body.....so you'll have no more worries, no more worries. So 50 percent of the community supports us. You say, "If you don't handpick the officer, then 50 percent will come out elsewhere." Well, then, there won't be any fellow officers, no fellow officers, no one who understands your body language. What's it gonna be? It's gonna be a problem. Besides, you've got a lot of personnel-related convictions going on here. The Ministry of Customs and Commerce had 5,000 jobs, and it doesn't sound like that. A new bill for passing consumers has come in, and 500 people are wanted in the bill again. That ministry is hysterical, it's burning up like this, so that I can get a cast from somewhere, and I can get this done. There's no order, there's no order, there's no limits, there's no bounds, there's no right, there's no right, there's no law against the law, there's a law that's already passed these rights. There's no community, no integrity, no people. Well, then, this isn't exactly the proper place to go. Under every bill, or under every one of them, there will be something that you can say and put into the bill, which you call torba. What am I saying this for? When you can't see a integrity in the public, when you can't see a balance in the public structure, it's really, really, forward -- even in your administration -- it's inevitable that some of the problems will emerge horribly, rapidly. Therefore, in this motion, I would like to express to you once and for all that the arrangements are not about improving public administration and resolving employees' problems. Besides, about the staff... there's nothing for the poor here, nothing for the poor, nothing for the poor, nothing for the guru. Where are the higher officials, the provisions of him are being passed here? Other than that, you know, what's coming out of the bill about interest? The treacherous provisions of Muslims, which tied their profit share to interest, began to come with plans. I tried to express them. I salute the grand jury. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0165par0101	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0166par0102	The decision is sufficient, sir...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0165par0103	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 73 (a) bendi (3): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Emin Haluk Ayhan "3) Article 11 of Article 375 of the Constitution has been changed in the following way. "Subject 11-Earth Article 12 of Article 14/1/1/2012 of the First Amendment and Article 5 of Law No. 209 and Article 221 of Law No. 2258 and Article No. 221 of Law No. 666 under Article No. 666 and Article No. 2866 of the Law shall be paid in accordance with the provisions issued before the amendments (the Ministry of Health, Turkish Public Health Laboratory Laboratories and Turkish Public Hospitals of Turkey shall be paid in full due to an additional amount of compensation, as well as due to an additional payment of nine months, as well as due to an additional payment, under the provisions of Article No. 666 of Law. Those who have changed their position or staff titles optionally and those who are assigned to other institutions of their own will will stop paying the difference in compensation. In other laws and laws decrees, references to the multilateral additive 3, are considered to be referred to the supplemental Article 9." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of the 73/a-3 Article of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with a draft draft draft bill for amendments to the Law and Rules of State Act under the Law and by the Law. Kazim Kurt Levent Gök Mustafa Moroğlu Sinan Aydın Aygün Free Kadir Gökmen Tip Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0167par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0165par0128	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0168par0129	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0165par0130	Speaking on the motion, Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0169par0132	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are asking for a new arrangement in the Court of Law No. 666, which organises the fee regime. With this clause, you've corrupted the situation of the taxpayers before, and now you're trying to fix it again. Guys, this is the kind of law enforcement problem. If you put everything together, and you don't provide enough discussion, if you try to shut down the House, you'll always make law, you'll turn this House into a law factory, one day you'll try to fix it. You'd be wasting this country's time and money. Now, dear friends, not just this one, but first, you break the law with the laws you've made, and then you try to restore the order you've broken. You did the same thing in the C-section law, which came out of the abortion debates. Every law -- and there's this habit -- you put some stuff in there without noticing. I'm sure the AKP Group is also voting without realizing what most of these substances really mean. Look, you've put a clause in the C-section Act that you brought up with the abortion debates, and there's been an abortion and a raise to the Department of Health bureaucrats. This substance was a three-dimensional scandal at the time. One of them was contrary to the Constitution. Secondly, you've broken the state's fiscal regime, brought in the criteria that high-level bureaucrats can be contractual. It's the first thing that's happened in the government, and it's also a system that's disrupting the state hierarchy. At the same time, the third and most important part of the law was that it was morally scandalous. The Department of Health bureaucrats were raised 6,000 liras with this clause, not to other bureaucrats of the state, but only to the Ministry of Health bureaucrats. I don't know how many members of our AKP Group know about this, but this kind of lawlessness is the result of a political understanding that thinks it's never going to go away. One day, when the political power is over, I look forward to how these accounts can be delivered. I mean, it's kind of like a honey raise for bureaucrats, and these bureaucrats shared hospitals. On the one hand, the Ministry of Health is sending a general order to all governors: Doctors must reside within the borders of their workplaces; on the other hand, this law is called a paradoxic situation, and the Department of Health bureaucrats are shown as contract staff working in hospitals in a sense of a Ponzi scheme. If, in fact, this is an unwitting bureaucratic operation, I'm now warning you with good intentions. This problem needs to be resolved immediately. Dear friends, what did you do at the end of these unaccounted expenses? Finally, you went and put your hands in everyone's pockets. See, there are about 7-8 phases in which you get a contribution. I gave a question proposal, and the answer came to me, only the amount of contributions received by our citizens as they stepped into the hospital was $2 billion, 132 million a year. When you calculate the total contribution taken from the citizen, within a year, you raise the health expenditure from your pocket to $11 billion. So how much was this in 2002 when you took over health policies? It was $2.5 billion. On the one hand, we have closed the offices. You will boast, and you will make the state a major practice. I don't find any of this moral. See, the basic medical data for OECD (OECD) has been released in 2013. According to these basic data, unfortunately, Turkey is ranked last or second in all health indicators. We will continue to praise the successful aspects of health policy, but these are also important warnings for the health of the Turkish nation and for the sake of the health of the health of the health of the nation. We learned that in the government by living, by trying. We're telling you here, what we're asking you to do is to take these criticisms seriously without any complications. I give you all love and respect, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0170par0140	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "3) Article 11 of Article 375 of the Constitution has been changed in the following way. "Subject 11-Earth Article 12 of Article 14/1/1/2012 of the First Amendment and Article 5 of Law No. 209 and Article 221 of Law No. 2258 and Article No. 221 of Law No. 666 under Article No. 666 and Article No. 2866 of the Law shall be paid in accordance with the provisions issued before the amendments (the Ministry of Health, Turkish Public Health Laboratory Laboratories and Turkish Public Hospitals of Turkey shall be paid in full due to an additional amount of compensation, as well as due to an additional payment of nine months, as well as due to an additional payment, under the provisions of Article No. 666 of Law. Those who have changed their position or staff titles optionally and those who are assigned to other institutions of their own will will stop paying the difference in compensation. In other laws and laws decrees, references to the multilateral additive 3, are considered to be referred to the supplemental Article 9." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0171par0150	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0170par0151	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0172par0152	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0170par0153	Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0173par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 73 (a) subdivision (3) of the proposed law proposal. I hereby salute the grand jury. What we're talking about is we're changing statements with our motions to change this subdivision of matter. I'm sure 80 percent or more of the members of lawmakers here, as I said earlier, are aware of what is happening in these matters. The arrangements made for personnel in this proposal are, apart from the exceptions, to regulate the failures of the AKP (AKP)'s inept power, which their staff has prepared, and then their mistakes have arisen. In my speech earlier, I made it clear and clear that some are due to wrongs, some are due to lacks, some are due to the obligation to correct the wrongs you've done legally. Let's just say that the arrangement of a president with a different body language has interfered with you in the past. You've made a new arrangement, and now he doesn't have a President; your body language is similar, not exactly the same, but a president whose body language is quite similar, so he doesn't go back, and neither do the decrees, nor do the laws, but the higher judgment that you speak the same body language. I wonder if the language has changed there. Although you don't do the arrangement the way he says you do it, you make it different when you're sending it again. There's a malfunction here, there's an injury. On the other hand, you're putting the ministers in trouble. Mr. Secretary has a job, urban transformation, etc., serious business, and you're keeping Mr. Secretary of Health busy with the staff business here. And that's your law-making technique, your thinking, your shape, your trying to put everything into legal and corrective conditions outside of normal course, but it's not a proper job. I've been through the Supreme Court, and sometimes you do it, and you come back from what you do. It shows that you do things for the man, for the job, for the institution, for the business. Won't your wrongs get better? It will, but each of the wrongs that you've made are caused by corrections and deviations from the past practice, and the waste of time in the process of resolving this problem, the country's real problems. It was a code of law, and now you're trying to fix it with the law, not renovate it. There's no way that's going to work, so it's off the rails. Recently, I went to a symposium that was co-organised by the President of the United Nations and the Prime Minister's Board on the transparency of political financing. Mr. Bashir Atalay was a speaker there. He said: "We have done much about the transparency of political financing. One of them said the State Contraction Act. The State Contraction Act, once, was made before he came to power... and second, fear God, you've changed it 50 times. What'd you change it for? You have to tell the community about this. I mean, even the Deputy Prime Minister doesn't know what they're doing, when they're doing it, why they're doing it, whether they're doing it. So, what happens when you lose the edge of the rope? It's not possible. Look, the changes you've made today, the changes you've been trying to make, they'll probably come back to you tomorrow. I remember when I was working for the Plan and Budget Commission, one of our friends in the AKP signed a motion brought by the government. And then when his name was being read, the expression on it wasn't the one I signed. For God's sake, at least let us know that you've changed. I remember what you said today as if it were yesterday. Now, you have to be serious when you're organizing a business. Those in charge, those in charge, they're almost in place. I don't want to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm writing to do it right. I pay my respects to the High Council. Requesting support for our motion. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0174par0170	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0175par0172	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit08spe0174par0173	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0174par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 133th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 73 (a) subdivision (3) of Article 73 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0176par0005	Unacceptable substance, sir, not accepted. Unaccepted, denied substance.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0174par0006	Yes, it's not accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0176par0007	It was a vote on matter, Mr. President, the clause was denied.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0177par0008	Matter not accepted, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0178par0009	It doesn't reflect will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0179par0010	You didn't say "Madde" Mr. President, you said "proposal."
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0180par0011	You didn't say, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0181par0012	No, lawmakers, there's nothing to do, I voted, it's not accepted, so there's no need to comment.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0182par0014	Yes, the item was denied.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0183par0015	Mr. President, let's look at the records.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit09spe0181par0016	Then I'll ask for the transcripts. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0181par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 133th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. The examination of the transcripts shows that Article 73 (a) bendi (3) has been rejected. I'm reading the transcripts: there was not enough of a decision in the vote of Article 73 (a) subdivision (3). Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide... Oktay Vural (Izmir) was not accepted. Yes, the president is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0184par0010	It's over.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0185par0011	But that would be insecurity. Mr. Secretary, there's a lack of confidence in you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0181par0012	No, it's not insecurity, sir, it's a misunderstanding.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0185par0013	I mean, you're not supposed to sit there, so it's a majority will, a distrust of the government. So the MPs refused.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0181par0014	There are two motions on Article 73 (a) bendi (4): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The Court of Law and Law Orders for Amendments; the 773th Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act (a) of some Law and Law Act (i.e., I), and the Bayınıllik, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Enver Virtue Scholar Light Reşat Right Mehmet Günal Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu "4) The following joke has been added to the temporary 14th Article of the Law Rule 375. "Except for the last month's additional payment to the new staff of those assigned to other public institutions and organisations while serving in the office of the President's General Secretary-General, except for the last month's additional payment on their former staff, the monthly, additional indicator, bonus (the net amount of a month's hit), all kinds of hikes and compensations, the compensation of the office, the compensation for duty, the additional salary, the additional payment and the sum of their other financial rights (which is based on a fixed value), as well as on the new staffs they have been assigned, and the sum of any additional compensations, the amount of compensation, the amount of compensation, the amount of compensation, and the amount of compensation, and the amount of the sums they have been paid, and the same amount of all kinds, and the same amount of other benefits, and the same amount of the sums they have been paid, are kept, and the same amount of the same amount of the sums. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the 73/a-4 Articles of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with the Bill of the Law and Law. Kazim Kurt Sinan Aydın Aygün Hülya Trust Levent Sky Mighty Skymen Reminder Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0186par0032	We commend the last reading motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0181par0033	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0187par0034	We'll take it, sir, to the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0181par0035	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0188par0037	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, section 73 of bag number 478 is a broader clause than this offer, and this bag is a substance. So we need to make some very different comments here. For one thing, the 73/a-fourth bent is a decree in the presidential office, which, at the request of the presidency's General Secretary-General, will be issued to other institutions where the senior officials are taking their fees. But before we evaluate this, I think it's necessary to evaluate the Law of Authority 6223 and the Law of Law 375, which is the basis of the work, based on the Law of Authority. With a law of authority of four articles, a decree of 30-some-odd laws was issued, and these were arranged while the House was working. So, when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was in operation, instead of making law by lawmakers, it was our government's government that decided to make an arrangement in accordance with the law. Lawsuits against these provisions have also been cancelled from the Constitutional Court, and on this cancellation the equivalent fee will be paid for the same amount of work. Although you claim to have acted on logic, the pay system has become more complicated, and we are now trying to correct the times after that cancellation. Since neither the government nor the ruling party nor the bureaucracy took a step forward in this matter during the time after the Supreme Court's decision to abort, this turmoil, this disorder, the imbalance between the fees has continued, as our proposals on various issues have not been accepted. Now, perhaps some of this arrangement continues without real authority. That's why we're bagging it last night, inflating it in the last week of work. The current arrangement is perceived as being arranged based on the possibility of a change among the president's employees. So, the presidential secretary general's office is going to send some employees elsewhere, and let there be no loss of rights, no economic damage. The court must decide in favour of the plaintiffs in their administrative cases. There is an arrangement in its logic. It is not clear at this time how appropriate this is for the Constitution. I don't think that lawmakers really have time to study them, to study them in these negative working conditions. However, I think it would be helpful to take away these negatives, especially those negatives that bring out the smell of staffing. Because you're detecting that there's been a mistake with the staff regime, and you're not doing it on time, and now you're causing new injustices to arise. That's why we made this motion. If you support our motion and do the evaluation properly, perhaps some injustices will be removed, removed, I believe that. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0189par0044	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Since the motion has just been passed and the substance has been removed from the text, I will remove the other motion from the process. Now, there are two motions on Article 73 (a) me (5) subdivision: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The Court of Law and Law on Amendments; the Court of Law on Laws and State of Law (a) of the 73rd Amendment in the Law and Law Act (a) of Some Laws and Laws shall be proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports of the 73th Amendment (a). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu "5) Article 15 (b) of the Interim Article 15 (b) of Rule 375 has been changed in the following way. "b) The third joke of Article 5952, which was lifted from the scope of Article 31/12/2011 in the second article of Article 31/12/2011, and of Article 6 of Article 6114 in the eighth and third sentences of Article 6114, the provisions in the second and third sentences of Article 12 shall continue to be applied in accordance with the payments made in accordance with the terms referred to in accordance with the terms referred to as the second joke of Article 12 shall be carried out." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of the 73/a-5 Articles of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with a draft draft draft of the Law and Code of State Act on the amendment of Laws and Laws to the amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law. Kazim Kurt Levent Gök Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Almighty Gökmen Reminder Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0190par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0189par0066	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0191par0067	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0189par0068	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0192par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the law, I have been promised the 73/a-5 · Global Voices of Law Proposal No. 478. I salute you all. Again, in this department, we're making a new arrangement because of cancellations in decisions based on an actual law of authority and the result of its production. In fact, when making these provisions, the government said: "I am organizing the private regime, I am equal to equal work, and I am removing the imbalance among employees." Unfortunately, it has become very clear that this is not the case, and in the end, we need to complete these shortcomings. However, right now in Turkey, other arrangements are needed to correct the imbalance between employees to some extent. A total change in Law 657 must and must be carried out immediately. Otherwise, all of our rank and ranking officers are facing serious difficulties, serious economic problems and social problems, depending on that. Our friends just tried to tell us, you know, suicide officers, suicide security guards. Economic difficulties lie at the beginning of them, but there is nothing in either of these provisions in Article 73 of 50 or so, plus nothing for our officers who work at a low price. I mean, really narrow-income, state official figures say there's been no regulation to heal our officers who are being paid below the poverty line. What's causing it, what's causing it, it's really a question of curiosity, and of course it's a matter of political choice. Many of the senior officers have had enough moisture and enough economic difficulty to remove the burden, but at many points, what needs to be edited is unfortunately not being done again. For example, the economic situation of the vice mayors who work in our municipalities is troubling, and there is no additional payment, no compensation for them, but unfortunately he is not involved in this arrangement. When it's very clear that many of the university's heads of agencies have been wronged about this, the solution is not proposed. Again, many of our friends who work for the Turkish Grand National Assembly do not receive equal wages for equal jobs, university graduates suffer staff problems, and the employment security of the contract holders continues in a stressful manner. Again, there is no study of the staff and autonomy rights of our security forces, which we call the most important element in Turkey, 50 per cent of the wages they are currently receiving are not reflected in pensions, and they have suffered very serious problems after retirement, but the AKP governments have been refusing to take positive steps in this area for the past ten years. It is this Parliament's duty to correct this wrong, to correct this wrong. Why don't we do that too, why don't we just stay on top of it? I'd like to bring this matter back to the public and to your knowledge. Here, in this article, we're trying to improve the economic situation of employees at the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security and the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. Whereas we've already decided to start a company, and there's a private working system in that company. Now, why do you need this stuff, why is it put back in? I'm having a hard time understanding that, too, and I'm looking forward to supporting our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0193par0077	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0194par0079	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0193par0080	I'll call. Those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The Court of Law and Law on Amendments; the Court of Law on Laws and State of Law (a) of the 73rd Amendment in the Law and Law Act (a) of Some Laws and Laws shall be proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports of the 73th Amendment (a). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "5) Article 15 (b) of the Interim Article 15 (b) of Rule 375 has been changed in the following way. "b) The third joke of Article 5952, which was lifted from the scope of Article 31/12/2011 in the second article of Article 31/12/2011, and of Article 6 of Article 6114 in the eighth and third sentences of Article 6114, the provisions in the second and third sentences of Article 12 shall continue to be applied in accordance with the payments made in accordance with the terms referred to in accordance with the terms referred to as the second joke of Article 12 shall be carried out." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0195par0089	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0193par0090	Government?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0196par0091	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0197par0092	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0193par0093	I'm reading the reason: The motion is to correct the statement. The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who meet the requirements of 4/B, under Law 4924, contractors under other special laws, and contractors working in local administrations, and those who meet the conditions of acting Koran instructors. However, there are no 4/Cs amongst those who have been given an officer's staff who are most deeply victimized. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. The citizen's right to block the freedom of right to search for rights and to intervene in the judiciary has the right to information on questions and answers related to the PSYM exams. The public interest in its capital is directly or indirectly excluded from the Court's control of companies, which are less than 50%. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 15 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 73 (b) there are three motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act No. 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose the amendment of Article 73 (b) of the Charter of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Ali İkım Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu "b" has been changed in the following way, along with the title 31 of Article 31 of the Court of Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, dated 3/6/2011 and 633. MADDE 31- (1) employs Family and Social Policy Experts and Expert Assistants in relevant service units of the ministry's central service. (2) The following conditions are sought in addition to the 48th Article of State Officers Act 657 to be appointed as assistant supervisor: A) Graduating from higher education institutions that provide at least four years of undergraduate education, political information, economics, business, economics and administrative sciences and service units, or higher education institutions in the field of service, or higher education institutions adopted by the institute of higher education, which are adopted by the institute of higher education or abroad. B) Success in the competition exam. (3) Those assigned to the Vice-Constructor's Office have the right to take the competency exam, provided the thesis jury accepts the thesis, which they will prepare for at least three years of actual work and which will be determined by the unit they are employed for. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis will be given an additional period of six months before they submit their thesis or prepare a new thesis. The ability of those who have succeeded in the qualifying exam to be appointed to the Family and Social Policy supervisor's staff depends on the fact that they will have it within the last two years of an internationally valid certificate, which is considered equal to that at the level (C) of the Foreign Language Information Level (C) or language competence. Those who fail the test or fail the test without a valid excuse will be given a second test in one year. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis for the second time, those who fail or fail the second exam or fail the right to a test, and those who fail to meet the requirement for foreign language competence during their time, lose the title of Assistant Inspector and are appointed to officers in accordance with their position at the Ministry. (4) Articles on the training, upbringing, competition exam, pre-preparation and competency exams are organised by regulations." To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. It is the 31st Amendment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 633 to be replaced by Article B. We offer and propose that the clause B should be changed in the following way. "b) to succeed in the competition exam, which will be recorded on camera." Pervin Buldan Secret by Sakık Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ibrahim Binder Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of Article 73/b of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with a draft draft draft draft of the Law and Laws Act. Kazim Kurt Levent Sky Free Special Mustafa Moroglu Sedef Little Hülya Güven Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0198par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0193par0142	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0199par0143	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0193par0144	Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0146	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to point out that during an hour ago, we all watched Mr. Prime Minister's speech at the subway opening. Now, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, the Prime Minister of Turkey is there, getting on the official plane of the Republic of Turkey, and getting there by means of a tax-taxed -- of course -- to use it. The subway opening is a public business, and the public is invited there. He's got a microphone in his hand, and Mr. Prime Minister's mouthing off to opposition parties, especially the Republican People's Party, for a long time. Now, we're having a discussion here, and we need to understand each other better, and so on and so forth, but once you look at it in style, there's no further side, but I'm not discussing it. If all citizens are invited to a subway opening, does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey feel that there is no one there who has voted or volunteered for a political party? If that's what he thinks, then the Prime Minister is going to argue his legitimacy over that square.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0201par0148	What kind of logic is that?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0149	Otherwise, I'm sure that if the Republic of Turkey opened a dam, opened a subway, opened a university, opened an elementary school, opened a mosque, opened a Koran course, there would be all kinds of opinions within the citizens who go there. Oh, it's understandable that the Prime Minister's political party is more likely to be in that square, but imagine that you are a statesman there, or at least you are the host, for other parties like this, to speak so cruelly, from the past to the present.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0201par0150	He's responding.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0151	If he's gonna answer, that's not the place. He can come and use this bench if he wants to. He already makes these statements every day, but if he has to talk so politically, then...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0202par0152	He's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0153	He won't ask me, he'll ask his conscience, the Prime Minister will ask his conscience. I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0203par0155	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0156	I go to meetings with the money of the Republic of Turkey, with the taxes of citizens, with the cars, with the means. I need to be a little more hugger here. She'll say. Ha, when you're on AKP's election bus, it's as good as your mother's white milk, she can say as she pleases.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0204par0157	He's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0158	He won't ask me, he'll ask his conscience.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0204par0159	You do your speech.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0160	I'm giving my speech. This is the seat of the House of the Republic of Turkey, and what I'm doing here is much more democratic than what the Prime Minister did there today. I don't think about it at all, but I see it as a democratic debate here. I'm really uncomfortable with your tone, you're not in the right approach. I'm saying, very clearly, that the man of state should be inclusive. If he's opening a subway there, tomorrow, just as all citizens of the Republic of Turkey are going to use that subway, and today I'm telling you, if it's a public invitation to that opening, if it's a sincere invitation, don't be so hurtful there anymore. And I'm not saying this by being angry, insulting, you know, stringing, doing this, doing this, I'm saying that I don't think it's right. When the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey changes tomorrow, I hope that he will be Kemal Kilicdaroglu -- I say I expect such an approach. Believe me, when Kemal Kilicdaroglu became Prime Minister, when I said that...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0205par0164	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0165	...this happiness at the victory party, this laughter, these joys will be reflected throughout society.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0206par0166	You made us laugh and God will make you laugh.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0200par0167	The face of the pensioner will smile, the face of the worker will smile, the face of the farmer, the face of the oppressed parts of society will smile like this, and we will see your laughter and your applause in the squares. We, in the Republic of Turkey, do not find it right that a statesman should be so hurtful in his approach to other parties during openings. Our law is broken, the Republican People's Party in that square has a conscience and a right to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, of course, goes out on the balcony, he's allowed to go off, but it's important not to talk on the balcony, but not to bow to the old one when he lands. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0207par0172	Thank you. The motion...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0208par0174	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0207par0175	I'm going to vote for you, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. It is the 31st Amendment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 633 to be replaced by Article B. We offer and propose that the clause B should be changed in the following way. "b) to succeed in the competition exam, which will be recorded on camera." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0209par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0207par0184	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0210par0185	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0207par0186	I'm reading the reason: In order to ensure that the public's examinations are carried out in accordance with the merits of the recruitment and the results of the results of the examination will be irregular and that the tests will be recorded by camera in order to strengthen and strengthen the trust of candidates in the results of the examination, in order to avoid the loss of rights of employees or participants who have no intention or neglect. For these reasons, the material text has been offered to be changed. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act No. 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose the amendment of Article 73 (b) of the Charter of the Plan and Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778) in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "b" has been changed in the following way, along with the title 31 of Article 31 of the Court of Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, dated 3/6/2011 and 633. MADDE 31- (1) employs Family and Social Policy Experts and Expert Assistants in relevant service units of the ministry's central service. (2) The following conditions are sought in addition to the 48th Article of State Officers Act 657 to be appointed as assistant supervisor: A) Graduating from higher education institutions that provide at least four years of undergraduate education, political information, economics, business, economics and administrative sciences and service units, or higher education institutions in the field of service, or higher education institutions adopted by the institute of higher education, which are adopted by the institute of higher education or abroad. B) Success in the competition exam. (3) Those assigned to the Vice-Constructor's Office have the right to take the competency exam, provided the thesis jury accepts the thesis, which they will prepare for at least three years of actual work and which will be determined by the unit they are employed for. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis will be given an additional period of six months before they submit their thesis or prepare a new thesis. The ability of those who have succeeded in the qualifying exam to be appointed to the Family and Social Policy supervisor's staff depends on the fact that they will have it within the last two years of an internationally valid certificate, which is considered equal to that at the level (C) of the Foreign Language Information Level (C) or language competence. Those who fail the test or fail the test without a valid excuse will be given a second test in one year. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis for the second time, those who fail or fail the second exam or fail the right to a test, and those who fail to meet the requirement for foreign language competence during their time, lose the title of Assistant Inspector and are appointed to officers in accordance with their position at the Ministry. (4) Articles on the training, upbringing, competition exam, pre-preparation and competency exams are organised by regulations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0211par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0207par0204	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0212par0205	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0213par0206	Mr. Ali Öz, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0207par0207	Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0214par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the motion we made in the joke of Law 478. I salute the High Council. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, of course, is a very important ministry for society. In Turkey, when we evaluate it in general, we're talking about a ministry about providing services that include a wide range of communities. In the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the definition of the inspector is changed as a supervisor, even though he performs the same task. Of course, the first thing we need to stress here is that the fact that you quickly made certain arrangements in the law enforcement order, such as smuggling goods from fires, and then the Constitutional Court declared that the laws would be made this way, although there was no fundamental mistake, is that you, the ruling party, have returned them to Parliament in response to the objections we have already made on this subject. It is true that we know. In fact, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is required to be audited both by a fair and decent staff within the institution and by qualified, trained inspectors and other non-institutional units. If this is not done, it will be inevitable that it becomes open to abuse. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy is a highly sensitive ministry. I don't mean to imply that you're not being sensitive here, but social benefits are essential to social welfare, but using these benefits politically, I think there's a lot of problems that we can't account for to everyone. Dear MPs, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, are primarily responsible for providing services in a wide range of society, such as disabled citizens, martyrs and veterans, seniors, nursing homes, child health and services, victims. When justice and justice are abandoned to arbitrary practices here, it is not possible to pay the plague. None of the projects should be politically ricocheted and discriminated. It must be the government's duty to remove whoever fell. Control of the activities of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in every area should be more sensitive than the control of other institutions. 76 million people here must be held equal and equal. Social benefits should not be considered a new income for another person. In practice, complaints about these issues should not be dismissed in advance, and the truth must be investigated. The services offered here should be in accordance with the principles of the social state. Of course, I'd like to say that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has recently been in need of making new arrangements, especially on disabled individuals with disability assistance. In this case, it's especially true to support them by disabled citizen families, but I respectfully salute the High Assembly, who believe that this has reached those who deserve it in a fair manner, that they should be audited, that those who have neglected control should be punished.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0215par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0216par0220	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-07sit10spe0215par0221	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... There's a disagreement among the clerks for the number of decisions that are sufficient. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
