tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, if you'll please be quiet, I'll call you to the stand now and we'll be able to hear our congressman better. The first non-responsive statement regarding World Food Day belongs to Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, a member of the Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, first of all, you and our nation are celebrating the past holiday, and I wish this week's work to be a blessing. Honourable lawmakers, I would like to share information with you today on a subject that we never remember in its abundance or in its abundance, but we don't know how it came from, but we don't know how it came from, in its famine and in its absence; this is food. Honourable MPs, one of the most important rights of human beings is the right to live, the right to feed and food for that. In today and in the old world, one of the human rights, one of the basic rights of life, and one of which is reliable food. So, what's the main reason for putting it out there? They have reason to believe that if individuals or some communities in a society are suffering from hunger and poverty, this place is a potential danger, and not just those who created it, but those communities are also responsible. So, what's the app like in the world when it's like that? Can our people and people in the world get enough food? How's his sustainability? In fact, contrary to these statements, today in the world, respected lawmakers, about 1 billion people, about 13 percent of the world's population are struggling with hunger and poverty. However, those who led the agricultural revolution in the 1960s set out in an effort to end the world's hunger and misery. But at the 1996 food summit in Rome, the reduction of the world's starving population was set as a goal. How's the painting we came from? The painting we came from is completely opposite of that. In fact, the number of people in hunger and misery has not diminished or even increased day by day. But there's something else we know in the world, friends, that at the same time, 1.5 billion tons of food per year are wasted in various stages. We know that the massive weight of this has been squandered in production, especially in poor countries, and in richer countries. This corresponds to about one third of the world's production. In particular, countries that try to have a say in the world and do everything for their own good are the most wasteful countries in the world. Friends, their waste rates are reaching about 60 percent, especially in the consumption stages. We're talking about 1.5 billion tons of food. But what the starving societies need is much, much lower. If you were to give half of this to the people of the world's starving countries, or if you could deliver it to them, or if you could create justice in the world that could provide this division, all the suffering of hunger in the world would be gone. Today in this world, although agriculture revolutions have been made in this era, although food production has increased by more than 150 percent from 1960 to today, an average of 25,000 people a day -- half of which are children under the age of five -- because of hunger and poverty, and in total, about 100 million people are suffering from hunger and poverty and poverty, another 10 million are dying of hunger and poverty. In fact, that was the purpose of those who came up with this theory, the agricultural revolution, and I think that's why they set out. Because they used to make industrial revolutions, they ruled the world in the form of industrialization for centuries, and then when they realized that many countries around the world had reached industry enough, it was actually a way of actually taking food in their hands and keeping the world, and we see that they succeeded. What are we supposed to do? I give you all the respect that we need to do as much as we can in our production activities in our own country as possible and maintain our position as a country on its feet, and that we need to contribute to the point of justice in sharing food in the world.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Sword. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Peace and Democracy Party Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, who wants to talk about problems in prisons with the conditions of the sick prisoners and prisoners. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the problems in the prisons and the condition of the sick prisoners. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, funerals are coming out of prisons, severe illness, and there are many patients waiting to die. From this platform, I and my friends have repeatedly expressed that we have called on the Ministry of Justice, despite all our calls, and although there has been serious public pressure on Turkey, there is still no concrete step. Patients and prisoners are kept in solitary confinement for months at Metris type R Prison, which has become a concentration camp, as if they were not evacuated. See, according to Justice Department data, 252 died in 2010, 268 in 2011, 260 in prison and 260 in 2012. So that means five people die every week in Turkey's prisons. According to the latest data prepared by the Human Rights Association, 526 prisoners and prisoners are under arrest, including 154 of whom are seriously ill, many of whom are unable to survive alone in prisons. One of these patients is Hasan Kozar, who is in critical condition. Ankilozan can't move because of spontaneousity, he can no longer walk, he can move his hands, he can communicate with more eyes, he can't even turn his neck. It's a case of extreme colds, fever, vomiting, fainting. Since he can't eat, he can only eat soup and fruit. Again, in Erzurum H Type H Prison, Burhan Kartal, Filit Tiltay, Fikret Güzlayyın and Erkan Akkuş are patients in Diyarbakır Prison who are in no condition to survive on their own. Unfortunately, the Coroner's Office rejects the request for evacuation in full political terms. See, the Forensics Association has been given enormous powers. At least Parliament and the government should be able to break the monopoly of this politicalised institution. Reports made by the health boards of full-fledged hospitals determined by the Justice Department are not approved by the Forensic Medical Association, they are rejected. In addition, the Forensic Medical Association calls the prisoner to İstanbul to confirm reports given by full-fledged hospitals, and the patients suffer a great deal because they carry people in the ring. Patients who can't survive here alone are far from being able to help each other. Coroner's Office, as you know, has almost never approved the reports. In particular, he lost all neutrality to the prisoners, based on the content of the criminal files. Therefore, it is imperative that the amendment of the law and the suspension of the prison sentence due to illness be removed from the monopoly of the Forensic Medical Association. In addition, the Forensic Medicine Association does not comply with the amendment made in Article 16 of the Penal Code 5275. The criteria for the change of the law and for the failure to maintain life on its own instead of the life-threatening criteria. At the same time, it has been difficult for the republic's prosecutors to be released despite the illness of prisoners who will be considered highly competent and dangerous for public safety. As a matter of fact, Ramazan Özalp, convicted in Metris Prison on the grounds of this verdict, cannot remain in the prison of the Forensic Medical Association. Although he has filed the report, he has not been released. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, once again, the most important step towards the conditions of the sick prisoners and prisoners is the breaking of the monopoly of the Forensic Medical Association. Even reports from the major science departments of universities have been rejected by the Forensic Medical Association. So what is the function of these major sciences? In addition, hospitals or institutions with adequate expertise are required to be opened in all prisons. Dear lawmakers, I've had to visit many prisons recently. I visited Rize, Silver House, Bayburt, Erzurum prisons. From what I've seen, prisoners' daily living conditions are even being interfered with there. For example, with the camera system brought in, the daily life of prisoners and prisoners is completely under control, and therefore people's privacy is violated. These problems need to be resolved immediately. I'd like to request your support so that it can be resolved, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Republican People's Party, Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate you all on your past holiday, and I salute you with love and respect. Last October 13th, we celebrated the 90th anniversary of Ankara's becoming the capital. Turkey is a republic founded on the fallen Ottoman Empire on October 29, 1923. Until then, the founders of the Republic had to fight the countries that occupied the Ottoman Empire for four years. This war was led by Ankara, and the republic was declared by Ankara. In the national struggle, Mustafa Kemal said to Ankara, who gave the largest support to his friends at the most difficult time, that he had a separate place in my heart of Ankara and Ankara's people. The position of Ankara is open for development, the headquarters of the national struggle was made by Ismet Inönü and his friends in Ankara on October 13, 1923. The identity of the city of Ankara is established by the passion for civilization, tolerance and republican tradition. Haci Bayram Veli had built his famous mosque in 1427, but he did not touch the monument of Augustus, the Roman Emperor next to him, but he took advantage of it and gave the best example of tolerance six hundred years ago. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers at this point today have strayed from Ankara's understanding of tolerance and are threatened by Ankara's historical identity, republican qualities, social, cultural and economic life, power and Metropolitan Municipality. All of Ankara's foreign counties are at the latest in terms of development between the public service buildings they lost one by one and the districts in Turkey. Feeding and farming have reached zero. All arrangements are tried to erase the name of Ataturk, and the traces of modern life. The Ataturk Forest Farm is being plundered every day, and the heritage of Ataturk is being violated. The Metropolitan Municipality, which has ruled Ankara for 20 years, is Turkey's most indebted municipality. In addition to public debts he has not paid, he has taken the sixth place on the list of tax-haters. Ankarans are condemned by this administration to use the most expensive water, the most expensive natural gas. D.C.G.G.G.G., which was privatized to transfer funds to subways, has been transferred to the Transport Ministry, but it's all sold out. Ankarans have been handed over to the arbitrary practices of a company in natural gas, the only option in fuel. In all our warnings against the privatisation of the capital gas, it turns out we were right. Ankarans suffer from natural gas. The interesting thing is that natural gas should be privatized. The Metropolitan Municipality was courted by the company that received natural gas shortly after privatisation. The Chanstones were dehydrated for three days on the holiday. While there is no plan yet finalised and the legal process continues, the destruction of trees in a forest in the middle of the night has shaken our Ankara and the law deeply. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Ankara's headquarters, the symbol of our people's war against imperialism and the eternal capital of our republic. Ankara is the capital of all values that hold us together. He says that he is determined to shield Ankara and Turkey from secular, contemporary, Ataturk's principles, against the bosoms of millions of patriots; and I salute all of you with love, with respect, and with respect to all of you, I remember Ataturk, Ismet Inönul, and his comrades.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. The first word belongs to Mr. Oz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 4th day of the Festival of Sacrifice, on 18 October, there was a tornado disaster in Bozyazýz, especially in Gürlevik neighbourhood. This tornado disaster has victimized 58 manufacturers, and has been identified as 6 trillion. As I first express my condolences to the people who live here, I especially ask the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to show adequate sensitivity to delay the loans of our farmers.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0007par0064	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. During the holiday season, the Metropolitan Municipality flooded the people in various districts of Ankara, particularly Çankaya. The AKP's Metropolitan Municipality left Ankara without water on the day of the festival as if it had kept the people of Ankara alive in Kerbala. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has found no other day to replace the pipes than the holidays. This is a typical example of AKP's idea of municipalism, which actually serves the so-called human being. On the other hand, in the holiday season, it is a complete scandal for AKP to cut down the trees in ODTÜ. I condemn this state-sponsored bandit act. The government doesn't do night raids; they don't do right at the wrong time. Once again, I condemn AKP's arrogant, tyrant, dominant and materialistic sense of municipalism on behalf of the nation.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0011par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, studies have been launched to build a new cement plant in the village of Akpınar in the District of Vize, Kırklareli Province, Turkey. About that, yesterday, I attended a meeting at the Ministry of Environment. For this important issue, I'd like to say here: Now, in our district of Pınarhisar, there is a cement factory at the entrance of our Visa district, a cement plant in the village of Cosmocik; the distance between is 25 kilometers. This factory is going to be set up five kilometers away, so it's going to be three factories 30 kilometers away; that's the first problem. The other problem is this factory's basin is a forest basin. They're going to extract raw materials in a 5,000-yard area, and it's all forest. Here's another thing: the area where this factory is going to be built is in the area above Ergene's birthing basin. Earlier, a cement factory was asked to be built just two miles away, and it was not allowed. I'd like to rephrase this sensitivity, get the attention of the concerned. 1/100 to plan the area. 000 and 1/25. The plans for the 000 would be recorded that the cement factory would not be built in this area. I'm drawing attention to the interests, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the late death of architect Oktay Ekinci. I'm congratulating all of Turkey's Chamber of Architects. I want to address health problems in Çanakkale. Although the AKP claims to have solved health problems with helicopters, I want to say that Çanakkale had no doctors in Bell, Yenice, Gallipoli, Ezine, Bajramic, Biga hospitals. I mean, it's been expected by our people to know when the appointment of attending physicians -- especially physicians -- will be made, and when the hospital will be working as a private hospital at its proper time, and when the health problems of our citizens in Çanakkale, who have been waiting there in line for days, will be resolved in the right place. Even though he's in the West, his health problems are still unresolved... The AKP government, who claims to have solved the health problem in Turkey, has failed to appoint a doctor even though it is so simple and especially mentions helicopters...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0014par0085	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0015par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the workers who worked at TEDAHŞ (TUNCELI) in a month ago decided to slow down work because their wages and working conditions were too bad, and there has been no electricity in the village of Tunceli (Tunceli) for more than a month or so. Many of our villages have dialysis patients; a large number of these people are in comas, hospitalized. Besides, it's a mountain range. In this mountain region, people put their winter needs, oil, dents, cheese, roasting, in coolers. All these people's food is wasted because the power's out. Now, the person who bought the distribution company here is a friend of Recep Erdogan. Unfortunately, he's giving the worker the benefit of the doubt, and we can't reach anyone. The citizen calls us every day, in the dark; there has to be a cure. Why isn't this distribution company giving the workers credit? So, really, people are calling us every day until evening, and we're in a very difficult situation. Who are we going to apply to? This distribution company is so much fun to act on... these people have the right to live...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, he has filed a report on the Iğdır community, as a member of the law, involving the Iğdır Mufti, who has abused his duty by dividing both the Kurdish people and the Azerbaijan factions, as well as as the terror elements, so to speak, has committed a crime. This report was sent by the Governor of Iğdır to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the Minister of State in charge of Religion in an additional article dated September 13th. Government officials are here. Will this process be done about the Mufti and the Governor? What will be done about public officials who are so irresponsible at such a delicate time that our country has passed through? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Although housing, nutrition and protection are the most basic rights to be human beings, and these rights have been guaranteed in many international contracts, while millions of people around the world are experiencing injustice in access to food, hundreds of thousands of people are facing the hunger limit of war at the depth of political, social trauma, he says. Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0020par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate our citizens of Jaferi and Alevi on the Day of Gadir-i Hum, and ask for the acceptance of their meetings in the sight of God. I'd like to express that without the approval and knowledge of the ODTÜ administration, a police-sponsored police presence is against democracy, rights, freedom, and the attitude of the Metropolitan Municipality and security forces in this regard. Without the knowledge of the ODTÜ administration and the plans that have been put on hold before they become certain, this course of action is completely contrary to democracy, human rights, freedom. The applications the students wanted to make to Ankara Governorate and security units regarding this illegal position of the municipality were not accepted by relevant units in a way that would not be in a state of law again. Not long ago, we had the Travel Square movement in Turkey. This movement, which began as an expression of environmental sensitivity, has become increasingly free-centered movement, shows that the government should have learned from AKP administrations, but unfortunately, this class has never been taken. As the Republican People's Party Group, I invite the AKP's leadership and its institutions to respect democracy, freedom. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0021par0112	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0022par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, strongly condemn this raid by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality at the festival from here to Middle East Technical University. I strongly condemn the concept of a police state over there that uses democratic rights to gas our students by helicopters night and day, which punishes the entire campus and even the neighborhoods there. I'm inviting our prosecutors on duty. Mr. President, Dursunbey Balıkesir is a town in the remotest part of the district. There are no doctors here in the health department hospital, and doctors, many of our patients there, unfortunately, are suffering a great loss of health. I'd like to invite the Ministry of Health to take action for this to be met. Again, there's Dursunbey Suleler Village. A pond was built here, and the pond watering started. But unfortunately, because the head of the village of Suleler is a leader of the CHP, unfortunately, it is not permitted to build a watering company for those villagers, for those people in the region. Here I see the AKP's sidelined, separatist, separatist attitude and these practices in Balıkesir, which I ask on behalf of the people of Balıkesir that it remain unresponsive to the district of Balıkesir, the ministry of the forest and the substitution.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0023par0119	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0024par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Tokat is a landslide in Erbaa district of Erbaa, in the past days, after a major rainstorm, and the size of the landslide is very large. Although it was large, the roads there were completely corrupted, and then, from the sewers, everything was completely worn out and broken, including the underground networks. Despite the fact that the mayor had kept his reports on the disaster and had applied for it, there was no help from the AFAD. With the winter coming, that region is a region of very heavy winter conditions. Once again, to the President of Disaster and Emergency Management, the funds they requested must be sent there immediately. If you don't, about 5,000 people will suffer a great deal of harm. And at the point of resolving the victim, he says that either teams must be sent here immediately or sent to help, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0023par0124	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0025par0127	Mr. President, thank you very much. In Tucson, a public service has not been performed for a month as a result of public reduction policies, such as subcontractorisation and electricity, as my friend, mentioned earlier, and a very painful event occurred on October 10th. A worker named Ibrahim Atan was sent on a mission with a bit of pressure to provide electricity because of the pressure of TEDAS executives and some managers in the province, and because of the work-slowing of workers in Ovacık district, he lost his life in a state of high tension. Twelve days have passed, no one has been taken into custody, no action has been taken. I honor Ibrahim Atan, a victim of policies that depend entirely on the liquidation of the public side of the state. I'd also like to make fun of the great rulers of the government, who can't handle an electricity issue in Tucson, who can't deal with TEDAS, and who are privatizing everything: I don't think you should deal with the matter of the course, solve this electricity issue, then I'll give you a full score as Congress Member! Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0027par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, a while ago, when Iğdır spoke to the people who insulted the Iğdır people, there was a serious problem, the deputy of the Mufti left Iğdır. And now a report signed by Iğdır Mufti Cüneyt Kulaz has stirred up again. In the name of a report that offends the people of Iğdır, excludes the people of Iğdır... The Deputy Prime Minister, who's in charge of openings, is here. How could you allow such a thing, Mr. Vice Prime Minister? How is this Mufti still serving in Iğdir, which separates the people of Iğdır? One day later, in Turgutlu, this time, the mosque that was built by the Iğdırites, where at the evening prayer of the congregation, a sign of piracy is being placed. What are you trying to do? I ask you, do you have a grudge against the people of Iğdır? What is it you can't afford? Leave the people of Iğdır in that sense, and take the Mufti who insulted the people of Iğdır from Iğdır, and judge wherever else you will.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0028par0138	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0029par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Some of the workers who worked at the ceramic factory in Çanrı Bullets had been granted a free leave of absence before the festival of Ramadan, when the government and the workers who sat at the table were unable to respond to their demands and started a sit-in. However, problems in the factory still haven't been resolved. Many workers have been laid off before the feast of the sacrifice. As of today, around 800-900 people have been laid off, and many families are also victims due to irregular payments on salaries. The workers' salary is two, three months each. On the other hand, we have already expressed the situation of the Aytac workers in Çarkesh. However, no concrete results have been achieved. 475 workers, who were fired and said to be reinstated by the new administration after the sale of the factory, are still waiting for the positive news to come to them, and they still haven't received their compensation. Workers of both factories expect help from the government. The trades and economy of the two factories are in bankruptcy. This is reflected all over the area, rents can't be paid. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0030par0145	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0031par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the national educational directorates' carry-on educational system, the National Education Directorate has been unable to carry children through service vehicles to central villages, and since schools have opened in İzmir, the National Education Directorate has not carried out its duties. No matter how you go to school with small children, the National Education Manager is trying to impose responsibility on municipalities. Hundreds of students, thousands of students can't go to school, their right to education is blocked; families are desperate, mothers are in tears. The National Education Director recommends that even five-year-olds go to schools alone in public transportation, without thinking about who will be responsible if anything happens to children who land on remote stops at schools. It's winter ahead. The Ministry must address the problem immediately by warning the National Education Manager. Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0032par0152	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0033par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, one of our chiefs from Sivaslı district of Uçaş has called, saying that the prices have not been announced and that the prices of this year have not been paid to them, even though it has been two months since they delivered the poppy capsules to the Land Mahuller Office. When I met with the Earth crop office to verify this issue, they said that last year's prices were valid again, the prices of this year's hash capsule have not yet been determined. This is a very serious problem for our producers, our producers, who are seriously victimized. This year's prices of poppy capsules must be determined as soon as possible and the victims of our producers need to be compensated. Government representatives, I hope, will listen to this voice from the baneman, make the necessary effort to determine the price of the poppy capsule as soon as possible and not really underinflation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. On the other day, a business murder took place in Manisa Soma, and over 20 workers, our fellow workers, and one of our friends, Jonah Güyük, also lost his life. We offer him mercy from God, and our condolences to his family. Nearly 12,000 workers died during the 11-year AKP ruling period in the work killings. On average, over 1,100 workers lose their lives in work killings every year; we are the 6th in the world, and we are the 1st in Europe. I wonder if our Minister of Labour and Social Security and the authorities, the concerned, are they doing the necessary inspections at these workplaces or not? What they didn't do is clear and obvious because there have been numerous work killings in Soma, but the Department of Labor and Social Security is just watching. I'd like to invite the Department of Labor and Social Security and the government to be more sensitive and more on the job. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0036par0165	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0037par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, I'm celebrating Gadiri Hum Day, the day our citizens celebrated Alevi with great enthusiasm and the day of custody to the Holy One, Ali. Second, four days ago, a tornado occurred in Bozyazı district of Mersin. More than 100 acres of banana greenhouses were damaged. Now I'm speaking to the ministers and to the authorities: these people don't have insurance, these people's loans must be postponed, the state must reach out to our citizens. As the Bank of Agriculture has taken away its land from the farmers in Kazanlı, it must be stopped, and the foreclosures must be prevented. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0038par0172	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0039par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I've cancelled the use of Ankara streets and streets as parking structures at the Ankara Administration Court, and the State Department has approved that decision. However, the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor is still using streets and streets as parking structures. The court's decisions also apply to the administration. Will both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism conduct an investigation into Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, which has not implemented the court's decision? Is this illegal procedure to be stopped? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0040par0178	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0041par0181	Mr. President, thank you. As you know, Malatya is not only apricots, but the grapes of Arabgir (Arabgir) are also world-famous and world-famous. The Köhnü grape is not worth anything this year, as it lacks money, an HES is being made on Kozluk Tea, which will allow the AKP government's decision to destroy the root grape. It's against all village associations, especially the mayor of Arabgir, Arabgir's eyebrow. But they are persistently trying to finish the finest tea in the region, Kozluk Tea, and unfortunately, they're also trying to destroy the root grape. Mr. Secretary Veysel Eroglu can hear me here. Give up this slaughter, and do not destroy Arabgir, and do not destroy Arabgir's beautiful grape, and his beautiful tea. The entire Arabgir is against setting up the HES, and we are against it. I'd like to ask the Council to do what's necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0042par0184	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0043par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite the fact that Çukurova, Çukurova, our Adana, has the most fertile land in agriculture, unfortunately our farmers, who are frustrated in wheat and corn, who can't afford their labor, had to sell their crops at a price of 30 to 40 percent less than last year's prices in sunflowers, especially when we traveled on this holiday. The fact that our apple makers, particularly the Canopian Strait, sold the box for $30 last year means that there are no buyers for $10 this year, that apples remain on the branch, that our farmers have had a lot of trouble paying their debt, especially the basic inputs of fertilizer, medicines and seeds, and that there are very serious problems at the hands of loan sharks, where the Justice and Development Party has the most productive lands in the world, where the farmer falls into the hands of the loan shark. Since this is going to cause some social outbursts and social difficulties, we recommend that the government's members be taken care of while they're here.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0042par0189	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0044par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Especially recently, it's possible to see a pollution of information through ODTU. Mr. President, at the time when ODTÜ was the mayor of Mr. Murat Karayalçın, 2/8/1991 and 347 Metropolitan Assembly Decisions have been carried out by the approval of the 1/1000-metre implementation plan on the 50m road connecting the highway to Eskişehir. It is also part of the 1990 Ankara Nazim Development Plan and the 1994-2015 Ankara Transport Mother Plan, which was approved in 1982, which proposed the structural plan in 1986. So it's not a new road. Again, 27 alternative projects have been set up and the ODTÜ administration has adopted alternative 27 projects, which were agreed to open the road with talks with ODTÜ in 2012. In a statement on the university's website, the ODTÜ Rector explained that there has been no wooding in the area where the road would be crossed since the 1980s. Over 600 of the trees that grow themselves in the region have been moved to different areas. The rest of the green in the bush, around 1,400, was deposited into the ODTU (ODTÜ) account. Mr. Melih Gökçek, our Ankara Metropolitan Mayor, says he can plant as many trees as he wants to be shown anywhere else, which he does. Every morning and evening in the area, traffic travels at the speed of a turtle. Passengers in two municipal buses are being taken down and damaged by an excuse for not having green. In fact, when someone's about to explode, the police are caught up in a disaster. These buses run on natural gas. An unfair and illegal opposition is being put on display. The important thing is to do a job for the benefit of people, to create a path, to achieve civilization. At the point of opening this road, the greater public interest must be looked after. And when it comes to green, I say, "I'm sorry, no one can compete with the AK PARTY," and I say, "Thank you."
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0045par0197	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0046par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. In the wake of the night raids on the Travel Park and ODTÜ, all areas of Antalya have been threatened by AKP. The forests are destroyed by quarryes, shores by Rant projects, and streams by HES projects. One of them is Ahmetler Canyon in Manavgat district and Karpuz Tea. Despite the reaction of our citizens, our peasants, one of the few beautiful places in the world, an important habitat, is about to be destroyed by the Ahmedler Canyon HES project. There have been serious tensions in the region, as construction works have been launched, and there have been more incidents today. The AKP is responsible for the damage done to our citizens. We're warning you from here: listen to the voice of the citizen, turn away from this error. Do not destroy Turkey's significant tourist value, its natural habitat. Not everything is money. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0047par0204	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0048par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. A worker was killed in a sad mining accident in Soma County. We remember him with mercy. This wasn't the first explosion in this mine. When there were three fires in a row in 2012, I submitted a question motion for the Minister of Labor to answer. In his own response, he stated that the mine had been inspected 10 times in seven years, that there were 66 flaws, that it was closed in 2011, but reopened only a month later. We Manisans know this mine very well, but politics knows it very well. This mine is one of the mines where the ruling party takes 4,000 workers to their rallying and greets the Prime Minister with "Barets." An invisible hand opened this mine a month after it was shut down because it had such political will behind it. It is this partisan approach that is responsible for the situation we face today. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0049par0212	Thank you, Mr. Special. Finally, Mr. Eryilmaz...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0050par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to today's difficulties with Syria, all our border gates, all our customs gates are closed. Within these gates, the footbridge border gate was closed five months ago, with safe passage, no problems, no explosions. However, thousands of our citizens who have studied in Syria and have relatives in Syria, Turkey have been unable to enter and exit Syria for five months, and there has been no explanation so far as to why this safe customs gate has been closed. This so-called door was closed for a month, but five months later, the door still hasn't been opened, and there's no explanation for when it will be opened. I'd like to know what this door is closed for and when it will be opened. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0051par0218	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Mr. Mehmet Müezzinoglu, Minister of Health, oral questions on the agenda, 1, 1447, 1547, 1998, 2093, 2094, 2096, 2101, 2103, 2132, 2153, 2186, 2187, 2188, 2203, 2283, 2284, 2285, 2286, 2317, 2329, 2332, 2340, 2375, 2407, 2408, 2409, 2411, 2413, 2415, 2416, 2418, 2418, 2418, 2494, 2494, 2694, 2694, 2629, 2639, 2629, 2690, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 2649, 269, 269, and 2409, 2409. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. Now there are three motions for Parliament research, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There have been many massacres against our citizens of Alevi in the history of our country. Many of these massacres have been carried out in an organized and methodical manner. Criminals are protected and often not brought to trial. One of these massacres is the marash massacre, one of the black stains of our recent history. Before the Maraş massacre, the Aleki homes and businesses were marked, and the massacre was carried out by these signs. On the night of February 26th, February 27th, the doors of houses belonging to Alevi were marked with various shapes in Yenimahalle and Karapınar neighborhoods of Adıyaman, where the Adıyamans resided heavily. The people who were terrified and panicked began to stand guard at night. In his statement, the Ministry of Interior said that children may have done it, but intelligence studies continue. The ministry's informal attitude has also been carried out in the CCTV footage, which should contain significant clues to the light of the incident. The fact that the security camera was turned off and that there was no video on a camera taken from homes increased anxiety and suspicion. The report, conducted by 6 NGOs, shows that there is even a lost hive of bees at a public meeting, and why are there no markings of homes? Although the first statements indicate that most of the houses marked were houses belonging to Alevi, it is later understood that all houses marked were Alevi's. On 15 March 2012, around 21 p.m., a letter was left at the doors of the apartments in the House of Honor 1, in the Harmandalı district of Yırkli district of İzmir Province, Turkey. The content of religious letters is as follows, my brothers and sisters! Return to your Lord. The Hour is near. The door of repentance is always open. So turn to your Lord and ask forgiveness for your sins. Then you will see that our prayers are not rejected from his presence. Bring forgiveness 100 times a day in the name of God. On Thursdays and Mondays, as much as you can afford, you must fast for God. Later, the neighborhoods gathered together to conduct a protest march and demand that the perpetrators be found. It has been said by the authorities that residents are anxious. On March 19, 2012, marks were placed on the heads and homes of some 40 streets of Alevi citizens living in Çağla, Cyprus and Onur neighborhoods of Gaziantep, in the District of Şahinbey, Gaziantep. Marking the streets with red dyes, single or double-edged red arrows, and markings on the walls of houses have affected the residents in a negative way and created a sense of threat. The public sought to be sedated by a statement on behalf of Gaziantep Alevi associations. On March 28, 2012, you will all burn to the school wall in Erzincan village. The fact that the school is very close to a police station in the region has raised several questions. Examples such as the threat and attack above took place shortly between February 27, 2012 and March 28, 2012. Historically, these incidents, which are very similar to the way the attacks and massacres took place in Marash, Çorum, and Malatya, must be taken seriously. These marks have led to panic and fear among the people. The fact that no one has been caught by law enforcement has increased panic and anxiety. The fact that the security cameras in Adıyaman were turned off that day and there was nothing found on a home camera, and that the school on the wall of Erzincan was within 200 metres of the police station, which had been written in Erzincan, caused fear and panic to create doubt and doubt. We propose and that the reasons for the events in Adıyaman, Gaziantep, İzmir and Erzincan have been the basis of the events in Erzincan, to open and investigate why the perpetrators were not caught long ago, whether the evidence was blacked out and protected and the perpetrators were protected, and that measures to prevent such events may be determined. 02.04.2012 [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 12) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 13) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 18) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Especially in the agricultural economy of our Tokat province, the 98th Constitution, in order to determine the measures to investigate the problems of tomatoes and tomato seeds that need to be taken. And we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened according to Articles 104, and 105. [[Slap]] 2) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Tekirdağ]] 6) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Sakarya]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 13) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] About 116 million tonnes of tomatoes are produced worldwide, about 16 million tonnes of this amount are produced in EU countries, and 8 million tonnes are produced in our country. Seven per cent of the world's tomato production is produced in our country, and half of the production in EU countries is done in the country. The tomato, which has a 40 per cent share in the total production of vegetables in Turkey, is also the head of hybrid seeds in its production. Hybrid seeds are derived from the genetically pollinating of the same species of plant with another plant that is not related to it. The native seed produces at most 2 tonnes per acre, while the hybrid seed yields a yield of up to 5 tons. Many of our tomato manufacturers turned to use imported hybrid seeds from the United States, France and Israel, rather than native seeds, as hybrid seeds were chosen to produce hybrid seeds, for reasons such as hybrid seeds for disease and harm, heat or cold endurance, the length of shelf life and high efficiency. Although the hybrid seed is high in efficiency, it can't be harvested in the second year, even if the export advantage is high, there's more consumption in the internal market. Even if our farmer wants to move to domestic production next year, the decline of efficiency breaks his back, and the production of these seeds also promotes and makes the intensive use of chemicals necessary in agriculture. Thus, every year, the Turkish farmer is redirected to the re-employed seed, so foreign companies and Israel continue to make a lot of money from seeding. Our farmer is condemned to imported seed because we don't have a productive, multinational seed project in accordance with the conditions of our country. Some of the tomatoes produced from the native seed, which is identical to its location, are unfortunately in the history of its seed, imported from Israel or France. Native tomato seeds, produced by the taste and culture of the palate in Anatolia, are seeds that grow almost without fertilizer, without medicine, and even without water in most of the land, with the taste of salt in our tables. The tomato produced from the native seed of our slap zone also separates from the local flavor and aroma and from other tomatoes and owes it to its seed. Although our native tomato comes with a taste, it requires more care and effort for our manufacturers. Our farmer is in danger of losing his tomato and market, which is famous for its flavor and flavor, which is low in hybrid seed or yield, which does not appeal to its taste or taste. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Hatay Province, İskenderun Province, is a green area (park) in the zoning plan within the municipality of Sarıseki Belde. But on the E-5 highway, 1869 island 2, 3 and 4. 1870 Island 1st with the lu parcels. The I-PEKS Tourism Asş was leased to the municipality of Sarıseki and the municipality of Belde. 1) The area mentioned above is considered a green area in the zoning plan, and the construction of the Yellowseki municipality of 1869 islands 2, 3 and 4. Are the I-PEKS, Hardworking Coal, Pure Coal and Bagapak coal companies operating in the green area of Alexander's Co-ordinatorship Management? 2) A fake employment license was issued under the names of Hard-working Coal and Sashpak coal companies by Sarıseki Municipality, and a month later, these licenses were revoked by the Undersecretary of Customs, and were issued by Alexander's Co-ordinatorship, 1869 Island 2. Why 3 and 4 when it's been issued and collected for the lot? You don't collect ecpriminal from lu parcels? Why has it not been implemented in the 23/9/2010 edition of the Ministry of Environment and Forests and in 868-56321, when all activities taken into place after 6/6/2002 were added to the facility due to an unauthorized increase of capacity in the press coal activity allowed in a 14753 square metre area? 3) Why was the evacuation of the companies, even though it was reported in Article 29/9/2010 of Alexander's Governor-in-Chief's Office of Property, 3060, that these parcels should be evacuated? 4) Under what legislation is commercial activity carried out in a green area of Alexander's subsidiary of property? If it's being run, do green-field businesses have an unofficial report under first-class non-employment legislation? In order to answer the following questions and to prevent environmental problems and protect the public interest of the people of the region, we will open the Constitution on the basis of the construction of the district of Alexander in Hatay, Sarıseki Municipality, and on the basis of the necessary research on the l-PEKS Tourism (asce) rental issues of the existing areas, in order to determine and implement the measures of the solution proposals, in order to inform our Parliament and our people. 1) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 5) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 14) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, at the last two meetings, members of the Public Economic Initiative Commission, who failed to hold the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk, on Tuesday (October 22nd 2013), which is today at 17. I'd like to ask them to meet in the OSCE Commission meeting room and make the choice of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 22/10/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Although they were elected by the public in the 2011 General Elections of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 22/10/2013 by Malatya MP Veli Agababa and his friends, they still have the possibility of escaping and condemning evidence and the investigation of the legal situation of the seven MPs held in prisons and the beginning of their arrest proceedings (1041 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Tuesday 22/10/2013. In the end, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0052par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I congratulate you on your last Eid of Sacrifice. As a result of AKP's policies since 2002, Turkey has become the world's largest prison for everyone. The AKP is breaking world records on justice. During this period, Turkey has the most students in prison in the world, and the most arrested unionists in Turkey are in prison and enough scientists in prison to build a university. Turkey is in prison in order to form an army again. There are at least three or four national newspapers in prison. The lawyers, who may form a bar again, are in prison in Turkey. Dear friends, the political man is currently in prison in order to organise a political party in 81 provinces. Now, when we look at all of this, it's not possible to call these things 'democracy'. In the name of our regime, it is not possible to say "democracy" but it is called "finger democracy" and we live in the example of this finger democracy these days. Dear friends, at this time in Turkey, we have faced another term that we have not encountered in our 90-year political history; the matter of the arrested MP. The matter of the arrested MP is just a matter of our own in the world, and we have never had such a problem in the history of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, we've done some research, and we haven't been able to find out if there's an example in the world. There's only shame and only us. This never happened in our 90-year-old republic history. See, in the past, a man named Mümtaz Faik Phoenix is arrested in 1950 (May 14, 1950) when the MP is elected, he is released. As we all know, in 1957, the leader of the Ottoman Division was arrested for defamation of the government, and in 1957, when he was elected MP from the Republican National Party, he was terminated. Fadil is in Akgundüz, the AKP group all know him very well, he is sentenced to four years and two months in prison for allegations against him, he is running abroad, he is wanted with a red bulletin. In the 2002 elections, he is elected an independent MP from Siirt, and when he is elected an Akgundü MP, the search warrant is lifted, and he arrives in Turkey on November 9, 2002. Once again, Mr. Sebahat Tuncel is arrested while he is elected independent MP in 2007, released from prison on July 25, 2007. So, what's going on around here, guys? First, the MPship of Hatip Dicle, which the YSK allowed to run for office, is being stolen. Then, by the votes of the public, eight arrested people are elected MPs. Eight of your friends are no different from the lawmakers who were elected and released in the past period. Dear friends, the Constitution is the same, the law is the same, but unfortunately elected by the people's votes, Kemal Aktaş, Engin Alan, Ibrahim Ayhan, Mustafa Balbay, Selma Irmak, Faysal Sarıyıldız, Gürsel Yıldırım are still in prison.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0053par0399	Orator Tigris...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0052par0400	In the 24th term, seven seats are still empty, seven veins of Parliament are blocked, so our House is missing, and our friends' seats are empty, and all seven of our friends, elected by votes like us, are being held in 11 square meters of cells. For them, the letters TBMM are not short for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; the TBMM is short for the large parliamentary prison of Turkey; the shame is on all of us, especially the Speaker of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the Speaker wrote a letter at the beginning of the term asking us to avoid actions that would undermine the reputation of the House. Now, for God's sake, does it lower the reputation of the House's Congress's public defenders when they talk to each other, or does it lower the fact that there are seven lawmakers in prison? Who would believe that, dear friends? This shame brought us into the political history of the world. Can the people of this House believe that they chose this House? While seven MPs are under arrest, can the House be considered honorable? Now, can Congress solve the problems of the country that can't solve its own problem? See, in his letter İzmir MP Mustafa Balbay, who is now listening to us in Sincan L Type Prison, who has been arrested only because of his journalistic activities, he says: "This issue remains on the agenda of the Assembly with all its spirit. In parliament, therefore, Turkey has a problem with freedom of will. Dear lawmakers, as lawmakers of the 24th century, if we believe in democracy, if we believe in law, we must solve the issue of freedom of will. We're ready for this as the CHP Group. We want democracy not just for ourselves, but for everyone, we've done it in the past. Look, for the Prime Minister, someone said he couldn't even be a mayor, but the 22nd-century Republican People's Party MPs cleared the way for that. We didn't do it because we loved the Prime Minister very much, we did it because we were members of a party that brought democracy to Turkey, and we got the Prime Minister to become a MP first, and then we made him Prime Minister. Now that I think about it, he can't even be a leader. He's a valued friend who's insulted the chiefs. Can a man who believes in democracy and who's been there do that? Can he let seven MPs stay inside? Is such a thing possible, and can we call it democracy, dear lawmakers? Now, in the long term of democracy, there are three months of judicial package coming out, dear friends; there is no solution; there is no resolving, there is no more judicial package; now, the AKP, who is master of packing democracy, explains the package of democratisation. There's an interesting arrangement in this package, the precious MPs; the letters "L" and "L" are given freedom. There are two things about this situation: Yesterday, Mr. Gülşah Balbay said very nicely, while the use of the letters of the letters "Q" and "X" was released, the valued MPs were held in prison by Mardin, Şanlıurfa, and Şırnak. Is that a thing? What kind of intimacy is that? Who's gonna believe that? Only your lawmakers, and only yours, will believe that. And you're freeing these people on the keyboard, and you're putting all the journalists who use these letters in prison. Dear friends, I have a report. I'm about to present this report to the members of the group. We have prepared this report with Mr. Free Special, Mr. Nurettin Demir. This report is not our work. Dear friends, this is the AKP who filed the report. Unfortunately, the policies of the AKP (AKP) who led us to prepare this report appear to be making more reports. When we wrote this report, we visited the MPs one by one, and we came across something, all of the arrested MPs are being tried for their duties. Whatever Ibrahim Ayhan is accused of in Diyarbakır Prison, Mustafa Balbay is charged with similar things in Sincan Prison. Dear friends, look, I'd like to give you an example of what several MPs are accused of: going to the city building of the central district party's political party's election work, press statements, attend meetings, party training; preparing banners for election rallying; making an opening speech at the party's educational institution; hosting the party's party's party's party member; regularly going to and coming to the town building of the party's municipality; going to pay a visit after the deaths; listening to music in Turkish, Kurdish and other languages; listening to press statements; participating in the press statements; participating in an opening statement for the party's campaign; attending a meeting; meeting with the party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party's member; meeting; meeting; meeting with the party's party's head; meeting with the party's head of the party; meeting with the party's heads of the party; meeting with the party's heads of the party; meeting; meeting with the party's chief of the party; meeting with the party's chief of the party; meeting with the party; meeting with the party; meeting with the party's chief of the party's leaders; meeting; meeting with the party; meeting with the party's chief of the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's chief of the party's chief of the party; meeting with the party's chief of the party; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting with the party's chief of the party's chief of the party; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting; meeting with the party's chief of the party's chief of the party's chief of the party's chief of the party's chief of the party's chief of the president; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the party's leaders of the president of the president; meeting with the party; meeting with the president of the party's chief of the party's leaders; meeting with the party; meeting with the party's leaders; meeting with the There is one charge, my dear friends, that this is the first time in our history in the AKP, that the mentality that produced crime from an unpublished book has done the same thing with lawmakers. Kemal Aktaş is writing a book about the negativity he lived in prison in 1980, and he is not suppressing it, but the AKP government is being tried and charged for the book he wrote about that Diyarbakır Prison during that election period. If you're not the MPs for finger democracy, you'll support this motion of investigation today and end the misdemeanor of the arrested MP. I salute you all with such feelings, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0054par0410	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0055par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to show you guys this. You can't read it, can you? It's called a mazbatata, which, on June 12th, one day after the election, when you were elected, they went to the city election board and gave you a place like this because you became a congressman. Here are our arrested MPs... this is Faysal Sarıyıldıldır's court, this is the court for which he has been elected. Now, Faysal Sarıyıldız, Selma Irmak are my fellow MPs from Şırnak, and friends who have been imprisoned since April 2009. In the most important days of the Oslo talks, at the most heated times -- Mr. Atalay here -- when the truce talks were held, peace and resolution were discussed. When we raised our number of mayors, 50 in the 2009 local elections, immediately following week, on 14 April, our party organisations were operated. In these operations -- there were then three co-captains -- three co-Chairs, three central executive board members, 11 members of the party council, 13 members of the organisational commission, two deputy mayors, seven members of the local government commission -- 54 people were arrested at the party. Mr. Agha just explained here in his report, who's to blame for what. So you all know math, you passed, you got a degree. April 2009, and now October 2013, they've been under arrest for four years and eight months, you know? Four years and eight months. Well, do you know that this arrest was carried out in a private court of law? You know that. Do you know why he was tried? Your ideas. What ideas? They are under arrest for their opinion that Hatip Dicle had just convicted him in the European Court of Human Rights last week. So they didn't call for violence, they didn't do violence, they were arrested in a private court for their opinions while performing the activities of a political party. That special authority court is closed. He's under enemy law there, and he's been under arrest for nearly five years. Well, the requested punishment -- you're a lawyer here. The penalty is five years in TK 314. This MP has been under arrest for four years and eight months. May God grant these courts, these judges, this justice! What a job! You've asked for five years, let alone MPs, even if they're normal citizens, and you've raised them 50 percent with the Anti-Terror Act, seven and a half years, five years in prison, and he's still on trial. Well, there's an appeal, there's a Supreme Court of Justice... There's no turning back in criminal justice. Let alone political representation, the will of the nation, the law, equality, justice, there's persecution, violence, tyranny, law. He says, "I am a powerful man." Now, I want to tell you that eight months after these friends of ours, our other mayors were operated on this time, and now we have about 10,000 political party members, most mayors, inside. Now we want to ask you very clearly: the process of peace. We say, the process of solution. We say, "The gun hasn't exploded in a year." We say, "No mother has cried." We say, "No one has been hurt." Shouldn't we be more careful with this year, this wasted time, this country's future? So the idea is to remove the barriers to freedom of organization, to ensure the competition of ideas, to open the way for political representation, that's all true, but as a lawyer, I'm telling you that all lawmakers and lawmakers of all three parties have been arrested from day one as a legal scandal. On the day they were first elected, the previous samples were listed, as they were in the years up to 50, as they were elected, the MP had to be released. What does the Constitution say to 83? There are exceptions to 14 things, aren't there, friends? Look, except for the 14th article of the Constitution. Now, I will bring you the 14th article as a lawyer. Mr. Aydın, Kubat, you're a lawyer too, please, look. The lawyers are in the front. In 2001, during the Ecevit coalition, the final joke of the 14th article has been changed, saying: "These conditions are determined and enforced by a law. I ask you now, did this law come out? He didn't. So, how are these arrested MPs under the law that hasn't dated since 2001? Their freedom has been overtaken, and their freedom has been overtaken, and they have been wronged. I'm a court of special authority there, I read what I know, I do what I know. I'll come to another point. We're not three parties... yes, the Speaker has called three parties so we can discuss the matter of the arrested MP. That day, as deputy leader of the group, we were in the study together with Mr. Pervin Buldan, and there were members of the group from CHP, as well as members of the group. I made it clear that the AK PARTY must be replaced by the Article 14 of the Constitution, which has to be changed to the AK PARTY and to the other parties. This special authority doesn't take the heads of the courts, let's change them so that they can get them. We said: "No, brother, the crime that encourages separatism, destructiveness stays outside." We said, "Don't do it, you have a arrested MP." Look, you got hurt first. However, during the second meeting, the Speaker said: "Contact three parties, let's resolve this." We met then and predicted a change in CMC, and we wrote it down. There was Emine Gülter Tarhan then, in the study, Mr. Hamzacebi, and those three parties we agreed on, we gave to the Speaker. Now the MPs will be released. The Speaker said he'd deliver the situation to the Prime Minister. He went to the Prime Minister, he came, the brake broke there, the rope broke. Look, fellas, this is no way to play the Clave with the will of this nation. We're going to the election in almost a year. It is persecution for these MPs to remain in prison in this manner, an insult to the will of this House. We'll have a constitutional vote tomorrow. When there are six voting differences in the amendment, this will create a debate. Every congressman has a vote. From this day forward, the Speaker of the House has to bring this incident up as the first, first, at breakfast tomorrow, when he's meeting with the party groups to end this illegality. We have to get rid of this shame. If we do not escape, We will surely question them in the matter of the election. That's it, we'll go to the election, we'll tell them how democratic you are, how respectful you are of the will of the nation. Is the will of the nation in Şırnak a will, not a will, but a will? We'll tell you about it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0056par0427	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In his favor, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat won't be afraid. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0057par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to explain the views of the Millitarian Movement Party over the parliamentary inquiry motion to investigate the legal situation of the arrested MPs, to determine the necessary legal regulations, to end their arrests. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we have always respected the law, we have known the establishment of the state of law in terms of healthy society, we have said that law is necessary for all; in this regard we have found the neutrality of the judges in the Constitution and the independence of the courts indispensable. However, the situation of the arrested MPs who have occupied the country's agenda since 2011 is that we bring democracy forward. We're building the rule of law. It's because of the AKP that created politics with slogans like that, and its political power, waving its power over the judiciary, trying to establish law like the sword of Damocles. The judiciary, unfortunately, has been manipulated, shaped, and ignored even the simplest principles of law, by its outputs, including pressure and threat speech, affecting decisions by the Prime Minister and his organization. In modern law states, evidence is first collected, witnesses are heard, then charged with crime, and then brought to judgment. However, in AKP Turkey, there was first a verdict of conviction on the events and individuals that it had a problem with for its political future, and then the evidence was tried to gather. The documents were introduced later, edited -- whether it was relevant or not -- were included in this fiction. The innocence of the people until proven guilty. You are guilty. Your wife has been turned upside down. Prove you're not guilty. You've reached the point. Long imprisonments have been transformed into punishments, people's honor, dignity, honor. His family and children have been victimized. While the conditions of imprisonment have been clearly stated in our penal code, people who have served this country, who have come to certain places, have been arrested immediately, regardless of the importance given to those who have taken a machete and committed theft. What are you doing? Will you not fear God? Why is this persecution against the person who is left behind by the Creator, who is in the presence of the prophet? ▪ If he does not stand up to the prime minister of a country, he pays the price, as well as he pays the price. The hatreds and hatreds have been thrown out. Engin Alan Pasha, who dedicated his entire life to his country, was pleased to be kept inside knowingly, willingly. My dear nation, in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, they are politicalizing the judiciary. This is exactly what we meant when we said it. ▪ His judgment is being made in the backyard. The AKP is trying to create its own judgment. That's what we're trying to say. The Prime Minister wants the whole country to feel the same way about him, so that everyone can pledge their allegiance to him. He never tolerates different thoughts, different minds. That's why the institutions that need to be kept in a non-political position, the independent judiciary, the judges, even the prosecutors, do not hesitate to use them. The rule of law was murdered during the AKP. Instead, the law of the AKP and its elites, which are above all, has been established, as shown only in authoritarian dictatorship regimes. Sadly, some AKP spokesmen called it a judgment decision, and stood aside and watched this persecution. However, the same mouths were able to throw salvos, even criticising the final judgment. I won't let them eat my man. They've been able to make special laws in one night. In accordance with their commitments to international forces bringing themselves to the government, some PKK-based MPs were removed from prison and moved to Parliament. But the arrested MPs, particularly Engin Alan Pasha, may enter the elections. The document was given by the YSK, but continued to be kept inside. Dear lawmakers, these MPs are elected people like you and us. Thus, the people's decision is the will of the nation. Those words are made especially known, saying, "It is the truth that comes out of the ark, and it is the same which blesss the ark." Sir, the judgment is deciding for the nation, and what should we do? The AKP mentality says, "Run away from the rabbit, and hold the hound." When playing the game, he ignores that the people have chosen them personally. I ask: Was it so difficult for these individuals to be tried without arrest? Wasn't it your duty to protect and protect these people's rights when the party speakers sang like parrots, calling them human rights? I vouch for them, they're my representatives. Shouldn't you hear him scream? Let alone do anything in the face of these violations, you've been silent, you've ignored, you've even held applause in the corners. You ignored the Constitutional Court's decision for long imprisonment, even because it didn't work out for you. The intent, yes intent, is clearly in front of you, to drive the country away from the national and unitary structure, to take revenge on the people who are standing up against your policies, which include the removal of the achievements of the republic and democracy, to intimidate the community, to intimidate the state, the Turkish Armed Forces' defence reflexes, to disable the army, to pave the way for the PKK. A few months ago, we visited Mr. Alan in Sincan Prison, and he greeted us with the same stand. You may be sorry, but there were no hints of frustration, fatigue, surrender, so Engin Pasha was the same Engin Alan Pasha as the mountain. As he left, he said, "Yes, Mr. AKP has asked me to tell you: Mr. Nevzat, if the nation wants to punish our struggle and discipline us under the proper circumstances, please tell them that we left our youth in the mountains of Bingol. While everyone was enjoying their warm bed, at minus 20 degrees, we covered ourselves with snow, pillowed ice; we got lice, got sick, burned by the longing of our children. Let them not rejoice, but these conditions that they now wish to punish us -- they will not believe -- seem to us as a palace, he said. Do you know what's going on with us, Congressman? He added: "When the terrorist of the country is being hunted down, we are being held inside while the baby killers are being made heroes. In these darkest days of the land, there's nothing we can do about it, our lungs are burning. Mr. AKP MPs, the honorable lawmakers who spoke of truth, justice, service, and the Supreme Court, may I also share with you the statement of Engin Alan Pasha, which he sent to the Speaker of Parliament after his decision so that we could tell you in front of history, that we have warned you. I later gained my command, rank, and rank as a member of parliament. After all, I'm the son of the Turkish nation, that's the truth, I'll go to the ground with it, and the rest is empty. I don't know how many democratic packages you intend to release the terrorists, and look what he says: I'll only regret that they're pairing us with the PKK people and making us hostages to get them out. I'd rather die here than join me with the separatists and trade me in, and I'll live here with honor for the rest of my life. We've done nothing to undermine the Turkish nation's confidence. This case is a political case, and the outcome will be political. This project is a project to weaken Turkish Armed Forces. I hope no harm will come to my government. Note that he fears not even for himself in his narrow prison, but for his people. Dear MPs, the Engin Alan Pashas stood in the right place tomorrow when the state and the nation were marketed at the negotiating table with terrorists. They did not bend, they did not bend. They will be called, "Please don't sweep us into the hole." They will be remembered without begging. You will either be condemned by the co-chairs of the BOP, the speakers of the terrorist organization, both by God and by the servants. Hopefully, your children won't be shy enough to face their nation tomorrow and hesitate to pronounce their last names. For arrested MPs, persecution must now be terminated, and this period of employment must be closed at once. Don't throw the ball at anyone, it's the AKP's responsibility, or else you'll see that the day will come and the tide will turn, and the wrongdoer will face injustice. From here, I once again remind you that Engin Alan Pasha's family was entrusted to the Turkish nation and our party, and his honor and dignity was entrusted to the lovers of the nation, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0058par0444	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Against you, Chandırı MP İdris Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0448	Mr. President, despite being elected by the public in the 2011 general elections of the Republican People's Party, I have taken a pledge against the motion to investigate seven MPs in prison for different reasons, to investigate their legal conditions, to finalise their arrests, and to establish their representation duties under parliament's roof. I salute your high council. First of all, I'd like to respond to some of my views on the situation of imprisonment and the measures related to the arrest, and then I'd like to answer some of the statements that the speakers have not expressed here in particular in the context of the research proposal, but as a political statement. Mr. President, first of all, it has been made clear to us in the Constitution where the parliamentary inquiry motion will be made and what its scope is. In accordance with Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105 of our Interior Charter, the Parliament shall be granted a motion to investigate, and the commission shall be set up only in this way, and the commission shall examine its issues in Article 98 of the Constitution to obtain information on a specific matter. We need to first evaluate the issues that the orators here represent in terms of procedure. The issue stated here is that a conversation is taking place in the field of a completely independent judiciary, and that we have all taken an oath from this legislature that we are loyal to the Constitution, and that the 138th Article of the Constitution is forgotten in the Parliament, and that the areas of the judiciary are clearly expressed in Article 138.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0060par0452	Brother Idris, how many times have you broken this oath?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0453	... that no one should interfere with the judiciary, that no one should instruct the judiciary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0061par0454	The Prime Minister instructs the court.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0455	Sadly, however, our orators continued to speak here, forgetting these rhetorics and the provisions of the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0062par0456	Do we have the Constitution or the Constitution? You've taken the Constitution under your feet.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0457	Of course, arrest is a precaution and an exceptional rule. In particular, valuable oratories, we need to make it very clear from here that, under no circumstances or circumstances, the Turkish Penal Code should not be referred to except for those mentioned in Article 100 of the CMK, and should be referred to after the arrest measure is reached. However, given the issues expressed here, I especially say that all of us are members of this Parliament that must defend the sanctity and immunity of this House of Parliament. However, by mentioning their names on the stand, especially the actions of all citizens required to remain without arrest are an attempt to suspend this Parliament, and their trial is based on this type of crime.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0063par0460	People are the people of your will. People, respect your will.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0461	Please consult your consciences and consider once again how important the will of the nation is.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0063par0462	Yeah, people picked them out, people.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0463	Yeah, well, the people's choices, unfortunately, were also under arrest as well as the dates they were chosen.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0063par0464	The YSK gave them documents, saying, "You can enter the elections."
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0465	And when Mr. President of the Republican People's Party, who has made this proposal in particular, asked for a server on a live broadcast programme that he had made ahead of the June 11th elections, Mr. Kilicdaroglu in the programme of Adem Yavuz (Adem Yavuz), he puts it exactly this way. A legal debate on the nominations of the Ergenekon defendants is under way. As of today, there are different explanations. Mr. President, when asked what you would say about this matter, Mr. President, during a period of opinion that even if they were elected MPs, they might not be able to get out, Mr. President General says: "Yes, they may not; Sabah Kanadoğlu had already explained this. In the end, it depends on the discretion of the judgment. Says the president of the main opposition party. It falls to all of us, as elected MPs of Parliament, to honor a general president's word, and they have stated that they will respect the judgment in every way, especially when it is expressed in the same direction as Kanadoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0064par0466	Do you believe every explanation of Kanadoglu?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0467	However, at the later stage, especially after the election, when he is reminded of this statement, it is considered a total coup of the judiciary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0065par0468	Why did you make law to the Undersecretary of MIT in one day, the Undersecretary of MIT?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0469	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we, never, never... here's what we have to say as lawmakers of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0065par0470	Why did you take it away from the judge?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0471	We are sworn here that we will remain faithful to the Constitution, and in accordance with our loyalty...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0065par0472	Then there's no respect for judgment.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0473	...we state that the trial is independent at every turn, and in all regulations regarding the functioning of the judiciary, we say that arrest should be a measure and that arrest should not be used as a means of punishment.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0065par0474	What did you do, what did you do, and what did you do?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0475	And in this way, when the fourth court package decided to continue the arrest or arrest, we removed the legal arrangement from this Parliament specifically for why the arrest was issued or why the continuing grounds should be written in detail. So, again, as the AK PARTI government, it's the AK PARTI power that we've made in the penal code, by the regulations we've made in the Penal Code, by the 109th Amendment of the Law of Criminal Accounts, and by the continuation of the AK PARTI power, which deregitates the establishment of the control. Now, from here, forgetting all this, I think it's inappropriate and unnecessary to ask for a review of the situation of the arrested MPs inside the judiciary's jurisdiction as part of the research motion.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0065par0477	How do you evaluate the MIT Law, the MIT Law?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0478	Because the arrangements here, they're completely... it's also important to know that legislation, judgment, and governance are different areas of duty. As members of Parliament, we cannot intervene in any way in the jurisdiction.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0065par0479	Explain the MIT Law, the MIT Law. You passed the law overnight, overnight.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0480	And I'm particularly specific about something that one of our orator friends has expressed here.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0066par0481	Is the Prime Minister interfering or not? Did he or did he not instruct the court?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0482	From here, I would love to answer the words of my friends.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0067par0483	No one's holding your hand, tell me.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0484	But on this stand, on the stand, he was convicted of attempted coup...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0068par0485	You've shown mercy to the coupgers, you're the greatest blower!
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0486	...and I'm not going to respond to the words of someone who puts him in such a humane manner in the face of the possibility by reading the letter of a man whose decision has been finalized. Especially, as the others have expressed, by turning the people's will into a finger democracy...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0487	You've shown your side by sitting at the same table with the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0488	I assure you, I will not respond to this nation's blessing and to a criminal who does not respect what this nation has chosen.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0489	We're with the pasha. I can see your side.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0490	But you should know very well: When it comes to your work, you must take the judgment, honoring what they say, that the judgment is independent, neutral, and we respect their judgment. And when it does not suit you, you must keep the judgment here.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0491	What happened to the MIT Act, the MIT Act?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0492	That's not true! What we need to do here is believe in the rule of law at all times and under all circumstances, and act as a requirement of the rule of law. What is it? As stated in Article 138 of the Constitution, it would not be right for us to intervene here in Parliament, never, ever, in a case being seen.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0493	There's a Constitutional Court ruling, a verdict. Why did you ignore that decision? There's a Constitutional Court ruling.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0070par0494	Mr. President, we've been listening, so listen up.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0495	Dear oratories, I particularly wish to express that after the festival, our agenda is clear, the budget will come in the coming process, different issues will come in, the main opposition party's opposition to Turkey, and the agenda of our dear counterparts in Turkey will be much more meaningful, and the issues that will occupy the country's real needs.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0496	Is there anything more meaningful than people's will? Is there anything more meaningful than people's will?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0497	...to bring up the work here. But we specifically want to know that we, as the AK PARTY government, and as a majority of Parliament, are never in favor of anyone being held prisoner. We believe that everyone should answer fairly, objectively, independently, but you instruct us from here, as the legislature, intervene in the affairs of the judiciary and guide the judiciary. I'm sorry, we won't do that either.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0071par0498	The required sentence is five years, five years in prison, MPs.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0499	What did you do in the MIT Law?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0500	Because what we're doing...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0501	You didn't do the same?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0502	... the Constitution is loyalty to the Constitution, and what we do is to do what the nation wants us to do.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0069par0503	You're doing this by leaving the MPs they want out of Congress?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0059par0504	With these thoughts and feelings, I declare that we will vote against the motion to investigate, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0072par0506	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0073par0507	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0074par0508	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0072par0509	Just a minute, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0075par0511	Sir, he's been taunting me about my speech, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0072par0512	How? What did he say?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0075par0513	He made it sound like I was saying the words I didn't say. So...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0076par0514	What sentences, what did I say?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0072par0515	Here you go, Agha.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0077par0517	He said the same thing...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0072par0518	I guess he'll tell you what happened on the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0078par0522	Dear friends, at first, here, you were elected by the people's vote, and today, seven members of the prison have been elected by the people's votes. There are practices in the past in Turkey, there are examples in Turkey that have been selected in the prison in the past -- I have just said -- Mr. Osman Division headman, Mr. Fadil Akgundüz -- that you know very well without him. Look, he's serving four years and two months in prison, he's running out of the country, after he's elected MP, the arrest process is eliminated after he's elected MP in 2002. There's an example of Osman Division head. Turkey has had examples of this since the beginning of Parliament in the history of the Republic of Turkey. But look, I invite you to have a little conscience and a little respect for elected lawmakers like yourself. You're calling the judge an intervention. For God's sake, you know that, and all of Turkey knows that. There has never been a period of interference in the judiciary as much as during this period. Isn't it the Prime Minister who told the judge? Isn't it the Prime Minister who, when an investigation was launched against the Undersecretary of the MIT, raised all of you in one day -- the one we call a democracy of the finger -- to change the law, preventing the prosecution of the Undersecretary of MIT and the people assigned to MIT? I'm making this up, it happened during this period. Look, guys, there are five years in prison for lawmakers, four years and eight months in prison. People are inside on suspicion of tampering with evidence and running away. There's an example here, two years of our congressman friend lost, and he's here with us now. It's a total political struggle, purely political revenge. If you had a conscience, if you had faith in democracy... Look, you have CHP, you have MHP, you have BDP, you have three political parties, three opposition parliamentary groups, each of them have MPs in prison. I invite you to show a little respect, a little respect for the national will you call it, the national will you keep in your mouth. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0079par0529	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0080par0531	I'd like to correct something said about our group, about the Engin Alan.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0079par0532	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0080par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the 11th article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that no one can be tried without the right to defend himself, and cannot be convicted without trial. Now, there's a big difference between a prisoner and a prisoner, you all know. A man under arrest has not yet been convicted, and he cannot be convicted; if you consider him guilty, you will act against human rights, and you will trample the law. Do you think it's right for a prisoner to be elected a member of parliament to be put into practice as if he were a prisoner? Of course it's not true. If this person enters the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the court finds him guilty in the end, here's what's going to happen: after the title of legislature is over, he will withdraw his sentence. Now tell me, how many people have files inside this House, and for what reason are these files not being processed in court, and do you know how many of them will be convicted? So, look, there's been a mistake here. The continuation of this misdemeanor does not suit the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but on the other hand, I will end military custody. On the other hand, it is in the same position that a country under military custody is not in the right function if it is not under civilian custody. So interfering with the courts, taking prosecutors into custody, or making them out of office, of course, is a violation of the law. Thus, considering that Engin Alan Pasha is a member of parliament in the form of detention, his present condition is not worthy of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0081par0542	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0082par0544	Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, president of the Republican People's Party, took the speech he had made to a television programme before the 2011 elections to a far different location than his original purpose. That's why I'd like to speak according to Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0081par0545	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0082par0548	Mr. President, good lawmakers, law is for everyone. Law isn't just for those in power, it's not just for those in opposition, it's not just for the victims. Today, with the power of power, we do not need law, but the law is under our command. Let's hope tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the law at your disposal doesn't try to answer to you. The 16th Article of the French Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights states a very basic universal rule of law. There is no constitution in countries where rights are not guaranteed, where there is no separation of forces. So you may have a written constitution, you may have a text, but if the rights are not guaranteed, if there is no separation of forces, there is no constitution. There is no constitution in Turkey today because there is no division of forces because the judiciary is under the rule of the law, or rather under the Prime Minister. There's been an illegal sledgehammer case. The right of defense has been violated. Even though no one was obliged to prove their innocence, though the defendants proved their innocence, these people were convicted with unlawful evidence, fabricated evidence. Look, Mr. Necdet is responding to the Special from prison, Mr. Engin Alan says that 237 Turkish officers were slaughtered like sheep. Everyone who served at the Military Academy was arrested at that time. Naval Academy, Air Force Academy commanders, assistants, chiefs of staff, they've all been arrested, only the Commander of the Army Academy stayed outside. He is General Necdet Special. Look, he's making a serious claim, Mr. Engin Alan, that's a bet to be heard, folks. In that case, the law has been put under the table, and if the prosecution is defending a case where the law is undermining, then I'd have a hard time considering that person as a lawyer. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0083par0554	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0555	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0083par0556	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0557	Mr. President, Mr. Aghababa has just made several unnecessary and unjust accusations that the Prime Minister has instructed the court...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0083par0558	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, this period has been discussed very much, and it has been brought up as a research proposal, and it's been tried to be brought up on other grounds, and it's been tried to be mentioned here, especially as if it were the only important issue of Turkey, and we've answered each time. Look, just now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's testimony is acting as if it doesn't exist. For once, I'd like to point out, dear friends, that our nation can hear us. It's called the arrested MP. None of the arrested MPs are in this House. No one has ever been arrested after being elected. What's done? Those arrested by all three opposition parties were appointed MPs, tried to do so.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0085par0565	There's an example in the past; there's a leader of the Ottoman Division, there's a Sebahat Tuncel.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0086par0566	We're not going to ask you what we're going to do.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0567	No MP has ever been taken away after being elected. Again, I'll come to Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's statement. Was he reminded of that when he was nominated? Reminded.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0087par0569	They came in pajamas from prison in pajamas.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0570	On June 3, 2011, Kanalturk, journalist Adem Yavuz Arslan, said this very clearly and clearly in his interview with journalist Adem Yavuz Arslan.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0088par0571	Osman Division chief also became a member of parliament while he was under arrest.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0572	Yes, these are prisoners. If elected tomorrow, what can you do if the court does not release them?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0089par0573	He's not a prisoner, he's just a prisoner.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0574	Yes, they may not. ▪ Sabih Kanadoğlu has explained this before. He says so. It depends on the discretion of the judiciary, he says.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0090par0575	Mr. Aydın, you're a lawyer, I don't suppose you've been to some classes?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0576	Now, this is also a wishful thinking, knowingly. Are you going to agree to the judgment on that day, and today you're going to object?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0091par0577	You're a lawyer, but you're not a lawyer!
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0578	You want us to instruct the court today?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0092par0579	You haven't been to some classes, Mr. Aydın!
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0580	We don't want anyone to be under arrest. Arresting is a last resort. The upper limit of the arrest has been eliminated by this power...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0092par0581	You haven't been to some classes, I swear. I'm going to ask for a motion to investigate those teachers of yours.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0582	And even now, the courts can stand trial without arrest, even if they're tried for 20 years, 30 years. This government has lifted the upper limit of the arrest. Again, this government said that the arrest should be based on concrete grounds, one by one, clearly written...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0092par0585	Mr. Aydın, we're going to ask the teachers who taught you, did you or did you not attend those classes?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0586	...and we're not a government that likes arrests, we're not one that likes them, but I'm sorry...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0092par0587	He hasn't been to some classes, Mr. Aydın. What kind of teacher is that?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0084par0588	... we can't give instructions as an AK PARTY to an event that's been sanctioned by the judiciary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0093par0590	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0094par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0093par0592	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0094par0593	Mr. Ahmet Aydın did the same thing, sir. That sentence, which Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, is being ripped from the real context. Mr. Kilicdaroglu is, of course, a law-abiding president. But there's no such thing as bowing to the law of the judiciary where the judiciary is lawless, not exposing that lawlessness. Mr. Aydın says something very different, sir. Ben, if you'll excuse me, I'd like your word.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0095par0594	I said the same thing, I said the same thing, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0093par0595	All right, fix it. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0095par0598	Mr. President, I've responded in the same way, and I've stated that there is no such thing.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0093par0599	He'll answer now. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0602	Republican People's Party Chairman Kemal Kilicdaroğlu is a member of the Republican People's Party, a person who respects the law, as does all Republican People's Party members.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0097par0603	He's the president.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0604	Where the courts are lawless, we can't be advocates of illegal decisions, you can.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0098par0605	Is he the one who decides that you're illegal?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0606	Look, it could be you. Here you are saying a sentence by breaking its original purpose, its context.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0099par0607	What's the point?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0608	Of course, if the judge had made a judgment by respecting the right to defend, respecting the laws of universal law, those decisions would have been accepted by all of us. The issue is here, in the case of the Sledgehammer, in the case of Ergenekon, the law is under way.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0100par0610	It's political, it's political.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0611	The prosecution is obliged to prove its claim. These people are condemned with fabricated digital evidence. Now you expect us to respect that decision. But I'd like to ask you this: 2002 elections were held, and the Justice and Development Party came here most of the time. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan couldn't become a member of parliament, he couldn't enter the elections, he had a curfew.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0100par0612	He couldn't even be a mayor, Mukhtar!
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0613	Was that true? It was against democracy. We said as the Republican People's Party, Mr. Deniz Baykal said that this is against democracy, we can't explain it to the world. Let's change the Constitution, let's open the way to Parliament for Mr. Recep Erdogan. We all voted together. Why can't you show the same democratic attitude now?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0101par0614	But you have ruined Deniz Baykal.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0615	Why are you blocking the path of Parliament for the MPs the nation's will says we want to see in Parliament?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0102par0616	Tell me clearly what your request is.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0096par0617	How can you throw aside a memorandum of understanding that the three opposition parties reached a compromise in time? Is this your idea of democracy? My time is up, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0103par0620	What should we do?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0104par0621	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0105par0628	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0104par0629	Well, I'll grant you a roll call before the vote. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Agababa, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gök, Mr. Öğer, Mr. Öner, Mr. Acar, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Öz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Ekutça, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Coach, Mr. Light. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 13/09/2011, the law proposal for sexual abuse of children in Turkish Penal Code 46 of CHP Group Chairmanship has not been taken into consideration until now in the number of commissions and the General Assembly, as well as the number of penalties for those who perform the religious ceremony and those who perform the ceremony without marriage. I would like to inform you that the law shall be brought to the General Assembly under Article 37 of the House of Parliament. Yours truly. As the bidder, Mr. Sena Kaleli. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0106par0650	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the proposal of the law of Erdogan Ürk, which we have asked to be brought forward under Article 37 of the Civil Code. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers continue to be the bleeding wound of Turkey, despite sexual abuse, especially abuse against children, all screaming and screaming. You all know the numbers: one child is abused every four hours. Turkey is in total decay. What is the government for? What are the institutions supposed to do? Why don't we try to change the patterns that make violence, child abuse legal when we're trying to destroy all kinds of patterns, custody? Even in Parliament, we perceive and insult women's solidarity as chastity through gender. Why do we women approve of men's ownership, their control, their approval? The reasons for children's marriages in violence and rape are described as backwardness, feudal structure, lack of education, and there are experts from the Forensic Medical Association who tolerate abuse, commit violence, send abuse to their homes for family integrity, social workers, soldiers, reduce sexual abuse and violence, and civil servants who do not carry out the obligation to report crime, are we to maintain the legal system of education, and the legal system of education. With all due respect, we're all partners in this crime, suicides, murders, victimization, guilty. Social gender is a political system. The problem of human and gender-based development is also the problem of development. On the one hand, the woman's conflict, which is encouraged by religious traditions, encouraged by early marriage, and wanted to exist in every field, does not solve the woman's existential problem. In education and in all areas, discrimination and oppression that separates men and women from one another is taboo sex, which unfortunately causes people who can't socialize to experience sexual hunger and uncontrollability. The mindset, which sees marriage as the main element of the cycle of life, compels the child to marry his rapist. One of the most important features of sexual crime is the fact that it can destroy not only its victims, but other individuals and communities in society. Crimes against sexual freedom are one of the most common social problems, but there is no criminal trial in this prevalence. Sexual crimes have the same consequences, triggering and encouraging in any dimension. It is a positive change in the Turkish Penal Code that the legal values protected in sexual crimes are defined as general morality, social or family freedom, but the penal code has not completed its duties in this area. High-value lawmakers, the work done with the Sexual Crimes Bill, the development of the country is important for the reputation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and must be expedited. Please, let us do our part for our children who want to read and play. My respects.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0107par0657	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüceer. Here you go, Mr. Houser.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0108par0661	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own authority on child sexual abuse, one of our country's most important problems, and on the proposal of the law to prevent punishments so that the grooms can be deterred. I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screens. ▪ Who sheds the rain? / How many sheep is that? In fact, this song, written 20 years earlier, clearly reveals the situation that we are in today. If we ask ourselves, what has changed in the 20th year? It's the name of the only unzile that's actually changed. She appeared to us many times as Ayþe, as Fatma, as Hatice, and only one of them appeared to be 15 years old Hatice, who was four months pregnant, whose body was found in Batman Tea. In her short life, she has no photo of Hatice, no population record, but even as we listen, there's a drama that freezes her blood. His parents are forcing him to marry a man at 13 for money, Hatice, and he can last two years. Then he runs away and takes refuge in the father's furnace, and unfortunately, here he is being raped by his cousins. Four months later, she appears to be pregnant, and the family council decides that Khadija would be strangled and sacrificed to Batman Tea. The funeral of Khadija, who had been protected, protected by his family, sold for money, raped, and then sacrificed to Batman Tea, was spent days in the morgue, and, if you remember, no one had taken care of it and was buried without burial. Dear lawmakers, how can this be called a tradition? What kind of a tradition is that? Now, we need to establish these and similar events correctly. For one thing, it's not called tradition, it's not called honor, it's not called destiny; it's called sexual abuse, it's called violence, it's called murder, it's called slaughter, it's violence, it's called violence, it's value, it's value, it's value, it's called killing a person, it's value, it's a woman, it's a child, it's called the cover of a life under the name of a man, it's supposedly the name of a human being. Governments who can't protect our children, our women, who can't provide them with a healthy, safe, peaceful environment, and anyone who condones this violence, this murder, this violence, this abuse, anyone who ignores that crime is as guilty as those who commit it. In this country, our daughters, our women's fate shouldn't be death, rape, violence, and protecting our women, our children, is the state's primary responsibility. Children are still getting married in our country for a cow or two. Our little girls are getting married at a young age so that poverty, lack of education, escape from domestic violence, or one less mouth. Turkey is number 2 in the world for children's brides. Bring one child out of every three marriages. A third of the women in the shelters are children's daughters-in-laws. We have 181 children's brides, and this is just the tip of the iceberg. Of the 10 illiterates, eight are women. Mr. President, can we please silence the General Assembly?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0109par0666	Go ahead, go ahead. They're listening.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0108par0667	Dear lawmakers, 41.5 per cent of young girls neither read nor work. The number of families suing to marry their little girls under the age of 18 has increased by 94.2%. Can we prevent domestic violence, early marriage, abuse in a country like this? The Prime Minister says: "Turkish multi-population Turkey." He says, "It's not enough now," he says, "it's a power and a gain." He's right, but the power is by raising equal individuals with qualified, educated, economic power. There is a strong relationship between fertility and education. As education increases, fertility decreases as prosperity increases. Look, according to five years of Turkish Population and Health Research data, up to three children, up to four children, a woman with two children has joined the working life of 30.4 percent of the children. Mr. Fatma Şahin says: "We will increase employment. You will offer at least 3, 5 children and increase employment while the facts are out there. Ladies and gentlemen of law, as in our proposal, it is very important that the law be enforced with heavy sanctions. More important, however, is the implementation of decisions, decisive practices. The solution to the problem is the implementation of equality policies like human rights. Under the guise of culture, tradition, faith and tradition, violence, abuse, child marriage is a crime of humanity, a violation of human rights, and a common result in education, economics, social and cultural solutions should be shown in common resistance to these primitive actions. We can only overcome this shame together, man and woman, all together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0110par0673	Thank you, Your Highness.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0111par0674	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit01spe0110par0675	I'll look for enough to decide before I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 7th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. İstanbul MP Erdogan Erdogan was unable to find the number of decision-making votes to be taken directly into consideration according to Article 37 of İçük. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, we're going to move on to the part of the agenda with the oral questions. (x) Verbal question motions are not read in the General Assembly and are added to the report. Ladies and gentlemen, as I stated in the section of the hearings, I would like to call Mr. Mehmet Müezzinoğlu of Health to the stand to answer the oral questions he wants to answer together. I'll give you an hour to answer. Here you go, Mr. Muezzinoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0112par0062	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I stand before you to answer the questions proposed to our Ministry and to our government. I salute the High Council. I hereby congratulate you on the feast of sacrifice, that we may meet on many holidays in peace in the nation. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's (6/3948) original no. I present the answer of the oral question motion: The prescription sale of drugs is not a new practice; rather, by a general reminder to our pharmacists in the Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals No. 1262, as well as to the prescription of medicines available from the past. No one, except the physician, has the authority to formulate a treatment plan and start a drug. The drug is a substance used under the care of harm and harm, and the use of random medications without consulting a physician may result in too many negative results to compare economically. In particular, certain drugs can cause serious problems due to unprescribed supply, stimulus, and addictive substances. On the other hand, the practice of family medicine and access to health care in our country are also free of charge. There is no need for a new study at present. Thank you for your concern. Mesut Dedeoğlu also refers to the Prime Minister (6/4301). The answer to the question motion is: We have three occupational hospitals in Ankara, Istanbul and Zonguldak to provide protective health care for business accidents and occupational health care, diagnostics and treatments, advice. However, according to Article 22/1/2023 and Article 27823 of the Law on Loss of Acquisitions and Loss of Occupation, published in 11/10/2008 and 2701, the Ministry of Health has been authorized to organise health board reports based on the loss of vocational power due to occupational illness. In addition, occupational illness has been described as temporary or permanent illness, injury, or state of spiritual failure, due to the nature of the work which is being performed according to Article 14 of the SGO Law 5510. According to the current definition, there is no limit to the admission of a disease in our country as a occupational disease. Mr. Kamer is our Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutogluna (6/116). Answering the question motion: Turkey has recognised the National Transitional Council as the sole legitimate representative of the Libyan state and its people, and our government has pledged $100m in aid to finance our humanitarian and development assistance to Libya. The wager is a grant and the responsibility of our authority institutions. In addition, a loan agreement for a total of $200m was signed in Ankara on July 6, 2011, providing a $100m cash supply loan for Libyan emergency needs, and $100m in commercial loans for the supply of basic needs from our country. The loan agreement is based on Turkey's current debt interest rates, and, as with other loan agreements, Article 10 of the Law on Public Finance and Editing of Debt Management No. 4749, the Council of Ministers shall authorise the application of the agreement on loans. The amount on the loan has been transferred to two accounts opened by the National Transitional Council in a Turkish bank. The National Transitional Council has transferred $100m in cash-need loans to the Benghazi branch of the Libyan Central Bank through its official representatives for this purpose. Documents related to this transaction have been submitted to our side under the relevant clause of the loan agreement. A $100 million commercial loan is earmarked for buying food, medicine and fuel in our country as part of banking transactions. The loan was paid back to our country in March 2012, with interest.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0113par0068	Mr. Secretary, before we go to the next question, Mr. Young has a question, he has only one. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0114par0070	Mr. President, actually, I asked the State Department, the Minister of Health is responding. For one thing, the answer is not enough. So it was written that some of this $200 million was given in bags, and now there's another answer. And it was said that it was a grant, and it is now said that we got it back. Let them send us the documents about it then. So that's a non-responsive response. Then -- of course, over the events of Libya, a long time ago -- we brought them in and gave them to him. How did you get $100 million in this bag for him? Who did you deliver it to? Whether or not the fields have thrown it in their pockets, we have open things about it, but now it is said that we have paid with a wire transfer. Should we believe in the situation at the time or believe in the present situation? The answer is incompatible, and it has answered in a way that distorts the truth. I want documents on him if they collected this money in Libya. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0115par0073	Thank you, Mr. Young. Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0075	Mr. Young, our government has pledged $100 million in aid. I'll read it again: The subject is a grant, and it is the responsibility of our authorities.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0117par0077	Mr. Davutoglu flew $300 million in a bag, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0078	100 million...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0117par0079	$300 million...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0080	I've read the answer. If you want it again, I'll pass it on to the Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0118par0081	Well, then why are you the answer? Let him come.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0082	Kütahya MP Prof. Dr. Alim Iztın (6/4088) is the main no. The answer to the question motion is: According to TÜİK data in 2012, the province of Kütahya has a population of 5,664. The central population of the district is 3,365. There are one community health centre, two family clinics, one family health centre, three health clinics and one (A2) emergency health care station in our district. Health care is provided in our district with 3 physicians, 1 dentist, 4 midwife, 4 nurse, 4 public health technicians, 2 medical secretary, 1 emergency medical technician and 2 family health workers, and a total of 19 medical staff. Citizens living in the district receive hospital services at Simav Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ismail Karakuyu State Hospital 30km away. Health care already provided in the district is carefully maintained, without causing any shortcomings, setbacks or interruptions, and it is possible to plan new health structures if necessary criteria are met. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğütın (6/3759), main no. The answer to the question motions is: The legislation provisions for implementing family medicine are valid for family physicians who provide health care in the country's primary health care services, and family medicine units are not in our provinces as single physicians only in the Silverhouse, Bayburt, Batman, Hakkari, Şırnak, Ağrı, Kars and Iğdir. As a ministry, our priority is to provide services at a family health centre, two to six family clinics together. Taking into account the population density, residential distances and geographical positions of the settlements, the family medicine unit is established in densely populated areas, in order to make it easier for our citizens to reach primary health care. The decision of the Council of Ministers, dated 24/12/2010 on the use of permits of our family health physicians and family health staff, which are adopted by the 2010/1237 Council of Ministers' decision on their participation in the service education and congress, was written under the provisions laid out in the Charter of the Ministry of Health. According to the relevant clauses of the legislation mentioned, the family physician or family health worker, or family health worker, may temporarily allow service by agreeing with physicians or health staff who carry the conditions specified in Article 5 of the Article 5 of the Charter and its basics. This agreement is applied if it is deemed appropriate by the directorate, and if that is not possible, it is incumbent by our public health department to appoint a temporary family physician or temporary family health worker. In the event that family physicians and family health staffs are assigned to the services prescribed by our Ministry and in extraordinary situations such as emergencies and natural disasters, there are necessary measures taken by our public health department to continue the ministry's work under the governorship of that province. In addition, the practice of family medicine is being carried out on voluntary basis, and our physicians choose the units to serve. Payments to our family physicians are clearly specified under the heading of the relevant legislation. According to this, the family health centre will be paid each month according to the minimum amount of the price of the ceiling for the costs of the family's physical and technical conditions provided by the family's health centre, the family health centre, with which it serves the contract's family physician, the rent, electricity, water, fuel, telephone, the Internet, the information processing, the office materials, the small repair, the counseling, the security and medical spending materials, according to the results of the purchase power of the provinces published by Turkey's Statistic agency. The list of our single-medical family health centers across the country has been presented with a written, verbal motion given by the congressman on the same issue. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's (6/4007) main no. The question motion: As it is known, the obligation to employ disabled staff in our country by 3 per cent of institutions and organizations is organised by Article 53 (53) of State Officers' Law No. 657. For this purpose, a total of 1,817 disabled personnel were placed in the central and rural agencies of our Ministry and its institutions after the Responsibility Officer's Audition Exam on 29 April 2012. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4325) is the main no. The oral question motion: The first Crimean Congo bleeding fever in our country in 2002 caused the death of one of our resident citizens in the province of Kahramanmarash until now. Since no vaccine has been found today, which has been proven to be effective for the Crimea Congo bleeding fever disease, and is the basis of the treatment, it is important to take personal protection measures to protect yourself from the disease. So in 2003, we were more interested in education for both society and healthcare workers, and we carefully carried out these studies, as our Ministry followed up on the detection of cases in our country. In 2013, according to the risk assessment of the condition of the Crimean Congo bleeder, we identified primary and secondary settlements and conducted training studies within that scope. In the first priority areas, our medical staff went door to door, informing each other about disease and protection measures in front of each of the homes, as well as the number of seven years and more people living in the first priority areas. In the second priority area, collective information has been conducted using places such as schools, mosques, village rooms, and coffeehouses. Also in schools, training has been carried out through messages and information provided by our Ministry using posters and brochures. In addition to educational materials such as posters and brochures by my ministry, television films were prepared and shared with local television stations because the disease was seen in rural areas to inform and draw attention to citizens. The field has also been studied with relevant experts, and measures have been taken under the advice of the Science Council. Scientific studies, particularly the development of vaccines for Crimea Congo's hemorrhagic fever, are also heavily supported. A significant distance has been made in the vaccine development project, supported by our ministry. In addition, research for new treatment options continues. A study on the use and effects of hyperimmune has also been conducted. In case the cases of hemorrhagic Crimea Congo fever should be transferred, the local dispatches have been set up so that there will be no problems with the transfers. The approach algorithm for people who come with tick grips has been set up and updated in 2012 by the Crimean Crimea Congo Fever Case Management Algorithm. However, in the cities where the disease is common, it is supported by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism that supports this work, especially cattle, to reduce the population of ticks. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4287) is the main no. The question motion: 319 facilities in our country are flooded with water. These facilities are supervised at least once a year by the Turkish Public Health Institution and also by public health agencies with at least three months of periods. The standards for the annual audits of the facilities and the parameters to be looked at in these audits have been determined by the Convention on Human Consumptionful Waters, given the amount of production per day. In addition to production-packed water production facilities, the market is subjected to inspection by at least three months each. Both the production site and the market controls can detect microbiological and chemically incompatibility in the waters of the damacana. The market presentation is not allowed until the irregularities of the detected waters have been removed. Mesut Dedeoğlu MP (6/4283) is the main no. Our answer to the question motion is: After reviewing the data from the Turkish Verification War Report published by our ministry every year starting in 2007, the number of people suffering from tuberculosis in our country appears to decrease by 6 per cent per year. There is no increase in the number of people who have had tuberculosis in our country in recent years. In the last five years, this is what you've seen when you look at the distribution over the years. In 2008, 18,452 patients were registered in 2009, 17.402 patients, 16,551 patients in 2010, 15,679 patients in 2011 and 14.691 patients in 2012. In addition, the National Tuberculosis Control Programme is being implemented to reduce the current burden of disease in our country. As part of our successful Health Transformation Programme, our Ministry continues its Tuberculosis control services in cooperation with national and international organisations. The work of the National Tuberculosis Control Programme is conducted along with private sectors and volunteer organizations in the framework of the Anti-Tuberculosis Strategy, established to create a world without tuberculosis. The infrastructure required for tuberculosis control is provided as the Ministry of Human Resources, Budget and Program. In addition to our ministry's political commitment to tuberculosis, 179 public health centres operating across the country are also being provided with access to the health care services of our citizens through the participation of other institutions in our ministry's activities. Our Kütahya MP, Mr. Professor Dr. Alim Ilk, 6/4090 is the main no. The question motion is: Kütahya Simav Assoc. Prof. Dr. İsmail Karakuyu State Hospital continues to offer service at 135 beds with capacity reduction, while serving with 230 beds in a closed area of 6,892 square metres prior to the earthquake. A new 150-bed hospital is planned for the planning of our Ministry in Kütahya Simav district and is under construction. After an earthquake in Kütahya Simav district on May 19, 2011, the damaged blocks of the Simav Assoc. Prof. Dr. İsmail Karakuyu State Hospital have been evacuated due to the safety of a patient and health care offering continues in unscathed blocs. According to the decision, the Ministry has begun projects to strengthen its service buildings, considering the ability to submit a qualified health care presentation in accordance with the policy of health policy. If there is a lack of physical space in terms of post-profit service presentation, the existing hospital is considered to build a prefabricated additional block on the land area. Our Ardahan MP, Mr. Ensar Öğün (6/3752) is the main no. The question motion is: 853 staff members are employed in our ministry's institutions and institutions in Ardahan Province. The difference in wage between our ministry and the staff in its subsidiaries is due to the fact that some of them are staffed and some of them are working in contract positions. There is no price or salary difference among the same status and position staff. With the transfer of contract personnel to the staff, these differences will be over. Our Kütahya MP, Herr Professor Dr. Alim Ilton (6/4042) is the main no. The question motion: Between 2002 and 2013, no shipments of our ministry and its subsidiary have been made. Our Ardahan MP, Mr. Ensar Öğün (6/2879) is the main no. The number of emergency health services stations in Elazığ district is 25,577. There are 38 emergency ambulances in emergency health care in Elazig district 112, and the population per ambulance is 14.808. A total of 392 staff are in charge of emergency health care, including 17 doctors, 19 paramedics, 197 ATT, 75 other medical staff and 84 other drivers, and respond to urgent health care. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4628) is the main no. The question proposal: Many programs for babies and children have been successfully implemented and have begun to yield results. Programs and studies on preventing disability are our main strategies, leading to infant mortality. At this point, we, the Ministry of Health, conduct a lot of work to protect and improve the health of children. Our efforts to produce new programs and move the existing programs forward have brought fruit to fruition, the determination that our governments and the Health Transformation Programme have shown on this subject so far. At first, the practice of family medicine, which increases access to protective health care and improves the quality of services, has contributed substantially. Specially, we still run programs to protect and improve children's health: Enlarged Immunization Program, Baby Death Watch Program, Newborn Basic Maintenance and Resuscitation Program, Newborn Intensive Care Program, Feeding Programs, Mother Milk's Technology and Baby Friend Hospitals Program, 6-24 Moon Baby and Little Child Feeding Program, Turkey -- Like Determination, D Vitamination and Development of Bone Health Program, Iyot Inadecution and Iyotylation Program, New Networking Programmes, National Programs for Humanity, National Research Programs, Children's Development, Children's Development Programs, and Children's Inflations and Intensive Care Program. The deaths of a large number of babies and children worldwide have also been accepted by international communities as an indispensable indicator of development. The reduction of children's deaths was determined to be one of the eight main contacts of the United Nations' Millennium Declaration and the Millennium Development Goals, and the goal at the beginning of the new millennium was to reduce the deaths of children under 5 years of age by 2015 by two-thirds. At the 1988 Turkish Population and Health Research, the rate of death of under 5 children dropped to 23% in 2008, at a rate of 97 in a thousand. According to a 2011 study by the University of Istanbul, this figure has been identified as 11 in a thousand. With this decline, our country is among the few countries that have reached its development goals ahead of its time and past its goal. Our country's achievements are clearly recorded in the United Nations' publications on this issue. Turkey is the fifth fastest country in the world to reduce child mortality by about 80 per cent from 1990 to 2001. Both the records of our ministry and the study of independent academic institutions indicate that we are in a better position at child and infant deaths than international institutions have reported. However, world health statistics, published annually by the World Health Organization, have been used to compare other national data. In the 2013 world health statistics, the rate of death of children under the age of five in the world was 51 in a thousand, while that rate was 15 in a thousand for our country. The average rate of child mortality of the high average middle income group we are in has been reported as 20 per 1,000 years, while the average rate of child mortality of a child under 5 years of age in the European region has been 13 per thousand. And that shows that the point in which we are in terms of child mortality has improved considerably over the years. So once again, what we need to underline here is how quickly we get to this level. Over the past 20 years, the world average has been 40 per cent, while the European region's average has been reduced by 60 per cent, while our country's decline has been 80 per cent. Between 1960 and 90 years of OECD's baby deaths, we have managed to fit 30 percent of the decline in 30 years into the last eight years. As a result, I'm happy to share with you the concrete evidence of our value to child health. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/3996) is the main no. Our answer to the question motion is: As it is known, the price of treatment costs for the treatment of the general health insurance holders is being issued as the Health Services Price Commission, established under Law 5510, which is also a member of our Ministry, and published as the Social Security Institution Health Appliation Act in the Official Gazette. In this scope, the price of health care has not been increased in the 2013 Health Application Report, published by the Social Security Agency in 28597, dated 24/3/2013. For example, a dental exam is $7, an acrylic fully prosthetic single jaw is $150, a pulmonary graph is two directions, $12.8, and a 3-D ultrasound is $39. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4571) is the main no. The answer to the question motion is: As is known, the process of serving staff in the public institutions and institutions of our country is carried out by service to the workplace, which is dated 25/02/2004 and is published in 25384. In our ministry, the public hospitals institution of Turkey, which is currently serving outside our central hospital in the medical community, and the staff of the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices and the Strategic Development Presidency are serviced and serviced 98 vehicles for this. As of 2/1/2014, the ministry at the Medical Central Settlement continues to work with the service to move the staff in our central units. Our Ardahan MP, Mr. Ensar Öğün (6/3749) is the main no. The answer to the question motion is: Our ministry and its establishments serve 1,196 personnel in the District of Silverhouse and 776 personnel in the Bayburt province. The difference between our ministry and the staff that operates in its subsidiaries is due to the fact that some of them are staffed and some of them are in contract positions. There is no price or salary difference among the same status and position staff. With the transfer of contract personnel to the staff, that distinction will be over. Our Kütahya MP, Herr Professor Dr. Alim Ilk (6/4383) is the main no. The answer to the question motion is: 613 midwives and nurses appointed as public defenders in the title and branch in question serve in our country health homes. Also, the answer to the question motion of our Kütahian MP, Professor Dr. Alim Izwart (6/4080), as of November 2002, has been on duty at Kütahya Simav Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ismail Karakuyu State Hospital under our ministry, where 11 attending physicians were present in the hospital as of the latest condition, 2 anesthesiology, 1 biochemists, 2 children's diseases, 1 skin and venereal diseases, 1 physical medicine and rehab, 1 general surgery, 1 breast disease, 2 internal diseases, 1 maternity disease and 1 carotidology, 1 day in the hospital as of which is reported, 1 day-on, 1 neurosciology, 2 neuroscitology, 2 neurosciology, 2 neuroscitology, 1 2414 other physicians, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, and doctors, and doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, and doctors, and doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, and doctors, 2 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, 2 doctors, and doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 doctors, 1 Simav Assoc. Prof. Dr. İsmail Karakuyu State Hospital has been scheduled and appointed as one specialist and three pracysian physicians in the category of women's disease and obstetrician medicine, which was carried out by our Ministry on 5 September 2013. In addition, staff planning was made in the nurse, health officer and health technicians' majors at the hospital, which was also mentioned in the September 2013 appointment theory. As part of the current human resources of our ministry, we will continue to plan physicians, specialists and other health staff in the coming period to increase the health-force capacity of Dr. Ismail Karakuyu State Hospital. Our Gaziantep MP, Mr. Dr. Mehmet Şarmahin (6/3813) is the main no. The answer to the question of lu: given the capacity of our ministry's human resources, there are not enough specialists in some of its expertise, and our health institutions and institutions have the fairest and equalest personnel planning and distribution. In order to raise the health care presentation to higher levels throughout our country, healthcare policies have been set forward and are being sought to increase human capacity. Our country is divided into 29 health centres in terms of health care presentation and health planning as part of the General Assembly of Health Planning 2010/50, published by our ministry. For each health centre, the population, the transportation facilities, the health care body, the conditions of health facilities, the service capacity and the kind of health resources that are available are determined to assume the position of the region's health centre, as well as the municipalities in the lower region. The central district of the lower region has been strengthened, associated with the districts. Smaller boroughs are connected to fortified counties in population density. In this regard, the district of Halan is able to receive health care from our ministry's health institutions and institutions at Gaziantep district. However, our ministry has assessed the planning of attending physicians in child health and disease at Gaziantep Carn State Hospital in the following days. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4289) is the main no. The question motion: The prevalence of obesity in our country, as in the world, is increasing. According to the results of Turkey's Food and Health Research 2010, the prevalence of obesity was 30.3 per cent in the overall population of 19 years and above; 20.5 per cent in men and 41 per cent in women. Our ministry's 2011 Research on Chronic Diseases Risk Factors was found in obesity at 44 percent in women over 20, 17.9% in men, and on average 26.4% in total. The results of Turkey's Population and Health Research, which have been repeated in our country every five years, appear to be increasing in women's population. This was found in 1998 when the 15-49-year-old group 7.405 married women were 18.8 per cent and 23.9% in 2008. Obesity is a risk factor for vascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, and a wide variety of chronic diseases. According to the World Health Organization Global Status Report, at least 2.8 million people die each year due to excess weight and obesity. According to our ministry's 2004 study of the Turkish Load of Diseases, 57,143 deaths can be prevented in total deaths related to the prevention of obesity, which constitutes 13.3 per cent of all deaths. In co-operation with relevant institutions and organisations, Turkey's Healthy Food and Movement Life Programme has been prepared and published in the Official Gazette as the Prime Minister's General Assembly. Actions specified under the programme are being implemented. A variety of studies have been conducted for the current status assessment and monitoring. In 2010, primary school age children (in a 6-10-year-old group) had a 6.4 per cent obesity rate in children of Turkey to determine the state of obesity and weakness. In 2010, two of our studies were completed, and obesity was found in our country by 30 percent in adults. Children and district distributions have also been obtained in this study. This year, the European Regional Office of the World Health Organization and the Childhood Obesity Research of 21 countries have completed field studies, statistics, analysis and reporting. Our school health studies continue. As a result of our work with the Ministry of National Education, which we have conducted with the Ministry of Education, dated 21/7/2011, the National Ministry of Education has made it mandatory to have energy drinks, other than natural mineral waters in the school canteens, gas, soda, the sale of flavored beverages and chips, and auto-selling machines, instead of milk, butter, yogurt, juice, fresh-squeaked juice, and fruit that can be sold with fresh juice and grain. The menu models for full-time education schools and sample lunch lists have been prepared. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the National Milk Council of the Ministry of National Education, and our Ministry of Education are co-operation with the School Milk Programme in elementary schools. The Food Friend School Programme has been updated according to the World Health Organization criteria. For the first time in the 1st and 4th grade class, there were two hours of physical education class, while for the first time, there was a new course under the name game and physical activities. In 2014, educational training was planned in schools. Our public information and awareness efforts are being conducted. In our 81 counties, there are programmes for healthy nutrition, nutritional hygiene, school-age children, feeding of the elderly, feeding of the elderly, feeding of anemia, heart-vascular disease, fatness, and such diseases. Pedometers have been taken in order to encourage physical activity of individuals applying to the family physician. In addition, by monitoring the obesity we create within the Family Medicine Information System, they are directed to health care institutions, specifically to identify and provide treatment for our homely-needed morbid obese patients. Sixty obese and intensive care ambulances were taken for the immediate or treatment of our obese citizens. Mesut Dedeoğlu's (6/4009) original no. The answer to the question motion is: In 2012, 32 health investments, totaling 5,312 beds across Turkey, were launched. The table that shows the distribution of the hospitals that have been activated according to our provinces is included, and I will send the painting to our congressman. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4300) is the main no. Our answer to the question motion is that at certain times in the market, production inadequacies and for similar reasons, there may be difficulties in supplying various drugs. However, there is no such thing as saving health expenses by our ministry and therefore becoming difficult to access to the drug. Our ministry has written a book dated 26/9/2012, dated 90850, with drug companies, associations and unions about preventing patients from becoming victims because of drugs that are not available in Turkey, although it is licensed in Turkey. In this article, it has been written and verbally asked by companies to report to our Ministry at least a month before the names of drugs, which are at risk of not being provided in the market for various reasons, were lost on the market. Our ministry is working towards preventing them by predicating drugs that can cause citizen's misery in the market. The list of medicines that do not need additional approval from the Ministry of Health for medicines that do not exist in Turkey is constantly updated and is prevented by the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals from providing medicine from abroad and causing patient harm. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/3952) is the main no. The answer to the question motion is that the Turkish Public Health Association produces scorpions, diphtheria, tetanus antiserums. Diphtheria, tetanus, strangulation, polyo, influenza, and the conjunctive pneumococcus vaccine used against pneumonia is formulated and filled in our country. In the last decade, 1 billion 898 million 251,000 dollars have been paid for vaccines that have not been produced in our country. With all the stages of vaccines, our efforts to produce them in our country continue. The budget for vaccines taken to avoid disease and which cannot be produced in our country is in the following table. I'll send the painting to our congressman. The main no. 6/3792 of our Adana MP, Mr. Ali Halaman. The answer to the question is: As you know, the main reason why we employ sub-employee workers in public institutions in our country is because the number of staffed employees in institutions has decreased over the years. Given the current staff situation, there will be major setbacks in service presentations in many departments with a high volume of work if the workers are not employed. Re-employing a large number of staff workers in public is closely linked to government employee employment policy, the country's plan, budget and economic balance. Such an application could result in high cost to the country's economy, but it would also be in violation of Turkey's public administration organisation change. A total of 3,375 sub-employees are employed in the relevant units of our Ministry and its associations in Adana Province and districts. According to our government, some studies are being carried out to address the various problems of sub-employee workers, but it is not necessary to conclude that their involvement should be taken into office under State Officers Act 657. With that respect, there is no study of hiring sub-employees working in our ministry. Osmaniye MP Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (6/3984) is the main no. The answer to the lulu question is: I answer the verbal question as to whether the physical therapy and rehabilitation unit within Osmaniye State Hospital will be moved to a district outside Osmaniye. As part of the Health Transformation Programme, which has been implemented by our ministry, restructuring health care is intended to provide efficient, quality and easy accessable health care with the most effective use of existing health resources, determining the new roles of health care institutions available in the country's municipalities and districts, and acting in accordance with the role of the designated service role of each health institution. In line with these goals, it is intended that health-determining health-determination resources should be provided rationally without creating the capacity of health care in a region-based understanding, by identifying health facilities and medical equipment needs, by identifying human strength needs in the field. In accordance with the current planning in Osmaniye province, the sheltered part of the physical treatment and rehabilitation unit within Osmaniye State Hospital has been moved to the additional service building in Garden district, and the number of beds has been raised from 19 to 30. In the main service building in Osmaniye district, patients who are applying on their feet are still being treated at the physical treatment and rehabilitation clinic. Patients who have already been settled down on a date at 9:00 a.m., patients who have been put down during the day are 14. Patient transport services are taken to the Garden Physics Treatment and Rehab Center, where our patients in exceptional condition are transported in our transport ambulance. Patients who are discharged are transported by our patient transport services every day at nine and twelve o'clock. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/3951) is the main no. Lulu's oral question motion: The total number of patients waiting for a heart transplant in our country is 367 as of 23/7/2013, and the number of patients receiving a heart transplant in 2012 61. The total number of patients waiting for a kidney transplant in our country is 20,581, as of 23/7/2013, and the number of patients receiving a kidney transplant in 2012 is 2.903. Live transport is 2,397, cadaver transport is 524, total 2.900. The number of patients waiting for an extremity transplant is 43, and the number of patients receiving an extremity transplant in 2010 is 3. The number of patients waiting for facial and hair skin grafts is 3, and the number of patients receiving facial and hair transplants in 2012 is 4. The number of patients waiting for a small bowel transplant is 2, the number of patients who received a small bowel transplant in 2012 is 5. The number of patients waiting for a cornea transplant is 4,898, and the number of patients receiving a cornea transplant in 2012 is 1,913. Our Kütahya MP, Herr Professor Dr. Alim Ilton (6/4079) is the main no. The answer to the question motion is: Kütahya Havn Assoc. Prof. Mustafa Kalekli State Hospital, where 13 specialist physicians are serving as of November 2002, as of today's momentum, we have four anesthesias, two brain and neurosurgery, one biochemistry, three children's diseases, one skin and venereal disease, one infection disease...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0119par0118	Mr. Muezzinoglu, our hour is up. Our deputies with questions also have requests for additional explanations.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0119	I'll finish if you want.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0119par0120	How many questions were there?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0121	No, let me finish this.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0119par0122	Finish him off, okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0116par0124	... 1 physical medicine and rehabilitation, 4 general surgeons, 1 general surgery, 3 eye disease, 4 internal diseases, 1 female disease, 2 cardiology, 2 ear nose throats, 1 microbiology, 1 neurology, 3 orthopedics, 1 radiology, 1 mental health, 2 urologists, 5 practitioners, 6 dentists, 136 nurses, 48 others, and 236 medical staff are active. While there is no shortage of medical staff in attending physicians and other majors as of the current situation at Habbitian Doctor Mustafa Kalekli State Hospital, which has been strengthened since 2002, two specialists and six practitioners have been scheduled and appointed in the department's 52-period theory of state-service obligations on 5 September 2013. In addition, personnel were planned for the medical pathologist and dentist, physical therapist, nurse, psychology and health officer majors in the hospital, which was also referred to as the appointment theory in September 2013. As part of the current human resources of our ministry, we will continue to plan expert physician and medical personnel to increase the capacity of health and manpower of Rabbitic Doctor Mustafa Pencilli State Hospital. I give thanks and respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0119par0127	Mr. Right, please, you have an additional request for an explanation.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0120par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Crimea Congo's hemorrhagic disease is contagious and infected by animals, a deadly disease. As in the country, it is a disease that has been seen more and more around the slap and around it and has caused the death of a human being in a large number of places -- about 30 percent. These people have been dying of this disease for about ten years. Although these have been expressed several times, there is still no cure. In this direction, people in the slap zone are also having a very serious hesitation in the summer and spring, almost afraid of going to the garden, to the vineyard, and whether or not this disease will be infected. It also causes psychological trauma. In this direction, at the point of the investigation of this disease that has been going on for 12 years and a conclusion, the people of Tokat expect the region's research center to be established, the labs to be created in this region, and the experts around the world to be brought here to create an international symposium, but so far no such study has been done. Of course, although there were a lot of various phrases about the vaccine, we still can't say that there was a huge distance at the point of the vaccine. Mr. Secretary, it is our wish that if a regional research center were to be created here, if a large symposium was to be gathered through these experts, could something be done here, as well as in the treatment and so forth?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0121par0132	Thank you, Mr. Right. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0122par0134	Mr. Right, thank you. Of course, you're saying that this disease is contagious, and there's no vaccine that's been developed against it, unfortunately, it doesn't exist in the world. In this sense, there are studies in the world and in us, but there are no calendars in the world for the discovery of a drug or a vaccine. So, what's important is that there's research going on around the world in this sense, and there's research going on in our country. Of course, I agree with your symposium idea, it can be done, we can plan it, but research has to be done in these infrastructure centers. After all, we want to get a drug or a vaccine, a product. So, the symposium part, of course, can be discussed in Tokat, with scientific dimensions, but I think it would be correct to do so at research centers. Of course, we'll re-evaluate the evaluations needed to move public psychology to the one-on-one, close, door-to-door, information, psychological support. After all, it's our people, and we'd never wish for any of our people to have a psychological trauma, let alone a disease, but how do we get them to go further, one-on-one, door-to-door, through the media, to inform the homes of what we need to know? We'll share that with you again.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0123par0137	Mr. Light, Mr. Tanal, and Mr. Halaman have one minute of questions. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0124par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it's late, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his answers. However, there are no specialists in some districts of Kütahya Province, some districts try to obtain specialist services from neighbouring districts. These counties aren't enough for themselves. I don't think the information you've been given is enough. It is correct to strengthen damaged buildings after two and a half years because of the Simav earthquake. I thank you for that. Despite our insistence during the previous Ministry, they tried to tear down the medium-damaged building, but for two and a half years, our Simav people have not received this service. Now that you've started this even though it's late, I thank you. I also think that your services will continue as to the construction of the new hospital. What's the outcome of the 600-bed hospital scheduled to take place in Kütahya headquarters? I think you in particular need to make a statement about this. At Kütahya headquarters, they've got the hospital on schedule, what's the latest?
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0125par0143	Thank you, Mr. Light. Let's ask Mr. Tanal and Mr. Halaman's questions briefly, Mr. Secretary, and then we'll... Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0126par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister didn't answer my question, my question was: Hadjilı neighborhood, which is in the District of Chile, Istanbul, did not want to be answered the following questions about the problems of the people. Question number one: Why is there no service at the dialysis centre in the district of Chile, Istanbul? Do you plan to assign services to solve the problems of our citizens who can't reach the dialysis centre? My second question: Since there is only one doctor on duty at a health clinic in Hajjilı neighborhood, this doctor cannot serve a health clinic for months while he is on legal maternity leave. Why are at least two doctors not assigned to the clinic for the removal of this victim? Mr. Secretary never came up with that...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0127par0151	Thank you. Most of the questions have gone unanswered, but we're keeping our lawmakers' rights to questions hidden in the system. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0128par0154	Mr. President, thank you, thank you, thank the Minister. Here's my question. Now you're saying we're going to build city hospitals without T.C. There's the district of Saimbeyli, 120km from our Adana. This Saimbeyli district doesn't have a hospital, and his courthouse is closed. Is there any way you can build one of these city hospitals for Saimbeyli, Minister? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0129par0157	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0130par0158	Yes, thank you. Of course, Mr. Light, there's nothing wrong with the number of attendings, but there's a problem with the lack of attendings.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0131par0160	It's missing, it's missing!
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0130par0161	So I'm asking people in this country, from time to time, where are they, where are these extras so that we can serve them immediately, but unfortunately, for an ideal health management, this country needs at least 20,000 specialists, at least 20,000 practitioners. Now, even though we're able to raise this entire staff in front of us, even though we've opened so many medical schools, even though we've expressed the problems with the education here, the question marks, there will be more than 2,500 general practitioners coming in next year. The number of experts will probably start coming in four or five years after that, and from these podiums... if I take the notes from my pocket to yours right now, all of the notes in my pocket are from our fellow lawmakers here... to our district, to our province, to our hospital, to our hospital, to our attending physicians... but how can we evaluate our greatest task here, to our physician, to our most efficient? Instead of making more sacrifices here than our physicians, more sacrifices, planning them, running their centers without setting up the seizure system in small places... because our Turkey's patient transfer problem is no longer as serious as our other problem. Our emergency ambulances, our emergency ambulance helicopters... on average half an hour after transport and transport, almost all of our patients are coming to hospitals that can be considered ideal. Therefore, we aim to make the center as strong as possible and provide the patient with ideal services. But in the end, don't mess up one place, and don't pay attention to the other, which probably won't be fair, and it won't be fair. Of course, I hope to inform you of the status of the 600-bed hospital. Meanwhile, we're reviewing the investments. I'll let you know what it looks like. Yeah, well, thank you for the other thing, too. Mr. Tanal, yours is probably among the questions I can't answer. But, I don't know what an extraordinary problem is with all of our dialysis patients, especially...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0132par0166	Yes, Hajilı District.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0130par0167	Hajilı District. You also have to ask there, but usually, all our dialysis patients are taken from their homes, go to the dialysis center, and then they're taken home again. But what's the exception here, I'll look into it and get back to you. Of course, it's legal leave, and it's also one of those medical problems that we're having with our medical deficit. Small spaces, you've assigned one family doctor, and instead, we're having occasional problems during the holidays. But our public health departments show a sensitivity to never causing trouble around here. But there are no problems throughout Turkey. I don't mean a sentence by this platform. But twenty-four hours and the shortage of physicians is expressed by these figures in Turkey -- and if we're going to admit it today, we're going to -- we're going to do this -- and now the doctor's going to give birth, he's going to take the weekend off, he's going to have a shift, and we're going to try to take it with the current staff. But are there any limping directions here? And these limping aspects of it...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0132par0169	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but I gave it to you on May 29, 2013, and it hasn't been registered yet, so it's still that citizen, who can't get health care, that's the problem, it's been five months.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0133par0170	Mr. Secretary, you have the last three minutes, and I've given you an extra 15 minutes, so if you'll please...
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0130par0171	Yes, now, finally, there is no non-T.C. understanding at any Department of Health institution in the Republic of Turkey. First, for once, we are proud and proud to be citizens of the Republic of Turkey and to serve the great Turkish nation. I'll take everyone here for granted. So I'd like to express that a polemic sentence in this sense does not suit this Parliament or this bench. Look, our ambulance plane today... in an ambulance plane from the Turkish Ministry of Health... we went to London to treat our national athlete in intensive care, where we took our patient and athlete from London, where we treated him. Today, in the remotest corner of the Republic of Turkey, we wave the moon-star flag, and we are honored and proud of it. I would also like to say that this pride is the pride of 75 million Turkish nations. Of course, the location of the city hospital has been confirmed. Let's plan an investment that will solve the health problems of the district and Saimbeyli. I thank and salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0134par0176	Thank you, Mr. Muezzinoglu. Mr. Sesame, you're in the system. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0135par0181	I'd like to say something to the Minister. On the first day of the festival, a citizen named Ismet Ater suffered a brain hemorrhage in İzmir. During the holiday season, a radiologist could not be found in Izmir (Izmir), where there were 11 hospitals. I visited him on Sunday. They took him into surgery on Monday, but due to a delay, he's struggling to survive a second explosion today, in intensive care. Minister, during the holiday season, the absence of a radiologist in the third-largest city of Turkey such as Izmir and the presence of a citizen during the holidays, the doctor's deficit in public institutions, and especially the staff deficit in public hospitals, request your special attention regarding our patient, and I'm putting it into your hands.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0134par0183	Thank you, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0136par0184	I don't think this setback, or this lack, is acceptable in a place like Izmir, so I don't necessarily see this lack of radiology in educational hospitals in university hospitals. It means I'll take care of our patient and I'll take care of it, and I'll thank you again.
tbmm-2013-10-22sit02spe0134par0185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question motions have been answered. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture, Forest and Village Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, where we are left behind in the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement Approved. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is Wednesday (October 23rd 2013) that we should discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
