tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who wants to speak about the problems of fishermen. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, please be quiet. We'll be able to hear Mr. Korkmaz better. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0002par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I salute the High Council. I have promised to share with you the problems of fishing, a matter that concerns the alimony of thousands of citizens, but concerns the table of all of us, and the government has kept off the agenda for years. I salute the High Council. In the world that sails quickly towards the food crisis, in our three-sided country surrounded by seas, we are now regretting to be the Nationalist Movement Party, which we need to think about every day, but with non-responsibility talks, we are truly bringing it to the House. Our fishermen, who complain that the government has not taken care of them in politics, are also complaining that they have no contact with the sector, which understands their problems under the Ministry. There's a lot more in the locals than in the non-responsibility crisis. As you know, the AKP, including the Bending Water Product Institute, has shut down and made water products institutions in our country a station. The government doesn't have fish and water products on the agenda. It means it's not a friendly approach to dealing with staff under animal health care that has nothing to do with the industry. Our fisherman tradesman wants to establish regional directorates of fisheries and water products where local water products engineers are employed. They also think that the employment of water products engineers in large boats, cooperatives and troops will bring great contributions to the industry. True, this arrangement will also allow thousands of water products engineers who are unemployed to find work. Due to the frequent weather opposition last year, the seven-and-a-half-eight-month hunting season has only lasted four months, but the instant supply of fish has kept prices low, while the rapid increase in fishing inputs has made our fishermen in debt to banks. Our fishermen, of course, will be happy to see our citizens eat fish at a low price, but given that they also provide homes, the support of the materials they use in hunting, and the government's ability to meet the difference. The reduction of tax rates in the entries, the recognition of 11% of VAT easyness provided for meat and white meat will also be the greatest support they will receive. Dear lawmakers, what we say, perhaps today, is something that will reflect in the middle-term to our fishermen in a very specific sense; but there are things that can be corrected tomorrow with the notifications and implementation of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. First of all, this notification must be prepared by a board of representatives of our fishermen's unity, or it is clear that it is not the right approach for people who have no interest in fishing to determine the fate of the industry. The ministry has imposed restrictions on the fishing fleet to ensure sustainable fishing and reduce the pressure of hunting, but the decision has been put into practice for small fishermen, since it does not include boats that can cover between 10 and 20 metres of 365 fishing vessels, 21 and 30 meters of 30 meters, and 5 fishing vessels above 31 meters. With studies involving universities, the breeding season and hunting season of fish should be more realistic. Another thing is that swordfish are forbidden to hunt with extension nets. These nets have been left in the hands of the fisherman and have been victimized. The damage must be paid by the Ministry. A reasonable explanation is that the hunt of about 800 tons of swordfish must be banned and released from outside imports. The notification brought its merit, not with extension nets, but with paraketa, but with reports from the University of Aegean, where that is not possible. Instead of hunting swordfish, which contributed $5 million to our country, it was imported, and therefore the result was that $10 million was given out. I've come to you to share the information we've received from the fishermen's troops with our great Council and to seek solutions together. I declare that we expect their needs from the government, that we will support them as the National Movement Party, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Mustafa Şinahal, who asked for a comment on the mines in Malatya. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise to you about the mines in Malatya, and I salute your grand delegation. We know that our province, particularly Battalgazi land and raised famous statesmen, also has subterranean wealth along with its subterranean resources, and, along with minerals and plus apricots, is a center of attraction at the point of growing our agricultural products. Also, in our districts of Hekimhan and Kuluncak, there are important iron reserves of Turkey, including chromium, thorium, fluorite, caststone, dolomite and spa water, while in our district of Puturge are the second largest profilite mine in the world, gold, asbestos, manganese beds. In our districts of Akçadağ, there is marble, and in our districts of Darende and Hekimhan, there is cement, and in the Yeşilyurt Bayhan area, gold and manganese mines in Doğanşehir and Arabgir districts. Our city of peace, Malatya, is the capital of mines, although known as the world apricot capital. In particular, new regulations are being made in the Mining Law for the operation of our existing mines and for the detection of new fields, with serious incentives to invest in these areas, and we see that our mines are very important to be removed and operated. Dear friends, when invested in strategic mining enterprises, which are strategically important in the fourth district of incentives, opportunities are available at higher levels. We know that Turkey's import of iron steel is a third-place product after importing energy and machine equipment. Once the iron reserves are removed, it will also have stopped the scrap iron and iron products our country has imported for years, especially when factories that will turn into pixels and iron and iron. Dear friends, I would like to say once again that our province, while closing Turkey's iron steel gap, has iron reserves to reduce our country's current deficit, and is an attraction for mine investors. The second major underground source in our province in particular is marble. The marbles found in our province are caused by being exported directly without being converted to an extreme product. And once we've converted these products into extreme products, we'll have eliminated the source damage in this area. Precious lawmakers, along with investments made by the private sector in our province, will be able to contribute substantially to the solution of the employment problem in our province as the feasibility study and ongoing investments are over. All these investments will also reveal a qualified employee and interpersonal deficit. In order to prevent these problems from happening in our province, we act by planning the production of our cities and district centers to meet the current needs of our technical and professional high schools. While taking measures to facilitate new ways to facilitate access to the railway and land road, investors investing in our province, our Mining Research Regional Directorate will organise a symposium on mines in the last week of April to promote and assist our investors in this area. Our main goal in this symposium is to encourage national and international companies to invest permanently in our province. We've submitted a motion to establish a parliamentary research commission with eighty-two of our friends to conduct a healthy examination of our mines in our province and the DAP area and lure new investors to our province and region. Our main goal in this motion is to turn our mineral reserves into an extreme product that will shut down Turkey's energy deficit, allowing investors to move in and operate here. Despite many investments in the region, such as education, health care, transport, dams, infrastructure and industry, over the past 30 years of terrorism, we have all seen that the terrorist organization has been working for years to sabotage all the developments that will come here and maintain the region's backwardness. With the blood running in the region stopping, there's no doubt that it will become an energy and employment centre that will become the engine of our province and the region's economy. With these feelings, I salute and salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, who wants to speak about the problems of Tripoli. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I have been promised to inform you at the point of the problems of Tripoli, and I salute the High Council. Tripoli is a city that has housed mankind since the earliest age of history, a city home to many civilizations. Tripoli is a city in the history of politics, a city that has raised important people in science, in art, in culture, in sports, in social life; a city that has given value to everywhere they go, where they go. In the province where they were brought to the province, where they were brought up by their first commander, Captain Sherafettin Bey, who was the first to enter Izmir, who was bound by a citizenship bond, who paid his taxes, who willingly served his country, who was a martyr and a veteran for the country, who was on the front line of those who met our Ataturk in the National Liberation War. The eyes and ears of the Tripolins, who migrated to find jobs, were in the land where they were born, making the team of the province of which they were born, the Libzonspor, the essential part of their life. Our important city, unfortunately, has begun to bleed in recent years. The most obvious indicator of this is the population that diminishes by the migration it gives each year. According to TİK figures, the population of the city was 975,137 in 2000, while the population was reduced to 757,350. So the capital city was built over 3,000 times over the limit of being a major city. The net migration rate given over the years is 17.78 per cent. Again, according to the latest data of the TÜİK, it is ranked sixth in the rankings of the provinces. Tripoli is ranked as the 15th in the development ranking according to city centers, but is ranked 38th in the overall state-wide development ranking. Unemployment is the biggest problem, and unemployment is 6.3. Two basic products, such as tea and nuts, do not meet the expectations of our producers, in the province of Tripoli, where there is no great industry, where trade is at a standstill, where over 150,000 of our trades are for execution, where tourism has not received what it deserves in recent years. The domestic animalism is becoming less and less. In addition, the SMEs and the organised industrial regions, in order to survive, expect to be renewed and replaced by the Instigative Law, and to take part in the 4th district of our province, and the fate of the Pineburnu shipyard, which is said to find work for at least 5,000 people, is curious about how to get status for the people of Tripoli during each election period. An important issue is air pollution, and it wonders where the gas is. In his speech at Bayraktar Tripoli, our Minister Erdogan said, "I will make Trabzon a center of attraction." He said, "If you want to earn money in another province, you must get your hands on him. He says, "If you want to make money, you must get your hands on him." He says, "If you want to make money in another province, you must get your hands on him." For years, however, Tripoli has been hoping to start the South Environment project, which is stuck in tight space and will meet its needs in short, medium and long term, and will contribute to the economy and exports and economics of the Samsun-Sarp provinces, and also to the construction of the projects of Erzincan-Güshan-Trubzon and Erzincan-Güzincan-Trebolu railway line. In addition, the government, who talks about the nation at every turn, is what the nation says. The government, unfortunately, is famous for its natural beauty, is building a cement factory in Tonya County, which awaits tourism, and is building a landfill in Araklı Turup, which has its natural beauty and does not listen to the voice of the opposing Arakites. However, as Tripoli, who has been waiting for more than 59 per cent of the AKP's power for 11 years in the general elections, has not received the attraction center, as well as the decision of the Turkish Football Federation, which he deserves in the 2010-2011 Super League Cup, is waiting patiently and decisively for its decision. I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Before we go on the agenda, I'll give the MPs a minute to enter the system according to the Civil Code 60. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Artvin is one of the most beautiful villages of our village in Ortaköy, central district, Artvin. In this village, recently, there is a deep unrest among our living citizens, which stems from this: Artvin Central Middleville is also seriously affected by the destruction and anxiety created by hydroelectric plants in the East Black Sea. In this village, where Artvin's finest grapes, the most beautiful fruits and vegetables have been grown, there is a serious initiative in the work of hydropower plants. If this work is done, if a hydropower plant is built in Artvin Central Centralköy, there will be a deep impact on those of our agricultural citizens, our vegetable and fruit farming people in that village. Therefore, the Ministry of Energy, which will conduct the HES study here, will review the work in Ortaköy and return from this wrong decision immediately. I am honored to repeat this from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0009par0069	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Aksinger...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0010par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. In Iraq, both businessmen and workers have had serious problems, especially in the last six months. In particular, businessmen entering from Habur Border Gate are not allowed to go to Baghdad, and our businessmen are able to come back from Erbul to Istanbul and fly to Baghdad by air. At the airport, workers are granted 30 days of visas and then arrested for illegal conduct in police checks. Since the visas for workers are not extended, they live in prison at the site this time. After seven months of working at a subcontractor firm in Iraq, Bajram Smoke became a treatment of only Turkish workers for lack of a residence permit. Our workers suffer in prisons under difficult circumstances. How many Turkish workers are currently lying in Abu Strange and Hille Prison, correctional prisons? Does the government have any knowledge, any interest in this matter? Will the Ministry have an initiative to rescue these workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0011par0076	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, U. T. Our citizen in his name has been released by the State's Attorney's Office. The lawmakers, who have not forgotten their doctorate, know what a disease ALS disease is. This patient is 70 years old and his relatives already know that the patient will die at any moment. I condemn the fact that the patient's relatives did such a thing because of the pain, and that the prosecutors should release the patient's next of kin as soon as possible. So to prevent further violence, sir, we applied green space here, we applied green code. We no longer believe the words, we want the real measures taken immediately.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0014par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister's warm-looking assessments of the state system, meaning eliminating Turkey's unitary and national state structure, have been released to the press. The National Movement Party, unfortunately, has been right once again. Ocalan, the murderer and head of the terrorist organization of 35,000 people, and the AKP and the Prime Minister aligned with PKK's remarks. The PKK's goals and the Prime Minister's desire for Turkey are unfortunately the same. This longing has existed since 1991, when he was mayor of Istanbul, when he wrote the Kurdish Report. Turkey's goal is clear. To achieve this goal, he tries every means, including negotiations with the PKK, to change our constitutional system, but it has to be known that Turkey has a nationalist Movement Party and Turkish nationalists who have risked everything for the state and nation beka, against the separatist and collaborators who have done everything to divide it.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0015par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Immir, I strongly condemn the attack on Turkish physicians at 9 September University. It really upsets the physicians to see that no one is punished as a system or as a law, especially as a parliament, even though we express to health workers that violence is increasing every time. So, to be more sensitive at this point, I invite everyone on duty. This is not the first time, nor will this be the last; it is as clear as day that we need to review the system. And I invite the government to be sensitive about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, forced task changes have come to the attention of the forestkeepers who have been serving in our country for years. Despite the need of many counties, I thank you, I have invited the government to cease the force of the forestkeepers who have served for years and years to be forced to change places, quickly and to resolve this problem.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0016par0098	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to warn the government authorities to report. In 1997, those who retire by buying steps from BUG-KUR are unable to benefit from the increase in retirement. They expect a solution on this issue from the government authorities. In addition, our pensioners who retire and work in a job and contribute social security are expecting interest-free loans from public banks -- the government. I'm looking for a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0019par0106	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are two motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As it is known, Artvin is a province that has sacrificed the Valley of Chorus to contribute to our country's need for energy. Living areas have been forced to move up and down. And the opening of these fields will lead to the leaving of the province by going to the mines. In this important geography, the mining company has concerns that it will harm nature and the inhabitants of Artvin. The Cerattepe forest area is limited to Hatila National Park. Thus, it is likely that Hatila National Park will suffer from mining work. Therefore, I propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, TBM Council, and 105th Articles, in order to investigate and determine the measures needed to be taken to resolve the problems. With all due respect. The location of Cerattepe, located within the central district of Artvin, and just above the city, and including the adjacent mountain of Genya, has also been brought to the attention in recent years by the search for gold and copper. As it is known, Artvin is a province that has sacrificed the Valley of Chorus to contribute to our country's need for energy. Living areas have been forced to move up and down. And the opening of these fields will lead to the leaving of the province by going to the mines. In this important geography, the mining company has concerns that it will harm nature and the inhabitants of Artvin. The Cerattepe forest area is limited to Hatila National Park. Thus, it is likely that Hatila National Park will suffer from mining work. Artvinians with experience in mining from Murgul do not ask for the sake of human health and nature of the operation of copper and gold mines in Cerattepe. The transport and transport routes planned to be made in the field will destroy the area very much because the land is tilted, and will create video pollution. The region, which has its own animal species, also has one of two bird migration routes in Turkey. It is clear that the opening of the mine will destroy hundreds of species of plants and animals, and that they will finish their habitats, and that the old forests, the most important protector of the landslide, will be destroyed, and that the waters of the entire water basins will be unusable. On 24 June 2010, the new Mining Law was introduced on 6 November 2010 by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz in March 2011, when the implementation regulation of the area 1,3343 was first registered on the tender route across the country. He said the licenses would be issued for ten years, which could be extended in five or ten years. Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. (The constitution md. 56) Real or legal persons who have contaminated the environment or who have sometimes been damaged or are aware of their activities may ask the administrative authorities to stop these activities. In Artvin and their districts, they will also be tendered; in the city where they have a field; in which one of them ends with support from all the Artvins, Cerattepe (250 hectares), and in which the city's upper neighborhoods, including Mount Genya and the Cafkasor Tourism Center (4,156.25 hectares), have created a much larger area of anxiety and anxiety. As a result of the operation of Cerattepe and other fields, nature is at risk of soil and agriculture, toxic products, heavy metal-burdened water supply and a landslide threatening downtown. For these reasons, the Artvinians have stated that it is not a futile struggle to claim their environment, nature, underground and aboveground wealth, but that they must eventually win this challenge. As a people who proved it in 2008, we have full faith that they will succeed in winning this fight once again. We believe that the tender to be announced regarding the vital Ceratepe and its second license area should be cancelled immediately, so that the TBMM research commission should be set up to investigate all aspects of the problem. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code for the identification and resolution of foreign policy issues. Turkey is one of the major countries of the Middle East because of both Balkan-European and historical and geographical relations. Again, the peoples are a Mediterranean country because they are directly on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. On the other hand, playing a bridge linking Asia and the European continent is the country of Eurasia because of its relations with the republics in the Caucasus. Given all these realities, the geography of Turkey is both geostrategic and geopolitical. Globalization has put a lot of things in the world into a continuous and rapid process of change. With this process, there is a period in which national states will enter the period of overcoming, where the borders between sovereign states will be eliminated, where regional integrations will increase and become important. All these developments will directly affect foreign policy. Foreign policy must also be determined in the light of these facts. In the country, in the region and in the world, it is imperative that new policies and approaches of all kinds of policies and approaches that will damage the peace of the country, the region and the world, to establish global peace, democracy, human rights, rule of law, justice and stability, the unity and brotherhood of the peoples. The fulfilment of international contracts for the development of democratic rights and freedoms, the removal of anti-contract practices, and Turkey's continued pressure on foreign policy. Equal relations with international and regional organisations such as the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the OSCE must be developed on the basis of co-operation and solidarity. Without any influence other than these institutions, it should be carried out under the protection of world peace, international cooperation and international solidarity principles for its purposes. The EU is expanding further into an economic, political, cultural and social union as a result of regional integration in the world. Speeding up Turkey's accession to the EU should speed up the negotiations process to conclude full membership in the EU. Work must be done to create democratic Europe of integrated peoples, on the basis of equal relations against the European capital. The Kurdish problem, the Cyprus issue, the Armenian problem, also leads to developments against Turkey as a fundamental problem in foreign policy. The problem must be developed without wasting time, allowing our country to gain a strong position in international relations. The democratic integration of the Middle East at a regional level has become a basic need for world developments. At the same time, an effort for democratic integration of the Middle East should be made, while a foreign policy that will protect and improve the regional interests of Middle Eastern peoples should be developed. It is one of the main issues in which relations with Syria continue to grow and the United States develop relations with this country through Turkey. The solution to the Kurdish and Palestinian problem, which is the main problem of the Middle East, should be based on being in constant dialogue with countries concerned. The solution to problems requires constructive and friendly contributions to the regional and international plane. It is important that every positive attempt to prevent wars that threaten humanity and nature, to be supported by weapons, to redefine energy and security policies, to defend the principle of global justice against the deepening of inequality, and to support all attempts to achieve global equality and justice. For this purpose, it would be helpful to set up a parliamentary research commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, is the head of the delegations; 1. Serbia's National Assembly President Nebojsa Stefanovic, Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament Speaker Denis Becirevic, Slovenian National Assembly Speaker Janko Veber, Romanian House Speaker Valeriu Stefan Zgonea and Luxembourg Representative Assembly Speaker Laurent Moser are making official visits to countries named after them to address the official invitations of the State Assembly of Turkey's Foreign Relations, dated 28/03/1990, and 3620. 2. European Parliament President Martin Schulz and Macedonian Parliament Speaker Trajko Veljanoski attend the event, EUREKA XVIII, respectively. Belgium and Southeast European countries X are to attend the Inter- Parliamentary Conference. The official visit to Macedonia to participate in the Assembly Presidents' Conference is presented to the General Assembly under the 9th amendment of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Turkish Parliament, dated 28/03/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A seminar by the European Parliament on "Open Parliaments: Transparency of Parliament" will be held on 25-26 April 2013 in Skopje, Macedonia. The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A formal visit to the French city of Marseilles is presented under the Constitution of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 28/3/1990 and 3620 of Turkey's Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, in order to respond to the invitation of Martin Schulz, the President of the European Parliament for the Mediterranean and to attend the 1st Summit for the Mediterranean Parliament. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, we now move on to the part of the agenda, which is entitled to take part in the Special Agenda. We are starting talks on the opening of a gene question on Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu (11/26) for the alleged agreement that İzmir MP Aytun Çıray and 24 MPs used state opportunities to benefit some companies in the field of energy, that would threaten national security, that would cause division of Iraq and our country. Government? Here. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been published and read in the 82nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 26/3/2013. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: İstanbul MP Osman Taney Örkurk is the owner of the motion. On behalf of the groups: Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh on behalf of the People's Party's Party of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Chair Aytun Çıray on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Siirt MP Afif Demirkıran on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. On behalf of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız will speak.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0020par0192	Mr. President, sir, our proposal for the gene is about Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, but I see Mr. Davutoglu doesn't sit during the government.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0021par0193	No, the Constitution says the Prime Minister or a minister.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0020par0194	The issue is energy, so the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources is sitting down. A statement can be made, but if our generic text is read carefully, it will be seen that the problem is not only limited to energy, the issue is not limited to national security policy, the Iraqi policy, Turkey has a general framework for Iraqi relations, foreign policy. I was wondering if Mr. Foreign Minister will come later or if Mr. Energy Minister will continue. I'd like to express that this attitude -- if the Minister of Energy is going to sit down -- we don't think it's right.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0022par0195	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, as the government has declared, there are no mandatory provisions in our Civil Code, as you know. The first statement now belongs to Istanbul MP Osman Taney Külturk, who has the motion. Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0023par0199	Mr. President, dear friends, first I want to make one thing clear: Mr. Prime Minister, at his party's group meeting last Tuesday, the Republican People's Party has actually dealt with this motion in an incorrect energy agreement, which should have been given about the Minister of Energy. It's not a matter of ridicule; it's a matter of knowing the functioning of the state, the current laws, what the ministry is behind, and what matters are behind. We regret to inform you that the head of a government that has ruled the country for 11 years did not know that. International agreements always have to be under the control of the State Department. There are many laws about this, and there are laws about it, but the Law number 1173 comes in the first place. And the reason we're giving this to Mr. Energy Minister, not to the Secretary of State, is because it's basically Turkey's rule of Iraq in a completely wrong way. Mr. Energy Minister is a supplier minister, Mr. Energy Minister is an enforcer minister. Where it finds oil, if the State Department doesn't mind, you can do it. If it does, it does it, and we don't blame it on it. We hold this authority and the Secretary of State responsible for giving it to him. Now, friends, after the March 1st paper was rejected in 2003, Turkey adopted an authority called the Iraqi Special Representativeship to carry out its relations with Iraq in order. I was the Berlin ambassador at the time. In my transformation from Berlin, I came to this office, and in all the work for Iraq, I was at the top. It was a mission appointed by the Council of Ministers. Then, after me, two more friends continued. Now, for some reason, the government removed it. But from that time on, Turkey's Iraqi policy was very clear. Turkey's first priority in Iraq's policy was the protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, the protection of Iraq's political union and national sovereignty. Iraq was a country in the formation of a new country, and they were in a dispute here, whether we should form a federation or a unitary state. We, as a third country, did not interfere with this conflict, as we did with Syria today, but we ourselves see that the unitary state works better in this region, and if you think about taking advantage of our experience, prefer the unitary state. Now, this is a federal state, there are federal states, but oil is the subject of the Central Government. If you get up and do Northern Iraq oils, Kerkuk oils, Egyptian oils, without the Central Government's approval, or the Central Government's approval, you'll be at a point where you'll be able to cause Iraq's territorial integrity to fall apart in the future. We don't talk to criticize, we don't talk to disturb. We are the children of this country, sharing our experiences with you. Look, I'll tell you a short story: I was a soldier, and I was very young at one time -- I was flying from Istanbul to Ankara, and there were propellerd planes at that time, and we got caught in a great storm at night on the way to Ankara Airport, and the plane went off, and a fat little guy was sitting next to me, and he was in a big hurry, and he hit himself there, and he grabbed himself there, and he grabbed himself, and he grabbed my arm. I turned to the man, and I said: "Don't worry, nothing will happen." The man turned to me and said: "How do you know, are you a pilot?" I said: "No, I'm not a pilot, but I fly very often." Are you aware of the terrible danger we are in right now? Ankara Airport is an airport like a dish, and when you come in with that inverted wind, we're like the plane that hit a tail in 1957, and then we're like the plane that crashed, so we're going to go into a decelerator, and we're going to go down. Now that our hope of survival is 30 percent, it's dawn for me. Now, we are the pilots of this foreign policy issue. We want to share piloting information with you, we want to say you're in danger, you're going bad. We mean you're going bad. But you're not listening, you're saying it's okay. Why won't anything happen? I often fly. I don't often fly, I need to use it. We've done this mission for nearly 40 years, we've done it, we want to share what we know, what we see. And you have friends who know that, and they don't make a sound, but they know that danger, pert gear, we can line up. Now, dear friends, the territorial integrity of Iraq is extremely important to Turkey. Iraq is a country on its own. Iraq has a Kurdish government, a Shiite administration, a Sunni administration. As long as these governments remain in the integrity of Iraq, Iraq can remain a balance against Iran in this region. If Iraq splits, then there's no one left but us who can balance the balance against Iran. Turkey never wants, never wants, never wants to be a balance factor against Iran or any other country. We don't have to be balance or counterweights, we have to be a stable country. Mr. Secretary of State, if he were here, I'm sure he would have said, "You can't understand our foreign policy vision, you can't see, you can't even imagine." Turkish foreign policy has changed a lot in the last ten years. It's not true. Turkish foreign policy hasn't changed in the last ten years. For the last four years, it's changed for three and a half years. See, the first Foreign Minister of Justice and Development Party, Mr. Yasar Yakış, second Secretary of Foreign Affairs Mr. Abdullah Gul, third Secretary of Foreign Affairs Mr. Ali Babacan; at the time of all, Turkey was implementing its sober, weightful, reliable, old strong and unifying, stable policy in this region. After Mr. Davutoglu became Minister, perhaps he warmed himself up for about six months, after he was warmed up in his place, the pot exploded, as you put it, and we entered and left from all sides. We started with zero problems, we've come to this point. Now, this agreement, again, was made in a way that I don't understand how the State Department approved it, and the Iraqi Central Government is complaining about it, even the United States of America is complaining about it. Can that happen, guys? Without the approval of a country's central government, making a deal with federal agencies is not in accordance with the Iraqi Constitution. Look, Mr. Energy Minister wishes you'd given him this motion for a gene. He says, "Mr. Prime Minister." Why should we give it to the Minister of Energy? Isn't the Minister of Energy victimized enough for these practices? Mr. Energy Minister, you can't land in Iraq on the plane. He's been turned down on what they say. Who's responsible for this? I think he's the Secretary of State. Without the necessary preparation, without the necessary applications, without the approval of the Central Government, would an entire Minister of the Republic of Turkey be sent there without approval? So, we gave this motion the right way. How many motions do we have? We don't like it very much, let's just say, three motions in a year, three questions, but we need it, maybe four, maybe five. I'm asking you: look, the party that won the highest vote in the 1954 election was the Democratic Party, which came with 53 percent of the vote, but in 1955, the Democratic Party's own MPs, at the Democratic Party group meeting, drew the Democratic Party's President to the stand and resigned one by one, starting with ministers. You guys, maybe you won't get me to quit, maybe you won't, but the problem is, what are you guys doing, where are we going? Look where we've come from. There's already a lot of talk going on for Syria, there's already people applying to the European Court of Human Rights, there's people applying to the International Criminal Court. Against whom? Against Turkey. Is Turkey a worthy country? Now, you're taking off, you're buying an oil asset by contract from a unit that doesn't own that oil. Why should Turkey bow down in front of them when they appeal to the courts, when they go to the international courts? If there are only operational mistakes that can happen and those mistakes have caused death, we apologize. We are grateful that you have given us this pride. Then who are you going to apologize to when all this petroleum bullying starts, when the lawsuits start? Once again, I'd like you to pay close attention to these matters. You, all of us, are people who work for this country. One does politics for service, friends, and so do you, I'm sure. Ask him, please, what is going on in that ministry? My respects to all of you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0024par0220	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk. Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0025par0224	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment by the Republican People's Party to explain the views of the National Movement Party's motion on the motion, on the basis of the discussion of the motion for the geneorisation proposed on Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a very sensitive and historical period of both domestic and foreign policy. The outside world around us is being reshaped. At this point, significant developments are taking place in the future of our country and in matters that are very closely concerned about its future. If we can direct and govern these developments in the interests of our country with our own national ability and ability, well, good for us. At this stage, we, the Nationalist Movement Party, are in deep doubt as to whether the AKP government has managed and directed this historic process in the best and most efficient way. We see and know that there are grave mistakes made in foreign policy. That's what I've been referring to in my previous conversations under this great roof. Nothing's changed since my last conversation. We've hit a deep impasse in Syria, as far as Iraq is concerned, our relations with Iran are at risk, there's no significant improvement in relations with the European Union, Greece's island and reefs in the Aegean continue to take it into its own borders, and our AKP government is watching. Our relations with the Turkish world, family and relatives are deeply neglected. In energy wars, we don't know what our situation is because of a major blackout. At this point, I must stress that another major problem is that we are not informed enough by the AKP's Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on important and sensitive issues related to our foreign policy and foreign policy. Parliamentary control, which is essential to democracy, is ignored. This leads us to covert negotiations behind closed doors. It strengthens the faith. Mr. Secretary of State, in his own words, we're having nine births here as he embroiders and embroiders our foreign policy. We want to trust Mr. Davutoglu and his team for the sake of Turkey, we want to trust and believe to the end, but it just doesn't happen. The Minister's sympathetic personality is not enough for us. His character profile is no longer reassuring. And we can't swallow the policies he's been following. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, speaking of which, I can't help but mention that last week's famous Israeli apology was presented as a foreign policy victory by Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Davutoglu. The following developments and specific statements published by the Israeli Prime Minister on social media indicate that behind Israel's apology, our Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs, not those uncertain conversations with Israelis, who have been reflected in the press from time to time, but that Israel has its own interests entirely. Israel did not apologize for the murder of nine of our citizens, but according to Prime Minister Netanyahu. According to the statement of Prime Minister Netanyahu, he apologized for his recent concern for dangerous developments in Syria or made that apology with more accurate Turkish language. I also made it clear in my press release of March 25, 2013. In fact, it's not an apology, it's an alibi, and it's not legal at all. In fact, lawmakers, I'd like to stress to you that at this point, this development was caused by Syria and/or Iran, as well as, rather, by energy. Israel understood that it was the most rational and costly way to transfer enormous natural gas reserves, allegedly a trillion cubic metres [1 trillion cubic m] off the coast of Gaza and the Mediterranean, to Europe via the pipeline, and it began to see the waste of money every passing day as great days. At this point, the pressure of Israel's giant energy company Delek ▪ on Israel's government is the main factor that leads Netanyahu to explain that apology. When the reasons for Israel's so-called apology were so clear, it was funny how the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs appeared, and how we put it on the line, how our foreign policy was successful. As if that wasn't enough, Israel apologized, and now it's the opposition. What about your approach? With all due respect, that attitude is an example of rawness and hammock. The MHP was quiet. It's clear you don't like our statement that we did right after the incident and explained in detail all the reasons for the error of the incident. And the reason was, they all made the truth clear. In light of all this, why would the MHP apologize to you or to the Turkish people? It's hard to understand this mentality and the mindset. In fact, the AKP government and the State Department owe this nation an apology in the case of the Blue Marmara. Why? Let me explain here. Just as a magician brings out a rabbit or a flower or an object from the inside of a top hat and enthralls the audience, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, with every negativity, with great skill, remove objects that would please the public. Yes, it is true and the undisputed fact that Israel is responsible for the incident of the Blue Marmara. Well, haven't there been mistakes on the other side? Who's responsible for all this? Isn't it the AKP government that didn't see the slightest harm in sending those ships to Gaza, to the death line at that time? At the time, our UN Permanent Representative, New York, our US Ambassador Washington, and our Israeli Ambassador Tel Aviv, begged for their telegrams to stop the ships from leaving, but the AKP's government's flower, the zero-problem Foreign Minister, and the Prime Minister who understood the calamitous process of that period, did not heed these warnings. Until yesterday, he had been Turkey's ambassador to Tel Aviv for almost five years, who had spent an important part of his career in the ministry as the Middle East, responsible for Israeli-Palestinian relations, and the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs did not heed or heed these warnings, nor did anyone listen to him. For all who knew Israel had to consider such a outcome, even if it were a small possibility. Master Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, didn't your Secretary of State warn you at that time? If he did, why didn't you heed his warnings? If he didn't warn you, why is he still in that position? After all, what happened happened and nine of our citizens were murdered, relationships were cut off. If Israel apologises, the AKP government must apologize to the Turkish people. The real apology debt is actually hanging on the shoulders of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. You, on the one hand, will cause a massacre with a foreign policy error, and on the other hand, you will focus this mistake on Israel's apology in order to hide it from the public, feeding the public with information pollution like this for three years, bringing attention to the subject of apology and presenting it as a triumph of a degree. Well, it's not exactly magic and juggling, but what is it? Let not all these games be thought to have escaped the Turkish nation's sight and attention, and let not the Necip Turkish nation be made a fool of. Minister of Foreign Affairs Davutoglu has taken what we wanted, all our demands have been met. He has used his statements. Where is it? What did you get? Is the Gaza blockade off? Is he gonna get up? What about Turkey's lawsuits as a state in our prime minister's statement and the compensation cases filed by the victims themselves? Is the requirement for Israel's request of decentralisation the most important condition of the compensation agreement provided with the phone call, ▪non- liability? Is that why Minister of Justice Livni called you in such a hurry? In other words, will all Israel's politicians, who ordered the operation on Blue Marmara, who planned and conducted the operation and personally executed the operation of Israeli military officials and soldiers and murderers who shot our citizens professionally? Is it an agreement that both the state and the families of the victims of the Blue Marmara will give up their legal rights to Israel and the Israelis who carried out the operation in exchange for compensation for the victims' families? More importantly, will these waivers be made before or after the compensations are paid? Do any of you know that? I don't think so. All of this is what Mr. Secretary of State wanted, all of our demands have been met. How well does that fit? Is Mr. Secretary of State doing his own magic by trying to make the virtual facts come true? Will the people of St. Turk believe that now? According to backstage accounts, Israel was concerned about paying $100,000 in compensation to each family of martyrs. It's not even a possibility that it's true, but if we think it's true for a moment, it's despicable to even think about how much can be compared to the life of our martyr. ▪ Wouldn't that be more demeaning than the lower seat? How will you determine how much a martyr's life is worth? Is Mr. Arinc, who is now authorized to decide that? Dear lawmakers, I hereby convey to all citizens who lost their lives in the Israeli attack on the Blue Marmara ship three years ago, my wish for mercy from God once again, immediate healing for the wounded, and patience and patience for their relatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the High Council, at this point, I'd like to get to the main issue, which is based on the adoption of the motion for the geneorization. We, the National Movement Party, are not opposed to signing agreements in the field of energy with Iraq's northern regional administration, provided the territorial integrity of Iraq is protected, but we cannot accept that these agreements or agreements are confidential. In a sense, we think it would be useful for our country to understand the text of the agreements as well as our friends and enemies out there. Making deals with the northern regional administration regarding the huge hydrocarbon resources in northern Iraq, Turkey's backyard, will anger some, some not, others will please others; the confidentiality of agreements will be removed so that we can know them as well. The world energy company, which is close to 50, from 22 countries, will run around the region with an investment of over 15 billion dollars in natural gas and oil resources north of Iraq, and Turkey will watch these running horses. Is it possible to accept such a fact? At our doorstep, we have every right to use any economic, geographical, geopolitical, geological opportunity and opportunity. It is important to share in raw oil and gas sources in the north of Iraq, to transfer these resources through business, pipelines to Turkey, to have part of these resources used for needs and especially a centre for sale to the West. The opening of these hydrocarbon sources through Turkey, the fact that Turkey is involved at every stage from production to sale, access to cheap energy sources and a large share in trade, all of which, of course, is in our country's best interest. With energy sources in the northern and especially the province of Ninova in the region of Mosul and Anbar together, 3 million barrels of oil will be brought to our country a day. Today, considering that our country's daily oil consumption is 650,000 barrels, we're talking about 4 to 5 times what we need. Again, 30 billion cubic metres of natural gas can come from the same region to Turkey annually. The country's annual need for natural gas today is thought to be 50 billion cubic metres, which is more than half of what we need. In addition to the same project, natural gas will flow to Turkey at a total of 40 billion cubic metres, with 10 billion cubic metres coming from here. If, for example, the price of the gas we get from our north neighbor is $100, then the price of the gas we're going to get from here is 40 to 45 dollars -- in terms of terms of terms -- is going to be 40 to 45 dollars. The painting is great, the projects are big and impressive, and there's no way we can resist. However, our red lines are the current political boundaries of our country and the territorial integrity of Iraq. If Iraq's territorial integrity fails, Turkey must not allow a state outside Iraq to be built in the region using the rights due to agreements. And these big energy projects I'm talking about, they certainly shouldn't cause such a negative scenario. It is important that Turkish private companies take the widest part in the projects. The dissolution and division of these vast resources by the government can't be moral, as emphasised by the generic motion. In a small-scale study of the Powertrans company, mentioned in the motion, we discovered that the company was founded in Singapore, and that its large share belonged to the Çukuk Group. The Chaluk Group's proximity to the Prime Minister is a common and well-known subject in our press. Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Energy, I would like to remind you that such illegitimate attitudes are morally lacking. It is your primary moral duty to distribute socioeconomic opportunities and opportunities equally to our citizens. We, the National Movement Party, have always acted on the same basis when we voted against two motions against Mr. Davutoglu. And this time we're gonna do it for the same reason. Because we don't find it right to identify Turkish foreign policy with Mr. Davutoglu himself. Mistakes here, as a whole, belong to all of the political power that says it understands the era of mastery. On the other hand, we don't want Mr. Davutoglu, who we respect for his academic personality to be the second minister in the history of the Republic of Turkey, who still sees his mistakes and sees them and is expected to leave them alone so as not to cause further wrongdoing. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, my final word to the Prime Minister. Obama misses the sound of his voice! Do you know that the stone wall, the chain slave, the blind window... misses the voice of tens of thousands of mothers of martyrs, the limbs that have lost thousands of veterans? You long for the voice of your masters, and we long for the voice of our martyrs. As I end my words at this point, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0026par0246	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0027par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party on the matter of Republican People's Party's Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers have brought the need for the national markets of the world's capitalism to the historical stage of the governance of nation states. In particular, the administrative and political structure of empires failed to carry economic and technological developments, and nation states entered the world's political history as an important actor. The nation's state system, the facility of national markets, the facility of political and administrative structure, is formed with the emergence of a central structure. However, having a share of technology in the production relations that correspond to this has begun to corrode the understanding of the nation's state, when national capital groups began to transform into international organisations. A serious transformation here has imposed itself, and this transformation, which is beginning to corrode the nation's state structure, is actually still pushing itself today. Following this imposition, approaches involving the former political structure, administrative structure and sociological engineering, which belonged to the solid nation state structure, are becoming increasingly corroded. In view of the national state structure of the Republic of Turkey, economic, ethnic and religious wealth in Turkey in particular, and also strategically the geographical position of the country has brought an impact on these processes. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey, in 1923, called one of the rings in the hegemonic chain of states a solid nation. This period has been a period of rapid growth, especially in nation states around the world. It is necessary to present here a period after World War I, where the empires have been falling apart. Turkey has been involved in this new interstate system, especially in a political plane in a globally non-verbal state, which has just ended the age of national struggle and, in a hegemonic sense, is facing a political plane. In the process, the Republic of Turkey has also faced the pains of being late for the Western-born nation state structure. Both the vast gap between the economic and political development of the world's central governments and the Republic of Turkey, as well as the country's own unique sociological and legal base, which has increased the pain we've been talking about. In order to establish laws of their own laws, for example, the rules of employment law and the penal code were set, and the country did not shape the process with its own dynamics. Dear MPs, especially after the end of World War II, after seeing a disaster like Hitler's history, there have been three major military coups, military interventions in our country, unfortunately, over a period of twenty years, as more demands of democracy across the world shape the internal and foreign policies of states. Movements that expand civil spaces around the world, such as civil society, freedoms, cultural identity, the resistance of the dispossessed property, have come to the attention of Turkey's more civil and military bureaucracy behind the strict understanding of the nation's state. These processes, shaped by solid nationalism and capitalist modernity, were, in fact, needed to reinvent the 1980 military coup in terms of the country's integration of the interstate system, which has caused congestion somewhere. We all know that 80 military coups in all areas of society, in all areas, are conscious, political, economic, cultural, social, and in all areas, their efforts to destroy gains, but the only area where 80 military coups are not involved or extended is the economic decisions of the economic world, the economic field. After the coup, the late Ozal, architect of the January 24, 80 decisions, was also a reflection of an effort to integrate Turkey into the interstate system. After this period, the border between foreign policy and domestic policy quickly evaporated, the traces of holistic policy made it feel, (also developed the concepts of the state, the half state, and the surrounding state. Later, global hegemonic forces, regional hegemonic forces, and their local dynamics appeared on the stage of history in a conjunctural conjuncturing world political history. It's especially possible to say that tactics, strategies, and approaches in foreign policy have changed with the formations of this new equation. The effort of previously sacred border and customs structures to quickly enter the service of an international capital with commercial concerns has begun to guide the foreign policy of the countries. After this general historical and global perspective, we'd like to take a look at AKP power and foreign policy during the Davutoglu period. Dear lawmakers, as we know, the AKP's government has come to work, its power, especially in the wake of 9/11 attacks. After 9/11 attacks, global hegemonic forces have transformed their own colonial policies, their own interests about war, their policies that plague the people, into a strategic move under the guise of terrorism. With this new move following the 9/11 attacks, the foreign policy of the countries was shaped into three positions we call "soft power" and "hard power" and "smart power." We need to state here that the soft power is an attempt to achieve in favor, which is not based on war and violence, in more diplomatic ways. The policies we refer to as "Hard power" should be expressed as policies that seek to achieve results in more military intervention or with the effects of violence. We need to state that the policies we call "Smart power" are a policy process in which both policies are merged and sometimes the armed element is active and at times the soft diplomatic element is in operation. In particular, for global hegemonic forces at a time when such foreign policy was formed, Turkey was established as a medium-sized medium-sized medium-sized state, which should be associated with the geographical position it has found in the reconstruction of colonialism. Here, when we look at AKP's foreign policies, we can determine the process of Arab Spring and the reflection of this Arab Spring into Syria as a breaking point. I think it's safe to describe AKP's foreign policy in what we call a civil war in the Arab Spring and Syria, more like a diplomatic power, trying to strengthen its regional position with diplomatic relations, trying to find a strong intermediary position in the existing regional problems. Of course, we need to determine that the main goal here is the interest of the state and the bulging of some commercial balance sheets. However, after its reflections in the Arab Spring and Syria, I think it's safe to say that this diplomatic foreign policy, called soft power, is rapidly moving into an orbit that shows war and violence if necessary, which we call the military presence. In particular, approaches that refer to some Neoosman policies that would refer to the past period in foreign policy with the Arab Spring, as well as to the historical period in the history of the past, especially with the public movements in Egypt, because while this policy was being shaped, historical realities and dominant cultural characteristics of the region were not considered, as I said, a notion of the past was created in the form of a foreign policy that could not be realized. After the reflection of the Arab Spring in 2011, Syria's policy in particular, to make a comparison, has changed radically, such as turning on and off the power switch. A dictatorial regime described as Brother Assad was then put into the orbit of foreign policy in the air of cheap heroism that could enter Damascus in three hours. Of course, we have to say that the consequences of these tides, in terms of our country's foreign policy, are extremely severe. In this period, especially when a hundred years of process is being formed, we need to stress that the AK PARTY -- the AK PARTY -- the AKP -- is more likely to serve the interests of these runts of state. Of course, it may be possible to get results with the policies of the military, which show the position of war, if necessary, of course, but you have to consider two key factors when you put those policies into action. First, the position you're in is in the position of global power. Secondly, even if the result is taken, it is the moral and moral dimension of the pain, death, and tears that you bring to the brothers in Middle Eastern geography. Again, we want to emphasize from here that both at the global power level and at the level of destruction it will bring to the Middle East. Today, especially when we look at the Middle East, we see a geography that turns into a pool of blood. In Syria, we face a drama where hundreds of citizens lose their lives almost every day. In Iraq, we face an equation that wants to be thrown into chaos over the disintegration of Iraq. In Iran, we need to stress that a chaotic process lies ahead of us, awaiting the order of global hegemonic intervention. In the Middle East and North Africa, we also need to state that the stones still don't fit in all the processes that have been formed so far. In such a pool of blood, turned into a pool of blood, we need to stress that military intervention, foreign policies that show the position of war will bring nothing but blood, tears, and pain. In such a geography, we need to state that the policies that take peace policies based on the brotherhood of the peoples on the axis of their foreign policy, highlighting diplomatic efforts are the most rational, moral, moral, and human approach. In particular, there is no need to stress that such an approach is a potential that can produce a new model in all countries and states that have turned into a pool of blood in the Middle East. Of course, while running these policies in the Middle East, it is still a big emergency for the country to address the problems it has experienced in itself. I would like to reiterate from the republic's establishment, particularly the Kurdish issue, our view that a domestic policy that meets the demands of rights and freedom for all peoples who have had problems with democratisation so far will shape this peaceful foreign policy. Of course, I've tried to draw your attention to the policies that the Foreign Minister has implemented so far, especially Neosmanism, but I'd like to stress here that some of the findings that Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs has recently made include some of the real findings that correspond to the truths we've been talking about. In particular, Mr. Davutoglu's assessment of the fact that the accountability with nationalism has now imposed itself is very important to us, and from a historical and dialectic point of view, a number of important steps to address the problems we have experienced may be the beginning of a number of important policies. I would like to point out that Mr. Davutoglu stated in some of his speeches: First, we need to make a basic determination. Nationalism, the 19th century ideology, brought together structures divided by ferodality in Europe and gave birth to national states, and we created temporary and artificial contrasts and identities by dispersing ancient organic structures. It's time for all of us to deal with this separatist culture. Again, there are two ways in which Mr. Davutoglu's recent speech: either with a new sense of politics and order, we will first remove all these barriers in our minds, then in our hearts, then in the verbiat, and then we will all walk together towards larger scales, with Turkish, Kurdish, Albanian, Bosniak, with his Bosniak, with his Arab people, or they will try to tear us apart into little pieces. The future is not built by Sykes-Picot maps, then by colonial methods, and by nationalist ideologies that appear on artificially drawn maps, each accusing each other of the other. We're going to break down that mold Sykes-Picot drew on us. We want to point out that the detection of the foreign policy inside and outside that we're talking about has significant implications at the point of putting it into its original orbit, into the orbit of peace. Dear MPs, especially after Mr. Davutoglu's findings, we would like to remind him of these new findings with Neoosmanism policies: history does not go backwards. If you try to adapt some imperial ideas from history to today, you will not be able to succeed here. Look, there's been a political bankruptcy on the road to Syria with these big dreams, which has brought Turkey's claim to be a superpower model in the Great Middle East to a political bankruptcy that co-operates with gangs. We don't think it's appropriate for governments to cooperate with gangs, support gangs. Again, it also came from yesterday's events in Syria, where the policies, which have been demonstrated in particular by refugees in the form of anti-governmentism, were wrong. According to reports, 600 Syrian refugees were sent from Akchakale Border Gate to Syria yesterday. This practice, which is a total violation of international law, is equivalent to the death of these citizens. There must be an explanation here. If Syrian refugees were sent to Syria, it should be explained by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as to what legislation or international law. We especially want to repeat his warning that in this foreign policy, there are a number of cult-axised searches that are wrong and will lead to disasters that will lead the country to regional war. Again, we believe that the State Department has not made any statement about the murder of three Kurdish women politicians in Paris and that the silence that has entered into Paris has been gravely severe. Likewise, we want to emphasize that anti-Kurdish policies in the Middle East will not win Turkey in any way, nor will anti-Kurdish policies in any way win the peoples in the Middle East. If we build policies through unity, not just for Kurds, but for non-Muslims, bleeding...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0028par0278	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0027par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. We also believe that reviewing our existing policies for non-Muslims and other peoples and making new openings will lead to the country. Again, we feel that the U.N. operation, which the Prime Minister has repeatedly complained about, is very wrong for today. We want to point out that the United Nations has more institutional functioning than the nations. If, indeed, the concept of united nations is true, we believe that it is important in the Middle East that the Palestinian people and the 40 million Kurdish people are represented in the United Nations as stateless communities and unstated nations. We would like to stress here the error of relations that have been developed regarding NATO and the service of colonialism. We think it's important that all these warnings be taken into account by the State Department and reflected in foreign policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I respectfully salute the General Assembly, stressing that the Foreign Minister should heed the Parliament's work and the views expressed in parliament and that its absence in today's genus is a major flaw.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0029par0287	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Aytun Çıray. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0291	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are clearly confused about the fact that the Prime Minister has sent the Minister of Energy as Minister and the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs as Undersecretary. Dear friends, the reason you're trying to hide these talks from our people today is because of a terrible network of foreign policy and dirty relations, and that's what this is about. Otherwise, we are not against trade, nor are we against the wealth and prosperity of our Kurdish brothers living in northern Iraq. Because we know that business develops relationships between people and improves brotherhood. However, under the appearance of trade and energy policies, we cannot allow lawlessness, immorality, and the removal of the region from the Central Government of Iraq. Besides, it wouldn't be good for our Kurdish brothers who live there. Mr. Secretary, it's as obvious as the day you followed a policy that encouraged the division of Iraq. For example, you had Iraqi Vice President Al Hashimi, who was wanted by INTERPOL with a red bulletin, in Turkey. In the Iraq elections, the list of al-Iraqi was written in my residence. The name is Foreign Minister Davutoglu. But there's something far worse than that, dear friends. In violation of Article 110 of the Iraqi Constitution, Foreign Minister Davutoglu somehow went to visit Erbil (Erbil) and then to Kerkuk (Kerkuk). So, with this visit, Mr. Davutoglu has shown that he knows the Iraqi regional administration as a state, even if not as a jure. But there's something worse. Davutoglu did not go through Ankara, but through Erbil, to put dynamite under the policy that the Kerkuk (Kerkuk) was a special province in Baghdad, where Turkey had been fighting and resisting for many years. Dear friends, Mr. Minister, the Central Government of Iraq has no right to block the oil exports of the Kurdistan regional administration. Dear lawmakers, it was inevitable that this policy would produce a reaction in Iraq, then in the entire Arab world. Add to that the privilege of being the blood-soaked responsible for the disasters in Syria, and see what happens. As a matter of fact, Macit, a consultant to Maliki, is involved in the internal affairs of Iraq at a conference in the United States. He said that the foreign policies of the AKP are clearly religious and ethnic, which we agree is that AKP is doing sectarian and ethnic politics. Dear friends, Davutoglu's strategic fraud policies are completely contrary to universal values and true peace. This policy reflects a fundamentalist understanding, just as it did in Syria, and it positions the entire state of Turkey next to the murderous fanatics, Al Qaedaci. But more importantly, this policy is against the high interests of the Turkish nation. Dear friends, we don't object to gas from Iraq or the oil trade, but we do know that the Iraq national oil company is responsible for exports and imports of natural gas and oil products in Iraq, provided the sovereign state of Iraq is taken from the Republic of Iraq in accordance with international law and international trade. Gentlemen, Iraq has 9 per cent of the world's proven oil reserves, which is 143 billion barrels of oil, and Iraq has 2 per cent of the world's proven natural gas reserves, which is equal to 3.6 trillion cubic metres of gas. But now, please listen to me very carefully. These numbers I'm talking about, they're not numbers produced by the regional administration of Northern Iraq. These are the figures produced in all of Iraq. Most of these are produced in the south, in Basra, and 80 per cent of the oil produced is produced in the south, 20 per cent in the northern Iraq regional administration; 60 per cent of the natural gas produced is produced in the south, 40 per cent of the natural gas produced in the north. So, you think of a mind that, if you think about an idea, it's going to give up 4/5 of a cake, it's going to do politics over 1/5, it's going to be called politics, it's going to be business. This is a job that would suit Mr. Foreign Minister Davutoglu. Dear friends, this has both economic and political problems. The political motive is clear: according to the new constitution adopted after the occupation, all the oil in Iraq is owned by the Iraqi people. Therefore, the right to operate and export it is the right of the Iraqi Central Government. So, Mr. Secretary, as you've come here and written down to your lackeys, there are very rich oil sources in northern Iraq, Turkey will import them, Turkey will turn the corner, and North Iraq will turn the corner, and we'll get Misaklill. You can't sell us their bullshit. Well, there's the numbers. Because most of Iraq's oil and gas reserves are not in the north, but in the south. Reports from the International Energy Agency show all of this. We have another loss from this politics. Now, Mr. Secretary, two days ago at CNN, they said they had five major deals. Five blocks of oil and natural gas search, extraction and development. And because of that policy, the Iraqi Central Government cancelled the deal on the 9th block, and they said, "If you continue like this, we will cancel your agreement on the other four blocks. And our shares were given to the Kuwait Energy Company. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, you don't know how this is accountlessness. Mr. Prime Minister says... it's probably all about the Prime Minister's negotiation. I don't know if I drink hemlock poison, but the Prime Minister is definitely involved in toxic relationships. Dear lawmakers, I don't know whether the United States government will hold the account behind their heads or not, but they have made statements confirming our belief that this policy will divide Iraq. Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki has said that Turkey is becoming an enemy state. Why do you and the Prime Minister have such policies that will lead to the break-up process of Turkey? Who do you trust here, who do you lean on? Mr. Minister, we know that Mr. Foreign Minister's scheme: Northern Iraq will put Kurdish government and Kurdish forces in Syria into a joint political structure, and then they will add a federal structure to Turkey, where we've done the custom. That's how you make roads and interests that lead to our disaster. This team, sworn to destroy the values of the Republic, unfortunately, is implementing such politics. Then there are some open-and-secure deals. They sign the framework agreement before they're brought to Parliament, they start importing oil without signing the original agreement, and it's been confirmed by the Prime Minister's statements in this file. So, what makes this government afford such scandal and crime? That's where dirty relationships come in with some political goals. We see the future of the Turkish nation being driven to the gaming table by the Prime Minister. The name of the game is the reduction of Turkey under an image of growth. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] These goals and interests have their sides. You know what's on one side of the network of interests. On the other hand, there are some companies and people associated with Çuk, who have the Prime Minister's open support. One of these companies is the Powertrans, which is now carrying northern Iraq oil in tankers. In the near future, the Powertrans aims to export oil from Turkey through its own pipeline in northern Iraq. Dear friends, when Turkey has its own oil pipeline and its strategic importance is very important and that oil pipeline can't be used at full capacity and that oil pipeline is being damaged, what reason do you give it the right to install a new oil pipeline? This Powertrans said that both the Chaluk Group is directly owned by the Powertrans, where they have documents -- the Trade Record; the newspaper's account is back-to-back -- as well as Mehmet Habbab, one of the businessmen who did it, said that the Powertrans is an open Powertransman's partnership with Çuk. Now, two days ago, the precious Minister of Energy appeared on CNN television, and the valued journalist there asking questions asked him if you'd ever been or haven't you been to the regional administration of Northern Iraq about some companies? Mr. Secretary, everyone, including Russia, is naming names. They're all names, but why don't we name the state of the Republic of Turkey? In fact, he's agreed to my claims. Mr. Secretary, Russia may actually give you names, but as far as I know, all the companies Russia gave you are state companies. So, I'm asking you, if you're suggesting a company, I wrote this in my motion, you haven't answered -- based on what criteria do you propose those companies? Are you bidding? What are you doing? Doesn't this Parliament have a right to know? I'll tell you something else. Last I heard, you signed an agreement Monday night. You and Minister of Energy Havrami on the other side were going to sign this agreement earlier, but there was a crisis when the Republican People's Party seized this motion, and the Prime Minister was going to initial it with the regional administration of Northern Iraq, along with Neçirvan Barzani, which you had signed with Havrami, an assistant secretary of the Ministry of Energy signed by you. Now, isn't this deal going to be a government deal? Don't you recognize the northern Iraqi regional leadership as a state? Dear friends, I have nothing against innocent bureaucrats. How do they authorize them, what company do they show them? You know, you also built a lot of offshore companies. Again, this Parliament, who are the partners of these offshore companies, who are the board members, who are the partners, who are not aware of them. If Turkey is a transparent and democratic country... in this Parliament, the Prime Minister always turns around and says the government is a unconditional nation. So this Parliament has the right to learn on behalf of the nation? Dear friends, now comes an oil law to this Parliament, I assure you, to cover all this. This law is coming for him. Now, don't call him that. Mr. Prime Minister said that if you don't do business with the CEO of OMV, we won't give you a job in Turkey. Turkey knows that. Dear friends, as a result, the work done is against the law. These decisions were taken after Mesut Barzani came to Turkey on April 19, 2012, and after meeting with Mr. Davutoglu, Mr. Beşir Atalay, MİT and the foreign secretary, Neçirvan Barzani again arrived. Now, dear lawmakers, all this stuff I'm telling you is one another's whole. Because of the AKP, every process we go through is related to each other, and Israel's apology to us is related to these processes. But I'll tell you this: we're proud to apologize to Turkey, we have no objection, we'd be honored. However, Livni, who thinks that Mr. Prime Minister is Arab, says: "The apology of Israel does not have anything that undermines the legitimacy of the military action to stop the Turkish fleet." Could it be more obvious? So, can we talk about your apology victory? Do you question why and why this apology was begged three years later? Why are you and the Prime Minister's charisma being renovated with this apology? Was there an apology for peace or for a new war to use you in Syria and Iran? By the way, when I said sorry, it occurred to me. The Prime Minister has been waiting for days for CHP to make a statement, to apologize like Israel, but they've been beating the crap out of the Foreign Minister, but they've given him the wrong question about the Minister of Foreign Affairs about energy, he said. Oh, Mr. Prime Minister, don't worry, we didn't give it by mistake, we just put it in order, it'll be up to the Minister of Energy. Then, as head of the organization, we'll give you the geneor for yourself, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0031par0320	Be honest about the Prime Minister, what do you mean, a member of the organization?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0032par0321	What organization?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0322	As for the apology: CHP chiefs and the last president, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, prefer not to do things to apologize, rather than to do things to apologize.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0031par0324	We were so scared, so scared!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0033par0325	I think you're in pain.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0326	Like you said, you know the apology business very well. You said Zionism was a crime of humanity, and you spent time in Denmark. So listen to me carefully. On 1 March 2013, one of the most honored votes in the history of our Parliament was held. The rejection of the March 1st resolution led by the Republican People's Party has left us with no neighboring and Muslim blood. On that day, Turkey's reputation star rose to the highest in the Arab world. Today, the Republican People's Party was justified by those who thought they were respectable in Arab countries. The Baas dictatorship was destroyed, but among Muslims, as in Kerbela, the seeds of hatred and hatred have been planted, blood has been spilled, and you, Prime Minister, who likes to apologize and beg, now, right now, today, apologize for your efforts to pass the March 1st from the Turkish nation, the Muslim world and the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0034par0328	Come to Demirel, now.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0035par0329	Also go to Assad.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0330	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the fashion is now to be made up by the Prime Minister's copywriters. The famous column printers and the protagonists that the Prime Minister had laid eggs on, they wrote it as a miracle. What is it? I don't know if there's a word that contradicts history. It's the total denial of human experience, the sheer stupidity of our people. How did the Ottoman Empire become an empire if there were no winners in the war? ▪ There is no winner of the war! Lausanne was signed with a peace offering? What was Mondros, Sevr, who destroyed the Ottoman dignity if there was no loser of peace?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0034par0331	You don't understand your essence, you don't understand your essence!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0332	There are also winners in wars, worthy trustees, who dictate peace to the losers. Today, if the PKK dictates the terms, the winner of the war is Ocalan, the loser is Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0036par0334	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0037par0335	You'll be the losers, you! The CHP will lose, don't worry!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0336	Dear Justice and Development Party members, I have nothing to say to your national opinion core staff running the party.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0036par0337	Why are you so afraid of peace?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0338	My word is for the social democrats in you, the statesmen in you, the Democrats in you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0038par0339	We don't know them.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0039par0340	He's starting a band of irons.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0341	The minister and the Prime Minister have a moral problem, a legal problem, a political problem, a problem in our security, a problem in trade, a problem because you're willing to accept a small piece of the integrity of Iraqi natural resources, a violation of the Constitution, and a problem because you're going to be tried in the Supreme Court. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, come, put your hand on your conscience, vote positive for this gene. Remember, the important thing is what war is, what kind of peace it is. Your position at the established peace table is important.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0039par0344	You're way behind, way past that.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0030par0345	Beyond that, it's about your power to deceive yourself. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish! That's it!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0040par0348	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Siirt MP Afif Demirkıran. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Ironbreaker.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0352	Dear MPs, Mr. Aytun Çıray of the People's Party of Cumhuriyet People's Party, and I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the motion they made against Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, our Foreign Minister. Mr. Cherry, why are you so angry? You didn't have to give me a question to say that. You'd take it again, you'd come here, you'd say what you said, but the gene is a serious matter. The gene is a serious matter, and when the gene is given, it needs to be known what it's for.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0042par0354	Bravo.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0355	Although the Republican People's Party has this kind of directional error all the time, but let's get back to the subject, the gene.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0043par0356	You're from outside.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0357	Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0044par0358	You don't know where you are, this is the Republic of Turkey. You don't have enough power over some things!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0359	Dear friends, first of all, I have to say that your question was given at the wrong time, that you showed the wrong address, that you were wrong and that you were homeless, that you were in conflict with the interests of our country, that you were written in the psychology of fear and doubt.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0045par0360	Comfort yourselves!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0361	In fact, I would much like for the opposition to bring up a gene for more effort in order to get more of the hydrocarbon resources in Iraq. I believe that a geneor in this context will strengthen and support our government's hand. However, in the past ten years, our government, which has taken the country off the edge of a cliff and made it the world's 16th and 6th largest economy of Europe and Europe, has taken every precaution in our country's energy supply security, as well as its success in foreign policy, which has led to the world's largest growing economies.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0045par0362	You took it without terror and turned it over to terror!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0363	Doesn't it mean anything to you that our government apologizes and accepts the terms of our country as a result of its firm and upright standing with the dignity of our country? Unfortunately, the speakers who come up here are still trying to underestimate our victory in this foreign policy, which is impossible to understand. Dear friends, how can you ignore the rise of Turkey's credit rating by the credit rating of developed countries due to economic crises? I don't have the language we've had for decades, but- just as we've paid back all our debts to the IMF, which we've been begging for, there's no way to greet a Turkey who's willing to lend $5 billion in demand. It's no longer Turkey that bends and bends, but it's not Turkey that's being respected and stood up, that's going behind agendas that are out of its own will, but it's Turkey that's directing developments in its own interests and creating an agenda in the international arena. We can only be proud of our Prime Minister and all the ministers of our government, who have worked day and night for ten years with great determination, determination, and courage to build such a country. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, political, economic, commercial, cultural and human relations between Iraq and our country have a very special significance. Until very recently, Iraq was part of the Ottoman state, and the long lasting union of fate brought a very different dimension to relations between the two countries. The relations between Turkey and Iraq have a different depth, a different wealth, and a common savings. I also think it is of great benefit to state that the well-being and happiness of the Iraqi and Iraqi people, which are of particular importance to Turkey and the Turkish people, is vital to us. Just as we see differences in our country as a wealth, we feel the same deeply about Iraq. Iraq, like other countries in our region, has different elements, and these differences together form the integrity of Iraq. We have always respected the territorial integrity of not only Iraq, but of all our neighbors, and we have defended that integrity, and we have built our policies and relationships on these foundations. Mr. President, I think it would be wise for Mr. Cırray to examine the constitutional structure of Iraq and the flexibility of the administrative units within this structure by doing the necessary research based on reports from newspapers and websites. In this case, any company should know that it is possible to sign a contract with the authorities of Iraq. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, our neighbor is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of oil and gas resources in Iraq. Iraq's hydrocarbon potential has not yet been fully established, but after the normalisation of Iraq's peace and prosperity, Iraq is expected to provide 45 percent of the world's demand for oil and natural gas by itself, estimates are such. These rich sources, which Iraq has, are not only gathered or stuck in a particular part of the country, but rather, they provide a disorganized structure, without saying north, south, east, west. However, as Mr. Aytun Çiray, the owner of the gene, has just said, North Iraq is not such a poor place, but I'll come to those numbers soon. Is it possible that our companies operate in Iraq, our historically long-standing neighbor with such rich resources? Mr. President, there are 143 billion barrels of oil in Iraq at the end of 2011 -- which is about 9 percent of the world's oil. The oil reserves of the northern Iraqi region are also known as 45 billion barrels. According to the World Energy Statistics Report 2012, Iraq's natural gas reserves are also described as 3.6 trillion cubic metres by the end of 2011. However, according to British Heritage Oil, both the Minister of Natural Resources of Northern Iraq Regional Kurdish Management, there are between 3 and 6 -- these are minimal figures -- trillion cubic metres of natural gas, according to British Heritage Oil, which makes calls here and there. Of course, as Turkey, we should take our place in the search, production and marketing of energy sources throughout Iraq. However, isn't it against our country's interests to oppose the American giant company Exxon, France's Total, Russia's Gazprom, and our own firms making deals with northern Iraq? So far, about 40 companies from 20 countries have signed over 50 companies with the Kurdish government of Northern Iraq, which has made an agreement on production, sharing. In this case, our companies, who have worked so hard to get a share of their hydrocarbon resources in northern Iraq, are both dissatisfaction and injustice to express, expression and approach. Turkey has suffered more damage than such approaches in the past. In the past, many of us have witnessed that some authorities have always been distant from our companies, who wanted to do business abroad and try to make foreign currency for our country. But thankfully, today, from Mr. President to Prime Minister and all the ministers, everywhere they go in the world, they take our businessmen with them and open the way for them to do business. When it comes to our energy supply security, can we exclude the majority of Iraq, especially Northern Iraq? Besides, Turkish companies make serious contributions to Iraq by operating not only in the field of energy but in all areas. Exports from our country to Iraq last year reached the level of $11 billion. Iraq is the second most exported country since Germany, and is expected to rise to the 1st place soon. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have stated at our group meeting that the address of your client was wrong. And the speakers came here, and they expressed it here. That's what I said at the beginning of my speech. This whole question of energy should not have been given in consideration for the interests of our country. However, the address should have been Mr. Davutoglu, not Mr. Davutoglu, but Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy and Resources. Fortunately, we are correcting the error of our friends because our Minister of Energy, Mr. Taner Star, will answer the question. I'm not going to go into the technical details of your gene. Our Minister will make the necessary statements, respond to unjust claims as best he can, and share with us the efforts of our country's energy security. I, here, just want to share with you another matter that is very disturbing to me and to everyone who reads the gene. It is stated that our national security will be threatened and our country will be divided in two places. How, for God's sake, can we call the struggle to include our companies in production and marketing of rich sources of oil and natural gas, right next to us, on the land of a friendly and brother country, and call it the threat of national security and division of our country? When companies from America, Russia, France, China, South Korea, Austria, Britain, Spain, Spain, and many other countries come in and make deals for hydrocarbon resources that are right next to us, they operate in the best interest of their country, but do our companies that strive to provide cheaper and safer energy energy to our industry, do they threaten our national security and divide our country? Come on, guys, don't be so self-conscious and cynical. Don't be afraid, there's an AK PARTY in power, and hopefully, with everyone's gratitude, he'll be in power for a long time. We've got 2023 more targets, 2071, and then we've got dreams. Don't tell me you're dreaming, we're not just making dreams, we're turning them into reality, we're making things that others can't even imagine. Don't worry, our country's national security is not only guaranteed, but the security of 76 million of our citizens living on 780,000 square miles of land is also guaranteed by our power. Especially to express our country's division, to even think about it, is to not know the reality of Turkey, not to read the world, and especially not to know the AK PARTY and its loved ones at all. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to briefly share with you our energy policy with the meaning of energy, which is an essential part of our lives and one of the most important tools of our world's sustainable development efforts. Especially with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Gulf War, the emergence of new natural gas and oil reserves, the importance of energy and energy diplomacy has increased. Energy diplomacy is also very important for our country because Turkey is located in the region of about 70 per cent of the world's oil and gas reserves. The Middle East, Central Asia and Caucasus countries are a natural bridge between the rich oil and natural gas sources of the Middle East, Central Asia and Caucasus as well as the rich consumer markets of the West. Turkey claims to be the energy corridor and terminal of its region. Turkey, which imports most of its energy, is developing projects to ensure its own supply security and diversification of energy sources and transport routes that provide energy supply security for EU countries. Dear friends, our import bill for 2012 has found $60 billion. Now, you're here, and you're saying that it's not the right approach for our companies to do business in northern Iraq, Iraq, and to look for oil there -- and when they extract that oil -- that oil will enter Turkey, it won't count as import -- to do so. Now, for God's sake, if that's the case, how are we going to afford it, how are we going to afford our lack of energy? But, don't worry, Turkey's Oil is searching both natural gas and oil in the sea. I hope and believe that by the year 2023, Turkey will become a country that produces its own oil -- but from Turkey, but out of Turkey -- and has reset imports. Turkey's annual demand for primer energy increases by about 5 per cent and its annual consumption of electricity by about 7-8 per cent. These numbers and Turkey are the 1st among the OECD countries in the energy demand increase, and the second in the world after China. Under all these issues, it is certain that Turkey will increase its strength and importance in the region as much as energy diplomacy meets its requirements. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, on the one hand, our country is conducting many national and international projects to ensure its own energy security, while strengthening its position in the issues I just mentioned. The main component -- I won't go into the details -- is the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Ham Oil Pipeline, the most important component of the East-West Energy Corridor, which has been in operation since 2006. The Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Line is a project to meet the need for natural gas, not only for Turkey, but for Europe. The agreement on Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, which will carry 6 billion cubic metres of Azerbaijan Shahdeniz gas into the country and 10 billion cubic metres into Europe, was signed in October 2011, as we call it, the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline. Again, Turkey-Greek-Italian Natural Gas Pipeline (which is the southern ring) has been connected to Greece since 2007; its link to Italy will be completed in 2017 with a pipeline that will go under the Adriatic Sea. On the other hand, the Nabucco Project is a very important project. While there are some challenges here, this project is a project that can have a very important function in the event of life. The gas from the Caspian region will be carried through Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary to Austria, where it can be distributed to other points of Europe. On the other hand, as you know, Turkey-Iraq Ham Oil Pipeline, the agreements on it were extended in 2010 as 15+5 years. The agreement on Turkey-Iraq Natural Gas Line was held in 2009. Traffic in the throats is very important. The protocol for the Samsun-Ceyhan Ham Oil Pipeline was signed in August 2009 to bring oil down to Ceyhan, which will come to Samsun in order to reduce traffic in the throats -- which is an important terminal for both natural gas and especially raw oil distribution -- and for Russia's oil pipeline. There are also various agreements with all neighbours, North Africa, and all other countries with oil and energy. Dear friends, this is all well and good, but let me share our energy strategy and policy very briefly. And I'm running out of time. Dear friends, we first care about local resources. The diversity of local resources and resources is our priority.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0046par0385	In ten years, stone coal has fallen in half, energy from our local resources has dropped by 50 percent.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0386	In this immediate context, we predict that 30 percent of the energy we consume when we arrive at 2023 is from local resources. We're going to do 20,000 megawatts of our wind, at least 3,000 megawatts of our sun, 6,000 megawatts of our geothermal, all of our coal, and all of our hydraulic capacity -- about 140 billion kilowatts per year, 36 megawatts -- at the disposal of our economy. We're raising renewable energy sources -- yes, I said increase its share -- to 30 percent in 2023. We prioritize energy efficiency on all steps of the chain of energy from production to consumption. Energy efficiency is very important. Besides, we're liberalizing the energy sector. By the time we reach 2023, at least 75 percent of energy will be produced by the private sector. The diversity of resources and routes is very important, and the diversity of resources and countries is really important for the energy security of both Turkey and Europe. And most importantly, we're analyzing the concept of our country's energy corridor and terminal, and we're working, and hopefully, we're going to do that with international projects that we're doing.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0047par0389	You mean that by believing?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0390	And while we're doing all this, we're going to make energy in terms of price, time, and quantity accessible to consumers, and we're doing all of this work in an environmentally friendly approach.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0047par0391	There's a 4% increase in electricity.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0041par0392	Mr. President, dear MPs, so that I can stop speaking, and I will respectfully vote against the motion of Republican People's Party MP Aytun Çıray and his friends on our Foreign Minister, Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0048par0394	Thank you, Mr. Ironcracker. In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0398	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our government on the motion for the geneorization of the People's Party (CHP). I salute your committee with respect and love. Of course, we're discussing an important matter on this occasion. We're talking about a relevant issue that concerns Turkey's energy strategies and policies in the region. Sure, what kind of Iraq is there? Is Iraq too far away for us? How else can we talk about Iraq and Turkey in an environment where Turkey's construction, power in the region, apology by some people is underestimated, but it is appreciated in the world? I think we could use a little consideration. Of course, our foreign minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu and his team, we work in an integral piece. We all know that energy diplomacy contains projects that are too important and too large to be purged of international relations. Besides, I think it's very important for me to be here as Minister of Energy and Natural Resources for the issues we're working on, beyond the fact that any member of the government is here. Of course, from a social point of view, from an administrative point of view, we need to look at a little bit of Iraq. The protection of Iraq's political union and integrity is one of the most important priorities of Turkish foreign policy, and we are maintaining our principled position on this issue with all aspects, and our recent relations and co-operation with the Kurdish regional administration of Iraq are in line with the Constitution of Iraq, which is in fact very much in line with the Iraqi Constitution. In this regard, I have to explain that our relations with the Iraqi Kurdish regional administration, the unity and unity of Iraq, the integrity of our country, are a mechanism that, on the contrary, confirms. Dear friends, with the performance of the government of the Republic of Turkey in particular in the last decade, it has tripled its GDP, its energy construction, and it is consistent. Turkey is a state of law and is one of the countries that considers international law the most, which is why it puts this kind of will in the relations of the Greek Cypriot government, which has become a viable economic field in the Eastern Mediterranean. That is why Israel deserves an apology, as well as a severe reprimand for the action that was committed against international law. In that respect, the governments of the Republic of Turkey have not signed or signed any international agreements with the Iraqi Kurdish regional administration within the framework of a treaty or agreement. Look, this place is extremely important. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister has said that it is not right to give international relations to the State Department because it does not make international relations a relationship with governments. Our topic here is mostly energy warheads, but it's very important to know what method this is done in. Therefore, according to Article 244 of Law, it is well known that our State Department is in charge of the creation of texts on behalf of our country and the governing of all these processes, including approval, of international agreements. But we insist on saying that there is no text, no paperwork or decree that has been referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but there is no reason for any contract to be made -- whether public or private sector -- in accordance with private law laws under the name of the law agreement. Look, 19 countries in northern Iraq, 19 countries from the United States, Norway to Australia, have 40 separate companies, no problems, but there is no problem when Turkish companies are found. Dear friends, is there nothing wrong with that? But you can do that, but you can't send oil to Turkey. Instead of defending the central Iraqi government in an unsolicited manner, you should come and defend the people of Turkey and the people of Turkey. I'm amazed at that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Generally speaking, there have been talks in accordance with the General Assembly's statement, talks with its ruling opposition so far, within the limits of extremely politeness. I'm returning some exceptions to them. I find our Prime Minister's issue of toxic relations unacceptable. In these matters, personally, about these agreements, look, we have no agreement between governments, no text on this issue, no resolutions, no structures sent to the Council of Ministers or sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And it operates within a logical integrity. I'm asking a very clear question now, friends: over the years, the tanker trade has been moving goods to Iran from northern Iraq, shipping raw oil, taking back some oil products. Then why didn't we come and say anything about the Grand National Assembly of Turkey General Assembly? If that was taken correctly, you would have to defend the truth the same way that Iran did. Besides, there's only one way to normalize Iraq, friends: there are now 2.7 million barrels of daily production in Iraq. Our friends gave us the numbers, and from what I understand, the opposition has generally stated that they have nothing to do with any of our oil-related, natural gas-related structures. That part's true, but now, by 2020 -- confirming the data from the International Energy Agency -- do you know what it means to have been converted into 6 to 7 million barrels of daily production? Turkey has access to 76 million populations, 60 billion dollars in raw oil and all energy sources. As such, Iraq has a $100 billion income. So for the revenues expected to go up to $300 billion, Turkey is not indifferent to the normalisation of Iraq, but to all but its contribution to the whole. If Turkey is entering any oil deals with Colombia, Venezuela, 8,000 kilometers away -- I'm sorry -- there is no way that we can be indifferent to a matter of natural gas, related to any oil 200 kilometers ahead of us. Besides, he's doing it with commercial companies -- as I say -- with framework contracts that are subject to special legal provisions. We say, we criticize, and we say, "Why do you get so much from Russia?" Here's an alternative: right now we're buying raw oil from the Central Iraqi government, worth about 3.5 or 4 million tons of valuable friends a year. Why do you leave the whole, the large part of it there and deal with the few parts? It's the lack of information, the wrong information. Look, I'm going to tell you about the tender we received in our Basra district, in Missan. In Siba. In Mansuriya. We got this three years ago. Guys, we should all be happy. Turkey's Oil Anonymous Association, where $25 billion in business, four major consortium members -- including South Koreans, Kuwaiti, United Arab Emirates -- has made these agreements, and only $5.5 billion in Turkey's share. The Central Government of Iraq has decided not to sign a $236 million deal. We said to them, "You are our friend and brother country." Is there another deal you don't want to sign? If so, let us add them in the same way. We believe that the normalization of Iraq, the taking of all these oil wells and natural gas sources into business, the taking of search activities and production activities. Look, in three years, if Iraq gets to this point, three years of income is worth a trillion dollars, dear friends, from the north to the south, it's built all over with a trillion dollars. We believe it's right to take jobs everywhere because the south doesn't notice the north or the east or the west. And is there a project that we can develop together at the meeting at Saint-Petersburg, the Minister of Oil of the Central Iraqi Government? I said there's too many. For example, one of these is that the lane to the coast has been in the Persian Gulf for about 58 kilometers, and it can't move all its produce from there. They said, "Can we do a project from Basra to Turkey through northern Iraq?" Yes, we can. That's what I said. Together, we can develop this -- oil -- 1,200km line. If you want, as a public, as a private sector, together, if you want, with another partner, we're all in. Because this project is a project that will allow Iraq to normalize. Now, our friends -- we're taking this mission in government seriousness -- say, why did you go down to Kayseri to eat dumplings on the way to Erbil? Guys, you're saying this could be a shrinking point for me, right? Well, if I could show you this, I'd have to stand up and say, "Friends and brothers, for my neighboring country..." Look, friends, you're making a mistake. Here, I have a document, written on December 3rd, the English text. I'm going to visit Erbil, what do you say, he's going to the Ministry of Transport and the State Department because we want permission to fly. Here's the document. I'll send it to you in a moment. The answer is coming: we are honored to report that the landing permit required for the Turkish plane was granted as follows: "This is the following thing." That's what the Ministry says, the Central Iraqi Government, followed by the Arabic text.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0050par0410	Why wasn't that plane landed?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0411	Oh, now, why didn't they download it? If you say so, I passed it in a diplomatic sentence: "Friend and brother are a disconnect between my neighbouring country, Iraq." Those who know what that means know what it means.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0050par0412	Your plane didn't land there!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0413	And then they say, "Well, we didn't mean to do this to you, but what were you going to do in that moment?" Guys, I'm talking through the paperwork, the paperwork.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0050par0415	Let's see that paper, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0416	These are licensed documents. Now, you're saying that you run the Kerkuk-Egg crude oil pipeline there. This business is hurting. I'll give you some numbers.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0051par0419	Let's see the original of that document.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0420	Friends, our Kerkuk-Egg crude oil pipeline is not damaged, and in 2011, we obtained 407 million dollars and 469 million dollars from there in 2012. Our agreement is to charge a transfer fee of $1.75 per barrel. In 2010, I was the one who signed that agreement in Baghdad to extend it for fifteen years. Dear friends, we also put in the agreement the following text: "If in three years we enter it in 2013 -- if the required amount of crude oil, 70 million tonnes of crude oil, cannot be passed there, then half of this will be paid by the passing price," says the agreement. Now, we want our Iraqi brothers to pass 70 million tons, but if they can't, we'll get the money for 35 million tons. Now, I say: There is only one way to normalize Iraq, without looking at the five of them, without looking south to the east to the west, without looking south to the five of them, there is only one way to get Iraq's revenues to the entire Iraqi people. That way, all these oil and natural gas wells are increased. We can confirm that we're consistent from many points. Why do we oppose the efforts of the Greek Cypriot government in Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean? Friend, we're doing this because we say that the exclusive economic field is not confirmed by international law, that it is not approved by its parliaments. We say there's only one way to do this: if those calls are to continue, if they're to be made from there, we say that this is the entire Cypriot community, with the north and the south. We say the same thing in Iraq. Precious friends in one barrel of crude oil acquired in northern Iraq, all Iraqi people have rights there.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0052par0424	The central government won't accept it. We'll decide?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0425	Now, if the Iraqi Constitution says that I'm giving 17 percent of this to Northern Iraq, or rather Iraq to the regional Kurdish administration, I'm taking 83 percent of it. If it says that, we're only respecting it. Do we have the authority to make any ideas, any transactions on this? Do we have any concerns about getting involved in internal affairs? We have no such concerns, my friends.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0053par0426	Tell me, why is Maliki against it? If there is such a deal, why would Maliki object?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0427	We say: Iraq as a Muslim, friend, brother and neighbouring country and as a country that has made 48 agreements in strategic co-operation meetings among them, we need to help normalize whether Iraq is very well managed or not. This is not just about the interests of Turkey, friends. The one who does the right thing gets stronger, the weak who do the wrong thing. We're standing here in the right place, and we're doing the right thing. Hopefully, we'll keep doing those things. The Iraqi Kurdish regional administration does not have any international agreement authority unless the entire Iraqi Constitution has issued a warrant.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0054par0429	Okay, that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0049par0430	I also want to make a brief reminder that the Iraqi Constitution, which was adopted in 2005, defines Iraq as a federal and sovereign state, states that the government form is a representative and democratic republic, and states that it is the Council of Representatives and the Council of the Federation has not been established until now. Now, the Kurdish regional administration of Iraq, which has a federative administrative structure, consists of three provinces: Dohuk, Erbil and Süleymaniye. It has its own parliament, its president, and its prime minister. There are 18 provinces in Iraq, my friends. The powers of the governors who lead this province are beyond the powers of governors in our country as we understand it, and beyond the administrative structures that are represented, these governors in 18tane province. Now, the Iraqi people have all decided together, made their choice. Although he couldn't pass the hydrocarbon law, although he couldn't approve it, there are a lot of companies and countries who are currently operating there with 40 companies that are oil-producing, natural gas-producing. They will not be subject to the control and control of any ministry or institutions and institutions that do not belong to any ministry, and they will also be independent of the Constitution. We're talking about Iraq. Provinces are run by governors elected by the province's parliaments, and governors are driven and taken from their powers in the allocation of state budgets. Now, look online, you can find those companies and countries on the Internet, whether they're in Iraq, north or south, with any agreement, any text, any framework contract, special legal provisions or whatever. Just because a trade deal is confidential doesn't mean all these deals are confidential. I repeat: The government of the Republic of Turkey has not made any transactions from a government to a government that will not be referred to a text of an agreement or any structure to a Council of Ministers or to Parliament. Can this happen in the future? We'll watch and see the process together in the future. Look, the International Energy Agency says Iraq will be the world's largest exporter by 2035. He is in front of Iran. Now, dear friends, there's no question that we're indifferent to any of the energy pens here, which is already unthinkable. We, along with our brothers and our executives in the Central Iraqi government, will hopefully develop these projects and do them together. I'm telling you once again, right now, we're not normally indifferent to the South and the North and the East and the West, to any project. I salute your committee with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0055par0437	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0056par0438	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0055par0439	Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0056par0440	Mr. Secretary has given the Grand National Assembly incomplete information in some of the things he referred to me in his speech, and I'd like to correct them, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0055par0441	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0056par0445	Dear friends, what you are seeing right now is a report from March 26th that Iraqi official Shiwan Zulan had made an official agreement on Turkey and that Neçirvan Barzani had come to Turkey for this reason.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0057par0446	He denied it.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0056par0447	Dear friends, Mr. Minister, the Turkish Oil Association will continue to search for natural gas and oil. The oil law will take away the right to seek natural gas and oil from the Turkish Petroleum Association. Thus, Turkey's oil and natural gas found in the Black Sea will no longer be able to search Turkey. Also, companies like Exxon and Total export in Turkey, work with northern Iraq, but they don't import directly, they do things over it with the Iraqi Central Government. Let me tell you something else that's not true: 84 percent of the companies that import and operate oil in the world are state companies, 67% of the private sector. What happened to Turkey giving its own companies here? Again, Mr. Secretary says he made a deal in the south five blocks. We're happy about that. Turkey's Oil Incorporated Association has worked for 20 years to make these agreements. But Mr. Minister, because of the wrong policy of the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister, I have just stated in my speech that the 9th block has been cancelled, and the Central Government has announced that if we continue with this policy, it will also cancel the other blocks. Now, Mr. Minister gives the example of Iran again, where natural gas and oil go from there to Iran, you don't make a sound, you interfere with us. And I say, if Iran is smuggling, are we smuggling? Besides, I'm not Iran's lawyer. I'm defending Turkey's interests. The Justice and Development Party must have enjoyed pursuing the interests of other countries. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary, no deal has been made. There's never been an agreement to be brought here until now. Let me just say you didn't answer any of what I just said. But he adds, just because these agreements were not made, doesn't mean they weren't to be done. He says that now, I've said, the news of the newspaper is reflected in the newspapers, and the press reports say that all these agreements have been made. It's consistent with the date I just gave you. Dear friends, about the Minister's plane. The matter of the plane is not the Minister's reputation, but the reputation of the Republic of Turkey. Don't let the Minister lift his flight that he can't land. If he had an official warrant, he'd land his plane there, and we'd stand behind him for 70 million. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0455	Thank you, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0059par0456	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0457	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0060par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0459	Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0060par0460	Mr. President, I promise you, it doesn't matter if I'm in position or on the stand.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0461	It could be your place, if you like.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0061par0462	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has just written to me by the Iraqi Central Government to land my plane there. I want to see the original of that article.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0463	Look, the minister wants to talk.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0062par0464	Mr. President, I'm sending it to them, you can send it to them.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0063par0465	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0466	Just a minute, Mr. Tallie. Mr. Star, come to the stand if you want.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0064par0468	Aye.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0058par0469	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0064par0472	Mr. President, dear friends, I've asked our Undersecretary of State to send them the original and a copy of that article, and they'll be forwarding it to them in a moment. Guys, I'll tell you what, if we do some newspaper business, we're not gonna find our way home. We're not taking the news, we're taking it with us. We're taking it with us.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0065par0474	What should we do, set up an intelligence organization to get information?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0064par0475	Now in the Black Sea...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0065par0476	If you don't give us information, where do we get information?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0064par0477	Friends, the Central Iraqi Government can make a choice, and it says: "We have a $25 billion business deal with you guys, and we're giving it up." We respect that, but I'm going to show you a painting now. The debt to the governance of any country, to the truth, is not just about us. In the south of Iraq, there are 13 companies that make deals and 45 companies that make deals in the north of Iraq. Now we, in the Black Sea, are a significant part of what you call the state companies, ExxonMobil, the largest public firm in the world with $468 billion. You think BP is a government company? They're public companies that the government stands for.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0066par0478	Explain the odds!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0064par0479	What should we do with TPAO? I also see that there are some very valuable ideas coming from the opposition, and we discussed them thoroughly in the Commission. Dear friends, I must say that the Association of Turkish Oil Anonymous has achieved the capacity and capacity to perform all these operations in the third countries, much different in its own unique structure. If we turn our backs on these opportunities in Iraq today, for one reason or another, friends, we need to see what kind of opportunities have been missed in Kashagan, Kazakhstan, from 1991 to this part of the Soviet Union of Socialist Republics. Today, a reserve here is exactly 7 times the reserve of a region, a block, of the Shahdeniz-2 Project, friends. We're partners in the Shahdeniz-2 Project. We have a partnership in the Shahdeniz-1, and there are pipelines in the Shahdeniz-2. Now, how can we remain unconcerned with this situation? We see that Turkey, by choosing one country, means that it will not give up on the other, and that its ability and capacity to develop many projects is all growing together. I have signed an agreement with ExxonMobil, or Shell, in our operations here in the Black Sea. We will all do it together. We need to get to our local resources, oil and natural gas faster. The laws, meaning this, would also be a major pioneer for the arrival of both international capital and international investors. I, again, salute your delegation with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0067par0484	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0068par0485	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to say something from my position.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0067par0486	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute. I'd like to ask you all for a moment. Congressmans, please take your seats and be quiet for a moment, we're having trouble following the hum here. Please...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0069par0487	Tell the ministers, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0067par0488	Now, Mr. Longwalk, let me hear you, you just objected.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0489	Mr. President, I have Mr. Secretary's speech report, and I have a motion for a motion on the Foreign Minister, and I have a statement here regarding the integrity of the Turkish nation, foreign policy. This sentence, which begins with the Central Government of Iraq, reveals the government's true intentions. I want to talk about the bench.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0071par0490	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0491	That's the way it is.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0072par0492	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0493	That's the way it is.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0073par0494	It's not a procedure like this, Mr. President, to speak for what, to what?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0495	That's the way it is. It is contrary to the Turkish Minister's standing at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to speak to Turkey in terms such as the peoples of Turkey, in this kind situation today, with statements leading towards this separatism. I want the word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0073par0496	Mr. President, this has nothing to do with this.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0497	It's relevant, Mr. President. It's all about the agenda.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0074par0498	Mr. President has spoken his mind.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0499	It's all about the agenda.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0075par0500	You can call a press conference and tell them.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0070par0501	No, it's not a press conference, it's about the agenda.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0076par0502	Now, members of the group, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0075par0503	But you're listening to the interference.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0077par0504	Mr. President, is it an intervention to remind you of the procedure?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0076par0505	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, I repeat: please, I have to understand what you're saying, I can't hear and I can't understand when you're interrupted.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0075par0506	We said it after the sentence was finished.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0076par0507	Please do not interfere, please. You, now, what you just said...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0075par0509	It's already been filed.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0078par0510	Mr. President, I'm on the stand...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0076par0511	He's on the books.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0078par0512	No, it's not just that, there's six more, I want to say something about it.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0079par0513	He'll call a press conference and tell you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0076par0514	Please...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0078par0515	I mean, not for the record. These opinions were made clear by the Minister in a clear statement to the public. I'd like to speak from there, Mr. President, as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in a way that the public will hear. That's not a violation. There's a phrase there.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0080par0516	The Constitution says it's against the law.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0076par0517	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0078par0519	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear MPs, I read exactly what Mr. Minister Yıldız said in the transcripts of his statement: "You will not defend the central Iraqi government in an unsolicited way, but you will defend Iran's defences, come, defend the peoples of Turkey, the Turkish peoples. I'm amazed at it. He says, "Well, the AKP's lines are coming up with applause, these are the reports." Now, good luck to you; this is the AKP, BDP plus PKK coalition! What do you mean, Mr. Minister, the people of Turkey, the people of Turkey?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0081par0522	That's not a sentence, that's not a sentence.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0078par0523	This is where the AKP, BDP and PKK coalition are registered! Dear MPs, Turkey belongs to the Turkish nation. It is announced to our people, who have voted for AKP, who have identified themselves there, who have spoken of the unity of the nation, and who have voted for the AKP.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0081par0525	People of Turkey are different, people of Turkey are different.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0082par0526	People of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0083par0527	Demagoji, don't! Demagoji, don't!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0084par0528	This is the minister's statement here who has modeled Iraq in the courtesy of Turkey today. I want my people to know, I want my people to hear, I want my people to hear, and I want them to come to their senses. This is the statement of your ministers, and this is not just the statement of the one minister. Let the terrorists go as they came. I believe these ministers who have eliminated customs doors, justice, border protection, and everything will be investigated. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0085par0531	They're dropping flags at the border gates.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0086par0532	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0087par0534	Mr. Secretary, perhaps he'll compromise, sir, ask him.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0086par0535	Please, Mr. Korkmaz. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0088par0537	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary said you can't speak here based on news. It's a tease. I'd like to make it clear that I'm not speaking based on this.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0089par0538	He said it was newspaper news.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0090par0539	It's on the record.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0088par0540	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is very important, I have a historical document. It belongs to the State Department. This nation has the right to know.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0089par0541	He told me.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0091par0542	He didn't say. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0092par0547	Yeah, you've turned our voices down everywhere, and you can't stand us talking for three minutes over there.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0093par0548	We've endured for a hundred years, a hundred years.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0092par0549	Now, dear friends, let me tell you first: Mr. Secretary, we don't say stay indifferent to energy, do not trade in energy, we say don't engage in any other kind of illegal and illegal business. That's one. Secondly, I gave your Ministry three very comprehensive questions to the State Department and the Prime Minister at the beginning of January to get information about all this work. Dear friends, one of these three questions is not answering my questions, which come from your Ministry, but at least a state reflects its seriousness, Mr. Secretary. But there was no response from the PM's office. But, as someone who's been in the state bureaucracy, who's been in this country for four years, I'm going to show you a document that I've never seen in my life. Take good care of this envelope. This envelope contains the Assistant Director General of Political Planning of the State Department of the Republic of Turkey. This paper came out of it, a piece of paper. There's no signature on it, no letter, no date, no number. It says, "Mr. Chiray, the date 18/3/2013, your number-one application has been taken, and you have been examined on the subject. Have you seen anything like this? Has Turkey seen such a disgrace? Has he ever seen a government like this? That's why the Prime Minister didn't run the Foreign Minister out of here for nothing. Mr. Prime Minister didn't send the Minister of Energy here for nothing near Mr. Abdullah Gul. Mr. Secretary of State has been kidnapped from here, dear friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0094par0553	Thank you, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0095par0554	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0094par0555	Okay... For Mr. Tallırmak to talk about the report?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0095par0557	This way?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0096par0558	Mr. President, from the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0094par0559	Come on in from there.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0095par0560	It doesn't matter.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0097par0561	On the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0098par0562	Mr. President, what happens on the stand is answered from the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0095par0563	Guys, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0099par0564	Yes, the Minister prefers it.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0100par0565	He requested it, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0101par0569	Now, my dear friends, our MP got up, our MP said a sentence as if it were something very different, and as we were closing his sentences, he said: I am reporting this to my people from here.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0570	My people, not the people of Turkey, my people.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0101par0571	I don't mean anything other than what he meant to say to the public, and I don't mean...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0572	No, Mr. Secretary! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0101par0573	Wait a minute! What do you mean...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0103par0574	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0575	Shame on you! It doesn't suit your position. You say the people of Turkey, I say the people.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0101par0576	Wait a minute... why are you talking about something good when I say something bad to my people? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0577	Don't lie, you're talking about the people of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0104par0578	Don't turn it around, Mr. Secretary, tell the truth!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0579	People of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0105par0580	To my people and to my people.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0104par0581	What are your people's names?
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0582	The people of Turkey say.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0105par0583	I'm putting all the facts in the same way here, guys. I'm not saying anything different about this at all.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0585	Don't do so much, you're talking about the people of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0105par0587	Now, friends... wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0106par0588	Mr. Taller... Mr. Taller, please...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0589	Sit down! The people of Turkey say, hear with your ears.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0106par0590	Mr. Longback, please take your seat. Please...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0107par0591	Mr. President, this is about...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0102par0592	Read it, listen! Be a congressman!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0108par0594	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0109par0595	Mr. Tallermak, you're also the head of management, please...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0110par0596	Mr. President, the matter is quite clear. Now, we're here to talk about the deputy's...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0111par0597	Read it and listen! Be a congressman!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0112par0598	You be a man!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0111par0599	You're gonna teach us how to be a fucking man! We'll learn from you! Come... come...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0113par0600	The deputy's talking about...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0114par0602	Mr. President, invite him to discipline!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0113par0603	People who know me know what I mean, they know me well.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0115par0604	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0113par0605	So, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0115par0606	Copy that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0116par0607	You didn't answer, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0115par0611	Members of parliament, talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a request on Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu is on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0117par0612	I returned this paper.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0118par0614	Don't return it, take it home, read it, go home! Memorize it at home!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0119par0615	You can't say we're Turkish people, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0117par0616	You know who I am.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0120par0617	Now, I submit to your votes on whether or not the motion for the gene is to be raised: those who agree to the motion for the gene...
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0121par0618	It's not my intention, it's wrong. You can call it that.
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0122par0619	That's enough!
tbmm-2013-03-29sit01spe0120par0621	[[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Those of you who have refused to accept... the motion for the Gensorial has been denied. I'm taking a five-minute break.
