ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7107	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 7th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome all present and invited. At today's session, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, as well as members of the Council of Ministers, who will join us as soon as possible, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers, who have been appointed by the Council of Ministers, whose entry into office has been conditional on our today's decision to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision, have been called by representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Observer mission, representatives of the embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, a representative of the UN Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, once again, I welcome all those present, all those I listed, of course, as media representatives. I find that today's session of 42 MPs, numbered by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, is attended by 40 MPs. Mrs Seada Palavrić and Mr Vinko Zorić have been dismissed to justify their absence from today's session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to this session, you have received a draft agenda agreed by the College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I just want to say that before we move to the debate on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the College of Representatives is home, and that the extended College of this House has been informed, by considering the course of today's session, that it will be necessary if the assumptions are met, and I hope that it will, regarding the confirmation of the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint the Council of Ministers, and since one of the already appointed ministers and member of the College of Representatives of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be indicated, but we will not put it on the agenda, but thus I would like to inform you of the need to elect and members of the Assembly of the Croatian People's Parliamentary House of Representatives. 2 So much for the opening notes on the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the draft agenda you've been given. Here you go. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7108	Ladies and gentlemen, this plan you proposed and the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina predicts that in 12 years we reach a level before the war. It is unacceptable and should be told to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7109	And I thank you, Mr. Potočnik, but I have to admit that I didn't realize why this important thing you're talking about would apply to the agenda. We're having a debate on the agenda. But here's your right to come out for a pay phone. Come on, who wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Špirić Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7110	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished members of the outgoing Council of Ministers, the incoming Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, representatives of information funds. I have a proposal to correct the agenda, and now that I'm leaving one of the MPs toss, he says, and I would have picked up the bar if I had the agenda. Maybe people would have discussed it if they'd gotten the agenda in time. I appreciate that it was a short time from Friday to Monday for these extensive materials to be delivered to the MPs, to read them. Some who want to work responsibly and study so that we can have the productive work of Parliament. But it's neither the first nor the last time we make decisions without reading what's on our desk. Now that we've sat down, we've all got the agenda. We received a report on the work of the Council of Ministers on the 6th page, we received the opening presentation of the Council of Ministers, we received various reports, and it seems to me that it would really be inconclusive that today as Parliament we are working without reading any material. I can say that for myself because I got that material this morning, found it on the table. I don't think the others did it on Saturdays and Sundays, considering the conditions we're working on could win. In this regard, I propose that the first item of the agenda be removed, a report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002, for the reason that we have time to read the report and adopt it at the first regular session. We will not lose anything except that we will have time to prepare ourselves as MPs for the report. My second proposal is to remove the 9th item of the agenda, which is the appointment of three members of the House of Representatives in the Parliamentary Deletation of BiH to the Council of Europe. Namely, you know the procedure for selecting a joint delegation, that it is a joint delegation of both homes and the House of Peoples, that the House of Nations has not yet been established, that both colleges of both homes by procedure should establish criteria so that we can appoint a delegation. Unless we want to play old transparent schemes to choose a temporary delegation that will remain permanent. But I am so that we respect the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I ask that this item of the agenda be removed from today's session. 3 And I ask that the 10th item of the agenda be taken down is the proposal for a decision on the establishment of printing businesses of the state interest, because it is absolutely out of business even though the House of Peoples in which I chaired adopted this decision is not necessary for it to be discussed by the Representative Council. That decision is binding, but it has no form of law. And only laws in the same text adopt both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unless someone wants to become the law, and that is impossible for the decision to become the law. It is after the adoption of the House of Peoples that the institutions and authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina should adhere to those decisions that are not again, I warn, the legal force and I do not see the need to be the agenda point of today's session. And of course, we could discuss today the confirmation of the new composition of the Council of Ministers, these different consents of ratification and agreement, and thus effectively in my view to conclude the work of today's session, with me thinking that it is not good, it is not good that here and today we have a session, if we have been able to respect all the holidays of all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be good that we had this session on Saturday, I do not think we would have done anything wrong, and we could have ended it, but here, as it is scheduled today, I agree to work, but it is a warning to those who, first of all, decide on behalf of the Serbian people and ask in this assembly to account more, because not everything in Bosnia and Herzegovina honey and milk. We'll see about that very soon. And what I still want to propose as a new item of the agenda, and it seems to me that we have had materials or there were possibilities if there was no naked struggle for power and for sitting in the chair, that today we have received material and discussed the ORLU Report, an affair that has damaged both Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, unless there is a Japanese policy in this country. There seems to be only one institution here that we have to keep in the loop, and the state Parliament, for God's sake, doesn't matter at all. How is it possible that what concerns the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and peoples, that this parliament never feels that it first informs anything? Does anyone think it makes sense and needs, and that's why I won't ask to make a statement about it, but it seems to me that a good suggestion would be for the next session. And what would be good for us to discuss today is a form of personal data that the MPs received a month ago and I don't believe anyone has been able to fill out. How is it possible that all this is required of the MPs that no one should ask this parliament what it is for? I agree that there is a law of conflict of interest to be respected, but it seems to me that creating this form of personal data that goes into the tenth generation and when you ask your uncle's brother in America, give me the home number says you're not normal. Please open the debate to return the Administrative Commission to create a questionnaire that will be useful for the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest, not that everyone is building their own spy network in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we'll be building one service to God, and we'll have at least 20. And I don't know what needs this is for. I'd like the creator of the questionnaire to explain it to me. I have to say, I haven't been able to fill it in a month, and I don't know if I'm going to be there for the end of my term. But here are the other MPs. Maybe there are smarter people who have managed to finish it. But to fill out the questionnaire as requested, and not to have no number, I have no answer, in Los Angeles, not to have my aunt's brother, not to my aunt, not to my nana, not to my grandmother, not to my grandfather. I am therefore seeking today a point of the day to declare whether we will fill out this questionnaire or to create a questionnaire on the matter of the MPs and the dignity of the MPs. I'm not against respecting the law, but I'm against looking for information that nobody trusts doesn't serve and that's impossible to get. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7111	Okay. I thank Mr. Špirić. I would really ask, I did not interrupt Mr Špirić even though he went out of time of three minutes because he has several proposals that are related to the agenda. I must admit that it is also possible to present this many proposals in three minutes and I ask you to market the Rules of Procedure and the times provided for in the debate on the agenda. So much as one distraction to a business provision. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're moving on to a plea. We therefore have Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal to remove the 1st agenda from the agenda. I have to get to know the House of Representatives that from several clubs of this house came to me demanding that this item of the agenda be found on the agenda of today's session, because it is only possible that the author of this report present this report today. After today's act, this possibility no longer exists. And you got the material for this agenda item at the January 3, 2003 session. So, you got it on time here on the bench. But whatever it is, I am obliged to put Mr. Špirić's proposal on a plea, so I ask you who is so as to take point 1. A report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002 taken off the agenda of today's session? Who's that? Okay. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Give me the results. Like this. The results of the vote are as follows. For it was 13, against it was 13, abstention 13. Please, someone isn't, please, someone isn't, please just a little attention, please. So the motion to take off the agenda of this point didn't get the necessary majority in the House. We move on to Mr Špirić's second proposal. The proposal is therefore to remove the 9th agenda item, so the appointment of members of the House of Representatives to the parliamentary delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Council of Europe from the agenda. Before the plea, then, I'm obliged just to give one piece of service information. The regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will take place between 27 January and 31 January this year. We received a letter from the ambassadors of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Gaun, asking that this House, respecting the criteria that were in force for the election of this delegation, elect three members of this delegation to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina at a regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in January, so this month. That should be done by the 20th of this month. Today's session is actually an opportunity for that. At the session of the College and at the session of the Enlarged College, we have made appropriate preparations for which 5 of us will get to know you when this item is on the agenda, if it remains on the agenda. So this is necessarily the point needed for today's House of Representatives meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I say in this way we fulfil one of our obligations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to be presented at that session. But I'm obliged to put it to a vote. Who's to accept Mr. Špirić's proposal to take that point off the agenda? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's against the proposal to take this off the agenda? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? I find that the House of Representatives has spoken as follows on this matter. Out of 40 MPs, 13 voted in favour of Mr Špirić's proposal, 21 voted against and 6 were abstentions. I find the proposal has not received the necessary general parliamentary majority. We move on to Mr Špirić's next proposal. The proposal is to remove point 10 from the agenda the proposal for a decision on the establishment of printing operations from the state interest. You've made that decision. She was adopted by the House of Peoples. It takes care of the needs of the domestic graphics industry and speaks about the relationship between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the printing of documents of state interest and related to the needs and jobs of the Bosnia and Herzegovina graphics industry. So you know what this is about. I put Mr. Špirić's proposal to the vote. Who's to get this act off the agenda? Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7112	Speaking from the scene, no microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7113	Please, who's that? The vote is, don't, Mr. Špirić, I beg you. Who's to get this off the agenda? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. MPs who are restrained, please raise their charts. I declare that out of the 40 MPs present and who voted 12 voted in favour of Mr Špirić's proposal, and against 17, there were 11 abstentions. I find that the proposal did not win the general parliamentary majority. The following proposal by Mr Špirić, and this is the latest proposal, related to the discussion of that form that you received at the 23rd session of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is related to the determination of data relating to the Law on Conflict of Interest 6 which was received by all elected officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the general elections both by those elected to the legislative bodies of the authorities and by those elected to the executive authorities. I put Mr. Špirić's proposal to the vote. Who is it to accept Mr Špirić's proposal and, say, to say the last item of the agenda of today's session to discuss this form of personal data? Who's in? Thank you. Did you count the votes? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Give me the results. I'm publishing the results of the vote. Of the 40 MPs – 38 voted in favour – there was no one against, they were abstentions 2. I konstatuj that this agenda item was adopted on Mr Špirić's proposal as the 12th item of the agenda. After this, I find that the House of Representatives for the 7th session has established the agenda for today's session as follows: 1. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2002; 2. Confirming the appointment of the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the Council of Ministers, on a condition, I say, this point concerning the election of a member of the College will also appear; 3. Parliamentary questions and answers; 4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the BiH Criminal Law Proposal, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 5. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Code on Criminal Procedure under Article 104. Business: 6. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal for a witness protection law under threat and threatened witnesses under Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 7. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of parliamentary procedure under the proposed laws and other acts referred to in the previous call; 8. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Zlatko Lagumdžija's resolution, submitted at the 6th session of the House of Representatives; 9. Appointment of members of the House of Representatives to the parliamentary delegation of BiH to the Council of Europe; 10. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of public interest printing operations; 11. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Portugal on an exceptional improvement and protection of investments, (b) Protocol on combating illegal acts against the security of permanent platforms located in the epicontinental band, (c) Convention on the control of illegal acts against the security of maritime navigation, 12. Regarding the debate over the hearing we received from the Election Commission and which we are obliged, according to a letter from the Election Commission, to fill out, therefore, the agenda item adopted on the proposal of Mr Nikola Špirić. It's the agenda of today's session. 7 Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before the beginning of this session, we received one application from the BiH presidency members, to stop with the session for about ten minutes, and they want to appear here at the session. The college believes that the proposal is perfectly fine and that, based on the College's decision, I am giving a break of 10 minutes while members of the BiH presidency join us. Thank you. Dear guests, we are continuing the work of the 7th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] Meanwhile, we were joined by BiH Presidency Chairman Mirko Šarović, BiH presidency member Dragan Čović and BiH presidency member Mr Sulejman Tihić. I greet them. We keep working. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. A report by the BiH Council of Ministers for 2002 called on the submiter of the Council of Ministers' Report, namely the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Dragan Mikerević to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7114	Dearly respected BiH Presidency, respected working presidency, honourable MPs, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers submitted an annual report on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, more specifically to the House of Representatives and, I must say, in addition to these initiatives, the Council of Ministers sent our report to parliament before the New Year's Eve procedure and, on this side, we were sufficiently up-to-date. The report concerns the work of the BiH Council of Ministers in the period from 01.01.2002 to 31.12. of the same year. The House of Representatives, to remind the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, decided at a session held on 18 July 2001 to approve the appointment of Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija as BiH's chairman. At the same meeting of the House of Representatives, a decision was taken to approve the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija chaired the Council of Ministers until 15.03.2002, after which I took the post. In the period 01.01 to 31.12.2002, a total of 56 meetings of the Council of Ministers were held, of which 51 regular, 3 extraordinary and 2 working-consultative, which discussed issues from the section of the Council of Ministers' work, i.e. its ministries. The paper focused on establishing the legality, rule of law, independent judiciary, the construction of a decorupted state, the state administration, the return of refugees, and the establishment of a single economic space. A total of 1,181 points of the agenda have been discussed at sessions and appropriate decisions and conclusions shall be taken by them. During this period, the Council of Ministers of BiH sent 33 draft laws into parliamentary procedure, out of which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted 14, while 29 are in different stages of parliamentary procedure. 8 47 drafts, i.e. proposals for inter-state agreements and contracts, have been considered and adopted, set 51 basis for negotiating for the conclusion of agreements and contracts, and 7 initiatives and 2 annexes of the contract. Seven memos, four conventions, 3 notes, and 3 protocols were considered and accepted. The Council of Ministers of its responsibilities made 203 decisions and 2 instructions, and established 24 proposals for decisions, which were submitted to the BiH presidency in the follow-up procedure. Three platforms and 8 initiatives were considered and 177 information and 79 reports were accepted. 46 decisions on appointments and resolutions have been made. The Council of Ministers also identified a proposal to answer 32 delegates' questions and sent 90 parliamentary issues and one impelation to the BiH Parliament. The members of the Council of Ministers participated in a number of international meetings, including the Stockholm International Forum of Truth, Justice and Reconciliation, the 10th plenary session of the Council of Representatives of Siti-ef and 11th meeting of the International Conference on the Financing of Development in Mexico, the Ministerial Conference on Terrorism in the framework of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative, the Annual Meeting of the Committee of Governors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the International Fair in Izmir, the Ministerial Conference on Ageing in Berlin, the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Member States of the Convention on Banned Use, Storage, Production, Transfer of the Joint Mines of the Inland Mines, the Summit of Presidents of the Governments of the Central European Initiative in Skopje, the Fourth Annual Meeting of Members of the Convention on the European Union of the European Union in the European Union, the Conference of the European Union, the Conference of the European Union, the European Union's Conference of the European Union, the European Union's Conference on the European Union's Conference on the European Union, the European Parliament for the European Union's Conference for the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Parliament, the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council for the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, The work of this assembly of the Council of Ministers has passed in sync and constructive terms, and all decisions have been made in accordance with the Law, the consensus of all present members of the Council of Ministers. Reforms in the area of economy and rights have been launched and the document "Work and Justice" has adopted a framework for their continuation in the coming period to deal with the next Council of Ministers' meeting. The Law on State Service and the Law on Conflict of Interest has also been adopted as the basis for the construction of an untapped society, where businesses will be carried out professionally, efficiently, transparently and in the interest of all BiH citizens. A series of acts have been adopted to create a more favourable environment for increasing domestic production, increasing foreign direct investment, and a basis for export growth, goods and services. It is particularly important to highlight the adoption of the Memorandum of Foreign Trade for BiH for the accession of the World Trade Organisation, the Crice Tariff Act, the Veterinary Act, the Deposit Insurance Act, and a series of decisions aimed at protecting domestic production. Currency stability, a low inflation rate, and a significant reform of the banking sector in both BH entities has been maintained. In the framework of the adopted Global Framework for Economic Development of BiH, it is important to highlight the development of a strategy to combat poverty, whose adoption was planned already in March o.g. and adopted an action plan to remove administrative barriers to investment in BiH. 9 The regulation of the market, oil derivatives in BiH and decisions on the quality of liquid petroleum products will allow for the development of domestic capacities, which will have a positive impact on the budgets of both Bosnian Herzegovina entities, and have a significant anti-corruption fiscal and development dimension. The signing of the Stand-Bay arrangement with the IMF, we have defined the macro-economic policy, which is characterised by the conduct of cautious fiscal policy, the functioning of monetary policy on the principle of the Carens-Ibord, and structural reform. The BiH Court of Justice has been established and a set of rules has been adopted to allow its work to begin. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been admitted to the full membership of the Council of Europe, a first step towards membership of the European Union. The Council of Ministers made decisions in line with its commitments, 91 which would require full engagement and a new assembly of the BiH Council of Ministers and other institutions. The state border service has established control over the entire BiH border area. The CIPS project was successfully led to a phase when the first ID cards are issued to BiH citizens these days. The co-ordination team for economic development and European integration, chaired and chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, held seven sessions. The team was attended by members of the Council of Ministers and entity prime ministers and, if necessary, entity resolution ministers. The team has contributed to harmonisation of BiH and entity-level activities on all issues that are important for establishing a single economic space in BiH, as preconditions for throwing economic development, and necessary co-ordination on BiH's accession issues with European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Representatives of international financial organisations attended and participated in these sessions. Politically, it is important to highlight the process of reforming the political system, and the implementation of constitutional amendments, the adoption of the electoral law and the successful dispute of October elections show that BiH has seen a strengthening of the democratic spirit over the past period. The Council of Ministers gained credibility on the basis of which it developed the principle of partnership with the international community, as a strategic commitment by BiH to the Office of the High Representative in BiH in the form of a consulting partner forum, a permanent form of partnership work was established. A joint co-ordination team to monitor the implementation of the BiH institutions and entities' plan to prevent terrorist activity and actions has regularly submitted to the Council of Ministers information on monitoring the implementation of the plan of these activities. The Council of Ministers also made a clear definition of joining the Partnership for Peace, and in this direction contributed to the implementation of the tasks, which stem from this programme and which is, however, the highest authority of the BiH presidency. 10 The results achieved during the reporting period can be assessed successfully from the aspect of the implementation of established programme objectives, as well as out-of-programme activities from the work cycle of the Council of Ministers, ministries and institutions of BiH. That's our point of view. A high degree of co-operation and co-ordination of the Council of Ministers with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH presidency of both entities, as well as representatives of the international community, who are present in BiH, was reached during the reporting period. Addressing the problem of return, refugees and displaced persons was also one of the priorities in the work called the Council of Ministers, where significant progress has been made and where we currently have a return rate of implementation of property laws and demands more than 60%. Individual reports of the ministries, institutions and bodies of the BiH Council of Ministers for the reporting period, where you can learn more specifically about the work of individual ministries and what I want to say at the end that we have had special activities and successes to develop relations with the Brcko District, where we have also established communication and in this regard created conditions for the functioning of Bosnian-Herzegovina institutions throughout the BiH area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7115	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mikerević. I'm opening a debate. I invite you to participate in the debate. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word and Mr. Belkić followed it. Mr. Morankić Muhamed has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7116	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of fellow Members of Parliament and gentlemen of the future ministers, I have come out more in principle for this speaker at this point than to say anything about the content of this report, given that this report alone to this House can be informative and not a real report to be adopted. True in Article 5(4)(a) of the Constitution of BiH, in Article 135. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, among other things, are said that the BiH Council of Ministers for its work and responsibility for the implementation of the BiH Parliament's policies and decisions, set out in Articles 1, 4 and 5, submits a report to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption, as this time appears. I'm asking myself a question, and there's a problem here. What congregation? To the assembly that elected this council of ministers, the assembly that, along with that council of ministers, worked on the programme, agreed, followed his or her work, took or did not take measures to go all the way in this machine called the Council of Ministers? It's not said, so, come on. Since it wasn't told to who, and here's the new convulsion that accepts. So the concept of this report was supposed to be slightly different, in which you could see parallels from the report. What's this program project? What life has imposed, including the international community, including environments, imposed situations, etc. Who had to do the intervention, and then say what was done regularly, what was the emergency, how much needed to be done and how much could not be done and why could not be done? Such a report by an MP in this House, in a new assembly, can accept and make a scale of whether he is okay or not, whether the MPs could be done or not anymore, not to say that the report should have stood a little bit and what we sometimes say that we ourselves are a bit of a critic of what we didn't do and what we could have done. For this reason, I propose that the future be at a break-in period, and this is an 11 interestingly painful point in all the bodies of the council of municipal, cantonal to here the state parliament in the break-in is done. The question arises when we put to the vote today and say that this parliament does not accept this report. What are the sequences, what is the further process of bringing back these ministers to do something that they haven't done again, that something they haven't written well, etc. So when it's all put on paper and like a picture of a view, the report is a form. If it's a form, then he can only be informative and as such I can accept it as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7117	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word. Who else does? Mr. Jovanović Miloš, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7118	I welcome and honor all present. The Party for BiH MPs' club is one of those who insisted that today's session be presented to the House of Representatives a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past reporting period. So, we have insisted that today we have this report for several reasons, but we could not assume that the report, so to speak, will find out that the report today will be discussed five minutes before the session or ten when the calls are shared by table etc. Understanding these procedures, I should say, the ambiguities Mr. Moranjkić spoke of, there is another dimension of the wider Bosnianherzegovina public should be familiar with the rd of its highest executive bodies, so that this report can have that function and not only when it comes to the touch of the previous or current House of Representatives' House of Assembly. But here's our attitudes, when it comes to the report itself. We appreciate that he has a fundamental grudge, i.e. a fundamental weakness, which is a dry matter, so to speak, a civil report, which is a bit of a reminder of the reports of the local authorities. Therefore, the authorities leading the procedures in question, etc. It is burdened with a series of data as to how many attachments were received, how many items, memos, etc. which I don't think is appropriate to the highest executive body of a state. So, we think that the work report should relieve these kinds of data and even those data that speak about activities concerning the internal organisation, regulations, etc. that these are data that can be used internally within the Council of Ministers, and for the House of Representatives and for the public, this report, which is our basic observation, should provide indicators of such nature and such content, which clearly state what results have been achieved. What I mean is to be more specific. The report should state that at the beginning of the term of office or at the beginning of the report, or the reporting year, gross national income was so much, according to the population, the number of people so busy, so many, etc. that through certain reforms, through certain activities, through certain procedures at the end of the year, this is what happened, that we have this and that and that we have, in the end, the understandable results of the work of the Council of Ministers, because it is the state highest executive body. 12 So it is our suggestion that this report be free of these, so to speak, the dry facts, which do not reflect the actual result of the work without trying in an exact way to show the result or not the result, namely success or failure through these indicators that I was talking about. We also have an observation and a suggestion that, perhaps this report should have talked about another aspect, therefore, of what happened to ideas and initiatives or authentic activities within the Council of Ministers, which did not result in consensus, which did not result in solutions etc. For the sake of this, to be clear, it would be good to comment on why the BiH presidency's initiative on the country's original funding has not been realised. Why is no legal project on the property of the BiH state, etc. It was also necessary, perhaps, to explain what happened to the adopted budget rebalance for 2001, bearing in mind that the Succession Act that supported such a rebalancing was not adopted in such a form and in such content, so the question is what happened to that rebalancing, after all, as it was concluded. And finally, we will support this report with these remarks and propose that the Council of Ministers, while still in this capacity, no matter what elections and new ones will happen today, etc. to make it public, available, possibly through its website or through the means of informing BiH citizens who will try to figure out what this government has done, or this council of ministers in the previous meeting. In any case, we will support the report with these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7119	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Jovanović Miloš has a word. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Križanovićnek is getting ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7120	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I also agree, the question is whether this report should be in this assembly today, so we have old ministerial advice, new MPs and what if it is not adopted, but well, when it is on the agenda, then it is certain that something should be said about the work of the Ministerial Council so far. My general remark is, they seem to have been too obedient. I see there were a lot of quality people, who may have been independent, could have done a lot more. Probably because of that obedience, they did not regain the trust of the people. I'm not saying that maybe this Council of Ministers won't be followed. I see that the principle of moral-political resemblance is reintroduced, that some people who don't like someone can't be where they're proposed, but about that. I will, in short lines, make my remarks on, and my opinion and suggestions on every monistry, meaning all six ministries, and maybe it'll be some suggestion and future ministerial advice, if they think it should be accepted. In particular, as regards the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I do not think the issue of the return and status issue of Srbin refugees from Croatia has been resolved. Not to explain it too much, I think it's clear and that's to say one of the problems that hasn't been solved, because now they're in other people's houses and they can't go back from where they came from and now it's to say 13 one of the problems and the other question is pensions and health insurance returnees, because I was a member of the Human Rights and Refugee Commission and wherever we were to say it was put first, whether it was the returnees of any nationality. As for the ministry of the vault, I don't think the issue of foreign savings has been resolved, I mean primarily at the Ljubljana Bank, and in the end other banks in the former Yugoslavia, where BiH citizens have savings. At the Ministry of European Integration, I think the question is now whether or not the ministry should have done so at all, because apparently it is not there now, I think that it, I say, has done its job. It was imagined to me well, but that a little has been done, in particular, that some 13 projects were envisaged in BiH in the framework of, normally, the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, whose value was supposed to be around 505m euros, of which, it means, 241m are realised through the Fast Start Pact, and it was phase two and stage three, and then BiH's participation in projects that have a regional character of 363m euros, so the question is raised. How implemented are these projects and perhaps at what stage, if anyone has information? As for the foreign ministry, I will say that the largest spot in its work this ministry has had by firing Darko Trifunović, the first secretary of the BiH mission to the UN in New York. I wouldn't want much if, allegedly not a BiH citizen, later proved that he was and likely the court will prove who was right. Also, I think that there was insufficient co-operation with the BiH presidency and I think that it should have been done, maybe it should now also do an analysis of the work and necessity of some ministries, or not the ministries, but the DKP, because we know that there is a major deficit in foreign trade, all to the detriment of BiH. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, I think, in the domain of this ministry, are activities to monitor and combat the most serious crimes and organised crime, such as terrorism, rose trade, human trafficking, illegal immigration, drug trafficking, theft and trafficking in illegal cars, economic crime, etc. The question arises whether the ministry has fulfilled its basic task in this area. At the Ministry of Foreign Trade of Economic Relations, I think it was necessary to check that some countries that signed a free trade agreement between BiH and those countries are sticking to it. There are some countries that still have protective fees for some products, and I think it was necessary to verify the overfishing and protection fees for all products in order to protect domestic production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7121	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Jozo Križanović has a word. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7122	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the BiH Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, 14 Provo I would like to fully agree with the remarks made by colleagues Moranjkić and Belkić in formal and essential procedures. So, starting from that, in order for the report to be more conceptually done, I will remain only on that note and I would like to say more about the core assessment of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers in the past year and, of course, that period cannot be segregated from the previous 2001, because it represents one end of the Council of Ministers' work in the previous meeting. The evaluations I would like to make, I would like us to understand not as neither praise nor criticism to the current Council of Ministers but rather to draw essential assessments of the current situation in BiH, in order to see these strategic directions for the further development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to point out that the current Council of Ministers has had great restrictions in its work, primarily in the area of the constitutional and legal framework, so rich and political and security situations at the time of arrival. Taking into account all this, the assessment of our SDP BiH club is that, with these remarks on the report, we can give a positive assessment of the work of the Council of Ministers for the following reasons. First, there has been a significant dynamicization of work in all aspects of society, social life in BiH. P... are fundamental reforms in the area of law and economy, BiH's dignity and international credibility have been affirmed. Enough has been done to affirm democratic behaviour in BiH and mutual cooperation between BiH institutions, as well as inter-entity co-operation. We believe that there are fundamental preconditions for strengthening security in BiH, a developed and affirmed partnership with the international community and have been adopted, I would say, strategic documents in the area of economic development and the fight against poverty. Of course, all of this has not been completed, there has been no time for some of these significant reform procedures to come to life and the results in BiH. So, we can evaluate this as a good basis for further activity, but in any case it represents a good, good route and a good course to continue the future council of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7123	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word. Who else wants to talk? Nobody's answering any more. Okay, thank you. Mr. Ćeman, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7124	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of the Census, distinguished guests, I, of course, initially asked to download the report, taking into account what my colleagues said about the purpose of Parliament if we discussed this report, aside from not having the opportunity to get acquainted with this report in detail, so this seems to me to be like that folk report that this report is like writing hooks on ice. Someone asked what the consequences were if the report wasn't adopted. It's like it's gonna be the first time. So the House of Peoples didn't adopt a six-month report on the work of the Council of Ministers, so people did their job because they don't even account for Parliament like they won't. So here is the question of what Parliament is and what is the purpose of considering this report. But it is so, and it seems to me that the ambience in which the Council of Ministers worked was quite complex and the hand on the heart had also good things that were done and there were many good things that were done when it came to this Council of Ministers meeting as there were, of course, mistakes and what I saw was that 15 would have been good if the author of the report had looked back a little on the objective and subjective weaknesses faced by the Council of Ministers in the past meeting. It wasn't ideal, of course, and they were saying that they wanted to be partners with the international community, and that came, I'd say, heads. The international community does not want partners she wants obedient and those who have been obedient are now the continuity of the authorities and those who wanted to be partners they must now from the opposition to learn and will be in BiH for a long time, until we realize that this is our country in which it is good to fight in the interests of the citizens and the people and that it is not good to seek agreement where they do not want to hear you and where you are merely physically present. That's why I think, according to this report and the next Council of Ministers meeting, there will be a lot of objective and subjective problems and it will be very difficult to make the desired step. What I miss about this report, and I want to go back a little bit is the mistakes that cost BiH. I spoke of it in the House of Peoples, I warned, and it seems to me that, here I will return you to the report on the work of the Ministry of Treasury of BiH, that this council sold gold reserves beyond Parliament's decision and damaged BiH in excess of 20 million marks, and that is what would be good to record without political bickering whether there were grounds or not, if the Law on the distribution of the funds of the succession was subsequently adopted. So, I would like it to be in the report, but since many people think that the report here with these different data, I have to say that I understand the amibient in which the Council of Ministers worked, that we, as a state parliament, didn't actually get the strength, or the House of Representatives, to adopt the law on BiH statistics, so here's what it was about some data that didn't, let't, let's say, work on some valid data, again someone would comment on where this or that data came from. So we ourselves as MPs, those who worked in the last session, were involved in creating such or such an environment for the work of the Council of Ministers. However, in any case, I congratulate my colleagues who worked in the last session for having the strength to welcome the end of the term of office and it seems to me that on the work of the Council of Ministers it was best said at the press conference last or last chair Mr Mikerević, when he said the greatest reach, that is, the crucial result of the Council of Ministers' work is to cultivate a good atmosphere, so someone malicious could ask if it was a society for the care of the atmosphere or the Council of Ministers, but what is there. I think this report will be found, as will a number of other reports, in the archbishop, and it is good that it exists, but as MPs, we must not run away from what our work costs BiH and its taxpayers materially. We have long debated the use of concession funds and the Council of Ministers has, by some decision, covered the sale of gold reserves, thereby causing damage, but it would be good to find it in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7125	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman has his word. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7126	My colleagues and colleagues, I voted for this point to be considered today at this session for a simple reason, which, if nothing because of what we will hear in the opening exposé of the current, current Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, which we hope to confirm, would be good to hear what their predecessors had to say, if for nothing else, and what, among other things, is due to statistics that are good for analysis. 16 Since this point has come suddenly on the agenda, and I agree it can be asked the question of the completeness of the dispersion at all when we are not even... whose work we evaluate, simply because of the selection of the net held, leaves the political scene in this property, the property, therefore, those who account for this Parliament, I will point to several things that I believe should be pointed out on this occasion, i.e. agreeing that it was better that we had more time and that this is another occasion. In addition to what my colleague Špirić pointed out, and I have recorded to myself here that, therefore, I am finding one thing, and that is that the Council of Ministers in the past brought us together through some of their decisions, as a state cost us, and that should be said during the droneling of their report. Thus, in addition to the part about the sale of gold from reserves, or gold obtained under the Succession Agreement, the Council of Ministers is very important in the area of human rights, i.e. some bodies, i.e. the ministry, and entity decisions that BiH and its citizens have cost and will cost a certain amount of funds. It should, therefore, draw from this lesson, so whatever happened in the last term can go to the souls of those who have decided on it, there should be suggestions that, eventually, will decide in the future on similar things this is a lesson and not enter into that domain of human rights violations. We heard and I agree with the assessment that the State Border Service has advanced in its work. The entire or almost entire formal border area of BiH is covered. However, neither this Council of Ministers nor the entity government, I am sure that neither we can be fully satisfied with what has been done for the reasons that all chorus repeats and repeats that still significant quantities, especially high-tariff goods, are illegally entering the BiH area and thus affecting the position of domestic producers, therefore, of those goods that can be produced and produced here as well as of the overall economic relations in BiH. Therefore, we have reason in truth, in addition to the satisfaction that the State Border Service is well established or established throughout the area. So we have, too, reasons to be dissatisfied with the overall effects and results, which, of course, we would all support here together that I'm better and that's why I'm mentioning this part here. At the beginning of the mandate of the last Council of Ministers, we had assurances, and in particular a political group, which, based on the parliamentary majority, confirmed that BiH will see progress in international representation and in protecting human rights, namely that BiH citizens, as citizens, will be able to travel with respect to the world and there will be fewer barriers, especially for those who want to try both their economic and other abilities on the world market. Unfortunately and lethemic, here is a view in front of several embassies in BiH and citizens who hate each other these days in front of these embassies that, if nothing of the formal part of the work is done, it has not even been confirmed that these people, if they can't travel anywhere without visas, have nothing of human terms while waiting in line in front of the German, Austrian and I don't know which embassy here. It's literally a shame that what these people survive waiting on the street in the park, etc. I have asked in the form of a parliamentary question what can and what could possibly have been done, if not, of course at visa waiver, because others decide to at least in each other's contact with the competent authorities of the respective states, the conditions under which people wait for these visas to be as effective. 17 In the end, I would point to two more things that, therefore, I am not satisfied with in this current term of office when it comes to the Council of Ministers' activities. Bosnia and Herzegovina has concluded an agreement with the Republic of Croatia after years of preparation in the field of labour, or social security, although I know that in the final phase, if I am not mistaken, the talks or the pension disability insurance agreement with SR Yugoslavia has already been initialled. I have not noticed enough activities both in the State by the Council of Ministers and at any other level to speed up procedures in the competent authorities of the countries with which these agreements are, in particular the pension insurance agreement, therefore, as effectively as possible. Still, let's say a few months later, here's how many years after the agreement with Croatia, people didn't get the instruments of recognition of pension rights, etc. I know that they also decide on this under an agreement concluded by the competent authorities of those countries in the area of pension-inhabitation, but it is never too much, it is never too much of an emergency, demands, asked that from the level of foreign ministers so from the level of human rights ministers, so from the level of some others, here even the BiH Presidency, which, therefore, is not excluded and should not be excluded from the talks on this topic. In the end, then, I might still be doing this, too, I decided to point out those things that I noticed that could or should have been better. I agree that there were things that meant progress and it would be correct to say that. However, I would like to point out another fact, which is in the area of foreign trade has been concluded and here we gave a positive view at last session on the conclusion of an external trade agreement, etc. with some states. It seems that some of the solutions, which have been regulated to the soul by sublegal acts, in the area of foreign trade, here is counterpart Hadžiahmetović, in some respects almost adjudicated or made it difficult to expect the conclusion of these agreements, i.e. the law on external trade. In particular, I am referring to the case where they are based on legitimate requirements for import records for export purposes and on that basis the exemption from customs duties, etc. However, it seems to have been developed, at least that's what I've been told by those who are operating on these businesses, etc. to this extent, the operation is agreed that very often, it is almost actuating the positive effects of the external trade co-operation agreement with other countries, i.e. the Foreign Trade Act. I, therefore, would like, with these several critical remarks, of course, that, as many as they are now in the debate, there will be different views, whether or not, if nothing makes these remarks and these suggestions certainly for the future Council of Ministers by reason that at least in this area I pointed out to try to do more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7127	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Sead Avdić has his word. Who else? There's no further. So after Mr. Avdić, we will conclude the debate. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7128	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, respected members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, also, I would like to say a few words and join these critical intonations about the Council of Ministers' reports, so that we can simply take a more serious look at and look at what has simply been in the proposal for the next four years and also give an assessment of what has been going on over the past two years. I, however, must point out one fact that methodologically in the end this report is not badly done and can be accepted, it is statistically illustrated enough, so I see no reason for any aggressive criticism of such a methodologically well-placed report. I would like to give this report a few lessons for the future Council of Ministers, and that is my goal of this discussion, and that is to say, what it is, was probably a narrow constitutional and legal framework for the functioning of the Council of Ministers in the past term and from the aspect of the establishment of the Co-ordination Team for Economic Development, the Anti-Terrorist Team, etc. It would be necessary to return it to the institutions of the system, conditionally said, in the existing constitutional and legal framework and, simply, in accordance with the new law on the Council of Ministers to try these institutions that have functioned over the past two years, simply return to the Council of Ministers in terms of resolution ministries. That's one of my suggestions. Secondly, it was formed, also, a Consultative Partner Forum where the material says, decidently quotes. The Council of Ministers created credibility based on which it developed the principle of partnership for the international community as a strategic commitment of the state. I think that, however, this sentence, this view is not objective to the end, that it is pre-mimitated, that it is simply so set that it does not reflect what has been happening in the past two years, which means to develop truly to the end correct with a lot of political and moral dignity of relations between the BH authorities, or the Council of Ministers and the international community and, normally, all other BiH authorities, which means that we are still not at this level that we can give this assessment and I think this is just beginning, just one period of functioning and action in partnership with the international community, I repeat again, raising and preserving the GDP institutions and BH authorities of BiH and the Council of Ministers and Parliament of BiH. So, the consultation partner forum would be good and necessary to determine today's Parliament and the Council of Ministers that, simply, how it intends to function in the next four years. The reference to, in view of the sale of gold, etc. I propose that it be resolved by calling on the BiH Institutions' Audit Office to give its assessment of what happened from the aspect of the sale of gold over the past two years and the Council of Ministers has left us with several documents. I would point out only one, and that is, above all, a document on the protection of domestic production. We were scheduled to hold the thematic session of this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. However, we have not received this document and I think the new assembly of the House of Representatives is, faced with the need and necessity of discussion on such a subject and I propose this thematic session of the House of Representatives. Finally, however, it is necessary to be honest and thank the Council of Ministers for this meeting, started structural reforms, began to change the macroeconomic economic environment, and in this context did a lot, simply over the past 24 months, to improve conditions, above all, life in BiH and, simply, to change the political environment in BiH. I, as one of the chairmans of the previous House of Representatives, thank them for their co-operation so far. Good luck. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7129	I thank Mr. Avdić. I'm closing the debate. I didn't see you. All right, Mr. Lozančić, here's another one of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7130	Ladies and gentlemen, let me say hello to you and I, I must say when, here we are today discussing information and the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the past period, I cannot share the evaluations of the new predecessors, as regards the purpose of today's debate on this material, so if we see this table at which members of the Council of Ministers sit, I don't know how much it makes sense now to assess whether and what they did in this past period, because here are the books of three letters of opportunity. I know exactly where they are, but I'm talking now as someone submits a report, and here I am looking at these people sitting here and they're reporting to us and the rest of them sitting at this table are discussing the report. That's one thing. But here I am also to contribute to the assessment of this past time, first of all, and then through this and the work of the Council of Ministers, I cannot and cannot recall a time in which this council of ministers slanted on the political stage of BiH, offering one overall improvement to all BiH, while not taking over the power by trampling out the brutal half-doctory will of one of the three constituent peoples. I thought it would be a good contribution to ensure that this council works much easier, much more efficiently and much better, so that this people, whose political will has been ignored, will provide much better conditions for life and prevent, or create assumptions that much less and members of other peoples leave BiH in the meantime. If the exact evaluations are from the exposé that we are going to discuss after this point, then the current chairman of the Council of Ministers and I want to believe that they are, we are talking about a high unemployment rate, and it would be interesting that my predecessors said we have parallel indicators. What was the rate two years ago, what was it today. There is talk of a high rate of poverty in BiH, it would be interesting to see parallel indicators that we know of movements as they are. However, we defacto today and do not have a report by the Council of Ministers but have a collection of ministry reports, with a brief introduction, the opening remarks of the Council of Ministers chairman. In the exposé that we will have today by the Council of Ministers chairman, we have the exposés of the Council of Ministers where there are no ministers. Because we have the Council of Ministers and we are here to discuss the Council of Ministers' report, not each of these ministries in the Council of Ministers. Perhaps if we had an individual report from the ministries, we might be well-determined about the work of a ministry, about a bad one, etc. We are now in a dilemma about how to assess something that is formally called a report on the work of the Council, and in fact it is just a complex mechanical set of ministry reports. I have to say that I also expected that in the past period, at least it is so important to ensure this famous partnership relationship with the international community, but today in the time we live, we see that we seem much further than we were two years ago, because many colleagues who discussed this issue have agreed with the assessment that we are now far from any partnership that has been announced. 20 The economic stability is sufficiently announced by the social explosion, here early next year as a New Year's gift to the new Council of Ministers, so I don't need to talk too much about it, because the grades are given daily by workers on the streets looking for a piece of bread. Unfortunately, the return of the refugees, exiled, is said to have been made. However, too many framework forms are being given. I expected it to be much more precise than what it is, and the security situation in BiH and six years after Dejton is best spoken by our past session and our future session, because we sought and concluded that we were in a hurry to discuss the security situation in the BiH area. Not likely because it's good, but because we all thought it was very bad. So, all in all, this report, I only appreciate this information as a good basis for the work of the future Council of Ministers to know, from which position Mr. Terzić and the new Council of Ministers are entering into a new election period and that we all know what is ahead of us and that I expect and in this House of Representatives to make a lot more effort to make what the predecessors promised, we try to meet this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7131	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words. So, after my conclusion, two more debaters. Is there anyone else who wants to talk about this?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7132	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, colleagues, members of the Presidency, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, for the discussions that have been highlighted here in the debate on the report, particularly concerning the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and to try to give a few answers, i.e. comments on the discussions that have been made. A colleague Avdić mentioned the past 24 months. I just want to correct the past 21 months. So, the Council of Ministers has not worked for two years and I think it is very important to understand also in the context of the discussion that has been led here on the report and which will eventually be led. kolega Špirić mentioned that the Council of Ministers was not to cultivate a good atmosphere. I do, indeed, agree, but also fellow Špirić, who was in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, will remember the good atmosphere in which the Council of Ministers and the atmosphere in which this Council of Ministers' meeting worked, so I would just like to remind you briefly that, when this Council of Ministers began, somewhere at the beginning of the term of office last March 2001, here we are all talking about the economic and social situation. At the state level, there were 3 or 4 economic laws, i.e. laws that regulated the economic problem, which talked a lot about how many countries had instruments, i.e. the Council of Ministers and State Departments in the area of economic and social policy to change the situation by 21 months. I would just like to remind myself that, unfortunately, and if the report on the one-year term, or one-year period, might be better if the entire mandate had been sent to the parliamentary procedure only for 21 months from the Ministry of Foreign Trade alone, and for the most part 23 laws were passed, or 19 new laws and 4 amendments to the law, or existing laws in the procedure. 21 Furthermore, I would like to mention that my colleague Jovanović mentioned the issue of prelemance, protective tactics, etc. in order to protect domestic production. Make sure the countries with whom we have an external trade contract are terminated. I would just like to mention that free trade has been concluded in accordance with the European norms and standards of VTO rules which do not recognise the advances, and that was also the key reason why this Council of Ministers' meeting and the previous assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act that abolished the transfers, i.e. to the complex customs tariff. Furthermore, a similar observation, namely in Mr. Ćeman's discussion, mentioned that in the area of foreign trade some solutions have made it difficult to carry out such activities under the law. Imports for export purposes, which is said to be behind the speaker here, is a tailored operative, actuating the positive effects of the Free Trade Agreement. I, unfortunately, must mention that it's a good thing this operation is in place. It might be good for us to trust all importers, free all importers from customs payments only on the word that the goods they produce will be manufactured on other markets. However, this was exactly the area, which was also analysed by CAFAO and other organisations that supervised customs business and international trade operations, which was recorded, just as an area where speculation in the area of international trade was made possible and thus budgets were damaged at all levels in the BiH area. So, at all levels of government in BiH. Furthermore, I would not agree that this, that the positive effects of the Free Trade Agreement have been animated, because I would like to remind you again, if we are talking about our membership in the World Trade Organisation, if we are to implement a memorandum on the liberalisation of trade through initiatives such as. Stabilize the pact in accordance with the European First VTO rules, etc. then we need to know that this includes respect for the rules on the origin of goods, European harmonised VTO standards, etc. And I think it's good to have that in mind in future activity, especially in this area, because it's going to be more profiled than it has been in the last two years. Mr. Ćeman also mentioned, to the soul, more apostrophe of this visa regime, that the report lacks what BiH has done to improve its position in international flows or its membership, etc. I want to remind you and here I speak on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which has been participated by eight laws on the so-called An economic package of Rod-map laws that were a prerequisite for our membership in the Council of Europe, whose member we became at the time of the Council of Ministers' summonment. Furthermore, after a long time, one of the few countries in Europe, I remind you, only BiH and Yugoslavia are still not members of the VTO, we have begun the negotiation process for membership in the VTO. To begin the negotiation process, it took a lot of work to do. Furthermore, in the field of civil aviation, we have become a full member of the European Civil Aviation Conference and a procedure has been launched for our full membership in Eurocontrol, which is also approved. Furthermore, we are on the list of OIEJ countries, the International Organisation in Paris, which allows, of course, some other jobs in the area to be dealt with by BiH with the OIEJA list on imports, and especially for BiH, important future exports of products of animal origin and something else and if we are from earlier members of the VAJPO International Organisation that regulates the area of industrial rule, standards, etc. in this area in the previous year and a few days, much has been done for BiH in the area of protection of industrial 22 ownership, industrial property, copyright, etc. It works like other countries, not only in Europe, but in the world. I would like to remind you that this is a very important environment for the future activities of BiH's accession to the World Trade Organisation membership. There have been several other remarks that could have been brought into the context of the Ministry of Foreign Trade's engagement and, with one note, that the contribution to this report is the contribution of the report on the work of five state institutions, which has been coordinated, that is, by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which will probably be deployed in some other ministry in part, but of particular importance for understanding the strengthening of state institutions and not only institutionalally but also legislatively and in any other respect, particularly important for the period to come. I, with special satisfaction, was able to see, in a summer review of Mr. Terzić's mandate, that he had managed two very important things, on which the Council of Ministers worked, this document "Work and Justice" in that short-term definition to say the priorities and the operatives necessary to do the future council of ministers' assembly and especially for the period, the medium-term period until 2006, a development strategy, a document that is in the final phase, known as PIERESPI, and I will indeed be pleased that the future Council of Ministers' meeting is managed in operational matters, which was founded by this Council of Ministers' Assembly, was independent of any coordination with other institutions, consultation with other parties, parliamentarians with the international community, etc. I want in that sense a lot of success and a future convocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7133	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. And come on, it doesn't make any sense the third time I'm done, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7134	The esteemed members of the Presidency and Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed colleagues, I am now to clarify the capacity of the still foreign minister, because there have been several conflicting issues and even Mr. Lozančić insisted that it be answered. He expected some to sit here, so in that context, I just want to say a few short words. I do not want to take the floor of Mr Mikerević, he is current for this council of ministers in which I am sitting in the chair and he will certainly find reasons or assess whether he should tell himself about the whole of what is left behind, such as the document "Work and Justice" such as the accompanying conditions for the Council of Europe, the Partnership for Peace, a very clear and precise road after the end of the rod mep that goes towards the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, and I will not talk about it, so to speak, the large images relating to the whole of the Council of Ministers, but Mr Lozančić, I am obliged to remind you, not to enter the controversy with you about your finding that this Council of Ministers worked without the support of a whole nation, that is rhetoric that you had two years ago, and you have solved the problem so-so-called six months ago. the StendBaygovernment with which this Council of Ministers and the Federal Government has entertained for more than six months, at the end of which you, or your president, publicly said that what you were doing was your big mistake. Now that big mistake of yours we've been having fun for a long time and there's no need to talk about it any further, I guess. 23 But now as foreign minister, I only owe the order of the charter to say that every remark made by an MP is required by the minister to respond to it. I therefore answer to you, Mr Jovanović, the two remarks you have made, or suggestions, two or three, depending on how you treat them. First, your assessment that it was a weak co-operation with the BiH Pedicate. I do not think it stands, when it comes to the past meeting of the BiH presidency and there has been an assessment of the previous BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers' call on co-operation to be very successful and that is something that, I say, the presidency has been measuring to assess when it comes to the foreign ministry. It gave, with all the problems that were in operational work, so that your grades don't stand. With this Presidency, it is perfectly natural that co-operation has not been established properly because it has been done in a technical capacity that is similar to the Minister of Foreign Affairs who knows that it is leaving. She was as normal as it was to be between the political profile that I advocated the political profile representing this presidency. So, I'd like to ask you to understand that it doesn't stand as one. The second thing, as regards the reduction of the DKP you talked about, there is a need, and this is very clearly said in the budget when we last spoke about the adoption of the budget, it was said that the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this year and the Presidency proposed it as such and proposed to the Assembly with the knowledge that it should reduce the DKP network from a minimum of three DKPs in the first phase and were already defined which, at the Bureau, is to accept it or not accept the order to do so or not do so. It is clear as a day that the DKP network will have to be reduced, and this is the proposal of the outgoing Ministerial Assembly, namely the foreign minister, and by accepting this budget, the presidency has practically given the green light for such a thing. These are the two remarks you had, and as for the biggest stains, as you said Mr. Darko Trifunović's case, I most sincerely thank you for your assessment that this is the biggest stain we've ever had. I'm treating it with a bright spot, so you can think of something like that with a stain, and I thank you most honestly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7135	Thank you. Is that a replica, Mr. Lozančić? Short of a replica. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7136	Well, I didn't mean nothing by the fact that there are three of us sitting here and somewhere else three and I don't know whether I'm replicating Mr. Lagumdžija as a representative in this House or as a foreign minister or if I don't know as something else or as head of the former government in BiH. But here in all these functions I'll say a few things. Mr. Lagumdžija, you'd be much smarter if you'd been dealing with your mistakes, you'd probably have left us a much better state today than you said you were dealing with our mistakes, that's one thing. The second thing is the fact and statistics show that you, your council of ministers, have confirmed in this house against the will of six Croatian MPs and with one vote of Croatian MPs, it is a fact, it is statistics, and you have also established the government against the will of more than 85% of the citizens of Croatian nationality in BiH, but you have done so and let it serve you honor, but these are facts. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7137	Jovanović Miloš replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7138	Dear Presidency, I said the court would probably say if this was a stain, as far as firing Mr. Trifunović's job is concerned, or should I say that plus the foreign ministry. As for the, uh, co-operation with the predsjedništvo, I think the current presidency can say what co-operation was, regardless of what you're still the current foreign minister. These people were chosen and you probably should've worked with them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7139	Thank you. As far as I can see, there are no more interested in the discussion. Then I close the debate and we move on to a plea. We are obliged to make a statement about this report, so I invite you to approach the plea act. I ask the MPs who is to adopt this report by the Council of Ministers? Did you count it? Thank you. I ask the MPs who are against adopting this report. Thank you. I ask the messengers who is restrained? Thank you. Now give me the results to see where we are. Of the 38 MPs in the hall, 15 voted in favour – 14 against – 9 were abstentions. So, the report received a general parliamentary majority. We're going for a statement on the entities. I ask MPs from the Federation of BiH who is in favour of this report? Thank you. I ask the MPs of the RS who is for this report? Thank you. Give me the results. By entities, the situation is like this. He's from the Federation in 10 and there's one third. It's six from the RS, and there's one third. I understand that this House has adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2002, and that ended the first item of the agenda. Mr. Mikerević will only be a short while because we're going to the next points.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7140	On behalf of the previous Council of Ministers of BiH, I would like to thank all of you for the adopted report and, at the same time, to say that we are satisfied with the debate with the suggestions, the remarks, there have been mistakes and we admit it, but surely neither you nor the citizens of BiH doubted the good intentions of this council of ministers who has been here for 21 months. What I can say is, perhaps, methodologically needs to change the way we report, because we did not report on the situation of certain areas, but on our work and, secondly, what I did not seem to have in mind is a set of competences and responsibilities of this council of ministers, where I am some things that are said here are not us address but are entity governments. With that, indeed, thank you for the adopted report, and if I didn't expect you to adopt it, I must admit it, that's what I told the press when they asked me what the conventions were like. I said nothing. It may be 25 just one stain, but even if they say it's not good to be an exception and it is an exception in this case, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7141	I thank you, too, Mr. Mikerević. I'm going to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. Confirming the appointment of Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, to submit the exposés.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7142	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, your Excellency, dear guests and representatives of the information funds, at the meeting of this House held in 23.12.2002, I submitted a political framework for the next four-year term and promised to submit an exposé to the Council of Ministers. This council of ministers is fully aware of the country's political, economic and social status. Our main goal is to improve this situation so that BiH safely moves through European integration, economic and social reforms, complete the transition process and become a country governed by European standards. I took over as chairman of the Council of Ministers at a time when unemployment is about 40%. The high poverty rate is about 20% for the whole country, which means that every fifth BiH resident, according to international standards, is poor. The social protection system barely works, pensions and, if more regularly, they are low and cannot meet the needs of pensioners who are the most vulnerable category of society. The lack of funds is causing less and less satisfaction with the rights of the fighters, the disabled, the Sheikhs and the families of the victims of the war. About half a million BiH residents are still out of their pre-war homes. According to the 1996 IMF and World Bank forecasts, Bosnia and Herzegovina was expected to reach the pre-war level of gross national income last year. The fact is that we are only halfway through, because our gross product is about $1200 per capita and it is obvious that the biggest causes of economic stagnation, besides the consequences of war, lies in the slow realisation of reform and political instability. Since the end of the war, Bosnia and Herzegovina has reportedly left more than 90,000 people, including, unfortunately, the most young. Polls show that about two-thirds of Bosnia and Herzegovina's young people do not see their perspective here and want to leave the country. The main reason is to cite unemployment, a weak education system, the inability to solve housing problems, and a weak impact on social movements. From the above, it is unequivocal that the Council of Ministers' task as executive authorities at all levels is an urgent improvement in the standard of living of citizens and the opening of new brighter perspectives so that young people and other BiH citizens can do so. 26 In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to significantly improve the business environment, thus opening up the possibility of a large number of new jobs. So, the authorities will no longer provide jobs, but will allow business people to open businesses in a much easier and more efficient way, employees to operate successfully. The improved social protection system will allow the most vulnerable categories of the population to live a decent life in a transitional period. I would particularly like to underline here the concern of young people about the future of BiH is mostly not meant when it comes to endangered categories, and I believe they are. We will help them improve their education system by addressing practical schooling problems, but also by encouraging faster enforcement of their housing problems. I hope that we will welcome the end of our term in an atmosphere in which young people of BiH experience their homeland and which gives them enough to meet their standards and ambitions. Idogovoriti make a deal with my colleagues, which is the best way to do it. I am considering the possibility for the Council of Ministers to appoint an assistant who would be in charge to deal with this issue on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Old domestic investors and business people face a number of investment barriers daily, and especially for business registration, it still takes several weeks and even months. There is no single economic space, the degree of corruption and organised crime is very high. The private sector's participation in the country's gross product is still low and with about 40% is the lowest in the region. Tax evasion and fraud, state and citizen relations, huge assets. Privatisation has not produced the desired results so far, the growth rate is not projected. This council of ministers, and I believe the entity governments in the new assembly, are aware of the need for aggressive implementation of reforms, which can change the current situation quickly and radically. I am sure most citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina support and expect it from us. I am witnessing the growing impatience of citizens who are increasingly publicly expressing dissatisfaction to strengthen the threat of social unrest. I believe that it has matured the belief of all political forces in society that there is no longer time to calculate and hesitate and that reforms, no matter how painful they have no alternative. That is why members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are in charge of my ability and courage to deal with the situation. I expect that they are aware and will accept responsible functions only if they are ready for the challenges they face. I'm a moderate optimist, and I'm building my optimism on some assumptions that I consider a solid foundation and that will get my upgrades. Macro-economic stability is a major potential stimulant for foreign investment, but in itself it is not enough. The fixed budget position has been stabilised, public revenues have increased, indicative harmonisation of the country's tax system has been done. The financial sector, especially the banking sector, has been strengthening the whole country. Bosnia and Herzegovina has managed to interest a number of foreign investment banks in which we are first in the region. The capital market has been manufactured, the Payments Office has been abolished, and it is successfully implemented through our business banks. Finally, Bosnia and Herzegovina has joined the development strategy for the whole country. The work includes domestic forces, government structures, civil society, private sector, scientific workers and many others. This is an indicator of the significant human resources we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I expect to complete my work on this large project in the first half of this year, and I will personally advocate myself. This Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina together with entity governments has a clear goal. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a European country integrated into the EU and a global economy much more than it is today. The transformation of the economy depends on donor aid to a self-sustainable one in which private sectors and 27 entrepreneurship will play the most important role. The return of the country's creditworthiness in the international capital market, and the growing dependence on the World Bank's loan to poor countries, are important steps in this direction. In this connection, we will follow the following priorities: - preserving the country's macroeconomic stability; - establishing a single economic space; - reforming and rationalising the judicial system; - improving the business climate for domestic and foreign investments as the main instrument for increasing employment and reducing the poverty rate; strengthening an adequate institutional framework at all levels, and especially at the level of the country that will improve exports and quality control; - ending the privatisation process; establishing a rule of law and more efficient instruments to combat organised crime and corruption; approaching the EU by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement; - integrating the country into global economic flows, inter alia, through achieving membership in the World Trade Organisation and establishing an adequate and sustainable social protection system. Projection of development. In the period called by this council of ministers, we expect that the real growth rate from the current 2% will gradually rise to more than 6% in 2006, which is in line with the projections made by the IMF. This would allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to restore the level of gross products at 2/3 prewar levels by the end of 2006. In this case, we expect the unemployment rate to decrease by about 35% compared to the current rate and the poverty rate by about 40%. In order to achieve this, it will be necessary to: - preserve mental stability based on a stable exchange rate and conversion of domestic currency; - seek a solution to the problem of high public debt, which is now equal to the country's total annual gross product; - reduce the current current account deficit from 21% to 11% by the end of the Council of Ministers' term of office, why it is necessary to increase exports by about 20% and keep the import rate below 10% per year; - change the import structure in favour of new technologies and development of the manufacturing sector; reduce public spending from the current unsustainable level from over 60% to around 45%. This reduction should, among other things, lead to a decrease in the fiscal deficit from 12% in 2002 to 3% in 2006. The total foreign debt should fall from 62% in 2002 compared to the gross product to 54% in 2006, which will be possible, among other things thanks to the favourable post-war borrowing structure. - improve the business environment for domestic and foreign investors; - effective measures to encourage the involvement of capital in domestic banks; - continue to build a single economic space; significantly improve and modernise the area of transport and communication; - increase the rate of domestic private investment in the country from current 9% compared to the gross product to 14% in 2006; - influence that domestic private savings, which is still very low in value to 6% compared to the gross product by 2006; - eliminate the participation of the private sector in the gross product by about 30% compared to the current one, which will require a much more efficient privatisation process; introduce a tax on additional value to stimulate economic activities; - eliminate the black market of goods, services and labour; - work on further reform of labour markets and establish a single labour market at the level of all the countries deprived; maintain the security of human rights through the security of the environment; support of the environment; In this place, I would especially like to point out one fact. The management of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank, headed by Governor Piter Nikola, has done its job well. We'll continue to run monetary policy based on the currency board. However, we appreciate that the time has come to improve the currency committee in some segments, especially by strengthening the supervisory and credit role of the Central Bank. We will also continue to liberalise the external trade regime through the conclusion of new free trade agreements and through membership in the World Trade Organisation. For the sake of adequate protection of domestic production, we appreciate the importance of establishing instruments to control the quality of goods for import and export and to find better solutions for subsidising agricultural production. We'll pay special attention to our domestic resources. It is unacceptable for Bosnians to go to the rivers, and for Bosnia and Herzegovina to import only mineral waters annually, it singles out dozens of millions of marks. It is unfortunate that our dairy producers are spreading milk, and Bosnia and Herzegovina spends tens of millions of KM on imports of dairy products. A number of problems and the existing state that defacto stimulates corruption will require a reorganization of customs administration. I think the best way to form is at the state level. The allocation of such funds is subject to the future agreement of all entities in the country. In any case, the Council of Ministers will continue to co-operate with the European Commission and Kafa in this area. In doing so, it should be kept in mind that the adoption of new laws on customs administration and on income belongings will try to resolve existing imbalances in the financing of municipal, but also state-level. Given the importance of VAT to curb the black market, stabilise budgets, foster domestic production, stimulate exports, bring economic integration closer, strengthen institutions, the most efficient possible system of free political influences will be needed. I believe that because of the numerous gaps in the functioning of the existing customs and tax services, the VAT system based on separate tax administrations at entity level would not be adequate. It would lead to further difficulties in establishing a single economic space and on Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to the EU. For this reason, I would like to support the recommendations made to the High Representative from a recently published report by the European Commission on the promotion and concept of customs services. 29 We will continue to cooperate with the international tax advisory group. The special responsibility of this Council of Ministers lies in co-operation with the IMF in order to realise the signed Stand Bay arrangement. The objective is to open negotiations to obtain favourable funds from a fund called PERGF. Bosnia and Herzegovina has only received commercial loans since the IMF. I am convinced that by further progress and pawnage we can get more favourable loans that would focus on social giving and microcredits for the unemployed to start the crafts. We are witnessing rapid changes in countries in the region which also base their development on attracting foreign investors. They're our competitors, and so far they've done it faster than we have. That's why for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the creation of a business atmosphere is a race with time, because at least we have to get there, if not to outrun other countries that have far fewer problems than we do. We therefore have an important task to make our economy more competitive and, through the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments and other relevant entities, to present opportunities for investment in our country to potential investors. The reform of the judicial system will be at the very top of our priorities. An effective judicial system is not only a phrase, but a condition without which reforms we intend to implement cannot be completed and without which laws cannot be implemented. The establishment of effective debt collection mechanisms and the resolution of business disputes through the formation of special commercial courts can significantly affect the reduction of interest rates through risk reduction. This would make the country's financial capital significantly cheaper and thus encourage companies of existing or newly established and citizens to protect the financial sector from the current sometimes endless procedures. We will also establish co-operation and try to take the lead in the Bulldozer Committee that operates with OHR. I think the document, business and justice is a very good starting point on the road to which we need to cross. The absence of a single economic space and institutions and standards in line with European criteria is a major obstacle to our companies that have the potential to export. Therefore, as soon as possible, we need to identify products that can be competitors on the world market and focus on creating a framework that will bring our products into an equal position at the bar on this plan. Otherwise, I'm afraid we lost the game before it even started. The law on bankruptcy and liquidation in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be adopted as soon as possible. A similar law has already been passed in Republika Srpska. We wish to reach agreement on the restructuring of businesses, primarily with the World Bank, but also with other members of the International Privatisation Advisory Group. We also aim to encourage commercial banks that have claims in businesses to find their own interest in participating with the state in the process. In this way bankruptcy can be a new beginning, instead of an endless delay in the end, which is becoming increasingly more difficult and destructive. The acceleration of the privatisation of strategic enterprises is a central issue of reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The successful completion of this job, especially if customers are renowned by foreign companies, will raise the level of foreign investment, improve services, provide new technologies and markets, increase exports, and make these companies more efficient. 30 Bosnia and Herzegovina is a land of worthy men and entrepreneurs. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens living around the world are recording good business results. The business experience of these people, their resources and their strong bond with their homeland can be a strong incentive for faster development. A favourable and predictable business environment is needed to achieve this. Encouraging entrepreneurship through small and medium-sized enterprises is a great potential for economic growth and employment growth. I think it would be useful to set up an appropriate fund to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises through which financial capital would be placed significantly cheaper than it is today. The transport sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina today provides a series of opportunities that we need to take adequate advantage of. This will not only improve the flow of people and goods, speed it up and make it cheaper and more efficient, but also open up what is known in economic practice as public works. Correcting and modernising existing road communications, building highways towards the European corridors, making it important for Luka Brcko and the Sava-Dunav waterway, modernising rail and air transport sectors are the most important, but not the only potential chances in this field of activity. To make progress in this area, it is necessary to make the existing legal framework more rational to make Bosnia and Herzegovina a step towards Europe as well. Concessions and ways of granting them in this area will affect more than others the length of time and seriousness of our talks with significant foreign investors where the initial interest already exists. Every day there's a problem that I'm going to put out here for a little while and take care of it. The issue of small and medium-sized enterprises deals today with few international community actors, from SFOR units on the ground, through to yesterday's humanitarian organisations to more professional institutions. We have experience in recent years that several billion dollars have been reportedly spent in rebuilding the country without the Ministry of Reconstruction. The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the institutions of the international community, do not have comprehensive information on the reconstruction process as necessary in order to evaluate it. We've got to get a message out of this, but we've got to get the donors out of here. We don't even have basic data such as the total amount of aid granted and the realisation aid. So rough estimates, not facts, but estimates are about the sum of $3 to $5 billion. And so it was possible for someone to get 3 or more donations for the same projects and not one. I fear that if we do not establish a mechanism for monitoring and coordinating the activities related to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises at the Council of Ministers level, a similar thing will happen to the reconstruction. In order to make public revenue more efficient, it will be necessary to establish coordination in relation to the implementation of donor aid. I do not see any reason why information on the cost of donor funds is not available to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in order to avoid duplication, to cheapen the project implementation process and to be able to plan our economic development. Meanwhile, Bosnia and Herzegovina has built public income spending institutions. A vault operating system as well as the function of public auditors has been introduced. We still have to adopt adequate public procurement laws, which will be a concrete step in the fight against corruption. As can be seen from some elements of the macro-economic development scenario requires more aggressive implementation of economic reforms. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with entity governments, will be ready to do its part of the job. However, much will depend on the international community as well. I feel that the international community has never been 31 more unique in its activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This council of ministers is offered as an equal partner to such an international community in the business that stands before us. I appeal to representatives of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina to apply EU standards and principles in their work, not to be our accomplices in making bad compromises. Neither we nor the international community have time for bad or half solutions anymore. Our ultimate goal is to establish a self-sustainable economy. However, according to the macroeconomic scenario, which is largely in line with international financial institutions headed by the IMF, we will not be able to provide it with our own resources alone, but will require an additional $2 billion in grants and favourable loans by the end of 2006. Realising that the international community expects us to move more aggressively into reforms, and we know that the additional funds will be conditioned by means of the reform implementation. To this end, we will continue to build partnership with the international community, because we will need foreign technical assistance to implement reforms, but only in those sectors where we do not have domestic resources. We appreciate the technical knowledge of our experts, and we believe that over-engagement of foreign consultants is not a rational solution either for the international community or for us. I don't think there's a need for us to be out there in the future, especially not with the World Bank to engage foreign consultants. The proposal for Bosnia and Herzegovina's development strategy, which is in the public debate, has been composed by domestic experts and has already received significant compliments from experts from the international community and this is one example that our people can make good projects. We are planning to pay particular attention to the education sector. We are grateful to the OSCE for our co-ordination so far in preparing a study on education reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a close link between education and poverty. The higher the level of education, the lower the risk of falling into the poor category. And this is one of our motives to solve this problem as soon as possible, to ensure our better future. An alarming data that our public has already been informed that out of the more than 250 professions our high school students are trained in, only 32 can be found today. This is just an additional motive for full engagement in the education reform ahead. In order to achieve all of the above objectives, it will be necessary to reduce political tensions in the country in addition to realising reforms. In fact, the large number of investors our country is not eligible for investment, not only because of unfavourable administrative procedures, unfinished transitions and corruption, but also because of the constant threats to political and recent social unrest. In a situation like this, we all lose, and it is necessary to reach a consensus on the most important political issues as soon as possible. In addition, an adequate social protection system should be provided. The current privatisation could increase unemployment in the short term and therefore the social protection system must be significantly improved compared to the current one. We can come into a situation where we will adopt the most progressive investment laws, and from a legal point of view create a favourable investment climate, but in a situation of constant threat, violations of social peace will not increase foreign and domestic investment, which is imperative for further economic growth and better life for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is unacceptable that a large number of social rights holders are not receiving any assistance because budgets do not have enough resources. It is also unacceptable that in one part of 32 countries they exercise the right to social protection, and in the other they are not legally established. The successful implementation of reforms depends largely on governments, but must be attended by all segments of society. Given the need to speed up reforms, all of us should be prepared to lose in the short term in order to be long-term. This is the experience of Hungary, the Czech Republic or Poland, countries where the transition has been successfully carried out. I intend to use these experiences with bilateral contacts with these countries. The citizens of BiH have shown great patience to date and their further support will be needed. This support can only be expected and obtained if we indicate that there is light at the end of the tunnel. I come to this position with considerable experience in running a canton with a special regime. I'm aware of all the difficulties, but I'm sure in these conditions it's also possible to achieve a visible result and run things forward. I expect changes in the structure of the BiH Council of Ministers, an increase in the number of ministries, and a particularly new way of deciding will allow for greater efficiency and operationality of this state body. It is the government's duty to try to make our bureaucracy more efficient and cheaper. This will be achieved if we support the State Service Agency and help it accept professional standards of modern business. We need to analyse both qualifications and quality of work employed by state institutions, their ability and change those who do not meet these standards. I also see cheaper business in better exploiting the space used by the Council of Ministers' bodies. European standards of successful modern administrative business are clear to me on this issue and I don't see why not apply them. The electronic functioning of the Council of Ministers will contribute to further cost reduction and more effective action. BiH's foreign policy, according to the constitution, leads the presidency, but because the institutions at the BiH Council of Ministers are competent, I will make a few remarks in this regard. There is no dilemma that the way BiH's development is strategically related to joining the EU and the Partnership for Peace. As the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am also in charge of the Directorate for European Integration, I will make sure that the day of BiH's accession to the European Union is as close as possible. We have tens of thousands of pages of law to comply with European standards. This will be achieved by a maximum open and active approach, by contacts with the European Union bodies, as well as by bilateral contacts with the Member States of the European Union and other Euro-Atlantic integrations. Analyzing the state of co-operation with the Stability Pact, which was launched at that spectacular summit in the summer of 1999 in Sarajevo, I must show my dissatisfaction with our passivity in the work of that body. This pact has security and economic objectives, which correspond to BiH, but so far we have not had any special success in placing practical projects and we need to change the situation for the better. I think the priorities are the focus circles. The countries surrounding BiH, the countries of the Stability Pact and the countries of the European Union. I would like to announce that I will pay special attention to the return of the jagged reputation of the Bosnian Herzegovina authorities in the Islamic world which was our extremely significant donor and now can and should be our economic partner. Respect and adequate legal protection of human rights in the country, in which they are so systematically violated in the near past, will ensure BiH's place in a happier part of Europe and the world. The return of refugees to their homes and the opening of existential opportunities for self-sustainable survival are the most significant form of human rights, which we unfortunately have not yet fully respected in 33. However, faster implementation of property laws is a significant step in the ongoing process. To translate into reality all laws and conventions in accordance with European human rights standards is not easy but it is certainly a permanent task of every government and this council of ministers. We will advocate that by the end of 2003, property laws, CRPC decisions are fully implemented and the property is returned to their owners. The means of information are our ally in gaining public opinion on the difficult way of reform, which we are dealing with. That's why I'm calling on the representatives of the 7th Force to help us. On our part, we promise maximum access to all information and transparency in work. We're in third year, third millennium. The challenges facing the advanced world are enormous. Being part of that world and facing these challenges is our human pursuit. Carrying along the tradition and culture that the people of BiH have built for centuries and used as an advantage and not to be their hostage is a task that defines us and our actions as people of the future or people of the past. The image of BiH in the future depends on us, I hope that this council of ministers will bring into that picture a little brighter colors than they have ever been before. Ladies and gentlemen, after extensive consultations with political parties and parties currently forming a parliamentary majority in this House, I have made a decision to appoint a deputy chairman, minister and deputy minister in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Allow me to read that decision: - For the Minister of Foreign Affairs and at the same time Deputy Chairman I appointed Dr Mladen Ivanić. - for the minister of security and at the same time Deputy Chairman Bariša Čolak, - for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mila Gadžić, - for the Minister of Finance and Treasury of Master Ljeljko Marić, - for the Minister of Communications and Transport of Dr Branko Dokić, - for the Minister of Civil Affairs Dr Safet Halilović, - for the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Mirsad Keba, - for Deputy Foreign Minister Lidija Topić, - for Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Momir Tošić, - for Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury of Master Jusuf Humalić, - for Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport Haris Bašić, - for Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Zoran Tešanović, - for Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Ivica Marinović and Deputy Minister of Security Dragan Mektić. As you can see, I have not yet made a decision to appoint a minister and deputy minister of justice, and I ask you to consider it and to allow this decision to be confirmed, regardless of the lack in the BiH Ministry of Justice, to be officially given to the Council of Ministers today. The reason why we do not have a minister and deputy minister of justice is that we have not yet received the necessary consent from the OHR regarding the appointment of the minister. Since I know that there is an enormous amount of work ahead of you both in January and February of the month, I ask you to accept our decision to carry out those necessary confirmations for the Minister and Deputy Minister of Justice at the first next session of this House and today confirm the appointment I have made. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7143	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Look, this is, please, just wait a minute. I, therefore, have given my word to the MPs and, of course, you will speak, but I ask you once again that when we open the debate to those who have decided earlier to take part in the debate so that we do not wait to get into the situation where we are, and you will speak you are MPs and you have the right to speak and I do not intend to deny these rights as I sit in this place. Mr. Sead Avdić answered first. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7144	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, respected members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, respected presidency, I think it is necessary for this brief pause to calm down, simply, the impressions of this presentation and, in that sense, it is quite logical to act as MPs and, in this context, it is not necessary to insist and simply lead the session to question such simple exposés of the Council of Ministers' mandate. In that sense, then, it's perfectly normal and logically this is one short break. I, too, first thing I'd like to ask my own controversy about this discussion about this document is. Has the Council of Ministers' term of office held prior consultations with all the political parties that make up the parliamentary majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and received the mandate for this presentation? It means that there is the political will of political parties and parties that make up the parliamentary majority for what is said here in the exposé of the Council of Ministers' mandate. I don't think it is and that simply some of the things here that have been said are, after all, a missed investment, with regard to the political situation that we are now, simply which is today in BiH. First of all, a basic document which is simply disputed by some political parties is the introduction of a value added tax, in the Business and Justice document there is an obligation in early 2005 to resuscitate such a project that the project is simply implemented at the level of the BiH state, to decentralise funds in normal, according to the entiets etc. The mandater, I believe, does not, unsimplifiedly, approve, have no political consent or political consensus for such a political project. So I'm asking that, simply, from an agreement on the establishment of a parliamentary majority, which should probably have been signed, it's after all, simply a guarantee that political parties guarantee that this will be translated into action, otherwise this is just an empty story. Really, I have to react this harshly and discuss it. So, tax on extra value. The second thing, the single customs administration at the level of the BiH state, is also deeply disputed, unnecessarily aggressively challenged, simply putting itself into existence, there is absolutely no political will of parties that make up the parliamentary majority for the introduction and establishment of a single customs administration at the level of the BiH state. So, from where, simply the courage and strength of the Council of Ministers' mandate to simply put it in an exposé in the document, and simply there is no agreement of political parties that make up the parliamentary majority. What does that mean, then? Then we have to ask ourselves, really what this document represents, which is before us with the full respect of Mr. Prime Minister and everything else that is simply presented today. 35 What I must also react, it says, and I quote, "I want to take special care of young people here about the future of BiH." Believe me, Mr. Terzić, the young will no longer be BiH's future. The young want to be the present of BiH. Young people want a job today. They will when they finish school to find a job, which means, after all, they simply need to respond to those basic needs of the young generation in BiH and yet, I absolutely cannot accept it, I ask you to accept this, I can't because it's not true, because it's not true. He says: "In an atmosphere where young people of BiH experience their own homeland and which gives them enough to meet their standards and ambitions. I will consider with my colleagues the following way to do so, thinking about the possibility that the Council of Ministers should appoint a Commissioner for Youth, who would be in charge of dealing with this issue on behalf of the Council of Ministers." I think it is necessary that, simply, a really young generation be designed in one way that is simply not a bad idea to be a Council of Ministers' Commissioner, or simply some resolute ministry, but an objectively young generation deserves to develop a particular thesis or part of this exposé where a young generation will be treated. Third, you read and you didn't mention it. He tells the knowledge, down next paragraph, the belief of all political forces in society, including the opposition. You haven't read this, whether it's random or intentional, but I apologize. Furthermore, the public sector in BiH as well as the BiH administration authorities, these five levels of government in BiH, are simply over 14% of BiH's gross social product. You did not answer how you would reduce it to seven per cent so that these costs would simply be bearable in view of the possibilities of the BiH state. So 14% in normal countries is 7% and this poor country in the Balkans of BiH, then it should be below 7% of the aspect, simply this public spending. Once again, it would be good to develop the introduction of a tax on additional value, until then it would be an advocate to immediately without, simply, without a lot of calculations, simply tax on high-tariff products such as sales, oil, oil derivatives, tobacco, tobacco processing, etc. Immediately, it simply introduces and amends their collection, means at the place of first sale, and thus largely curbs the black market, the grey economy, and simply starts with an increased dynamic to fill entity budgets and thus we take a concrete first step in reforming economic policy in BiH. I think that, and I repeat once again, it is necessary, indeed, to achieve a full political consensus and in this context, simply to observe this exposé. Also, this is a document that was largely promoted by the international community, which was done together with domestic BH authorities, work and justice promoted by the international community, which was done together with domestic BH authorities "Work and Justice", which is... mentioned in this document. Whether it is an integral part of this exposé, whether it is an exposé, will simply communicate with this document, whether this document is because it really has its place in this exoze or in the work of the Council of Ministers etc. It stays, simply, just to be guessed. And when you say, in the end, that this Council of Ministers offers, to be offered as an equal party to the international community, we call on the mandater to simply do everything on his part and the Council of Ministers to fight a battle for an equal relationship of political and moral dignity of BH institutions, i.e. the institutions of BiH and the Council of Ministers and this Parliament together with the international community. We offer nothing to them, we build partnership relations, and in this context, the international community is one participant who accepts, after all, simply this consulting council for partner relations at BiH level and in this sense should simply define it. 36 You know well that BiH's macroeconomic policy creates not us but the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, you know well, that we have signed a Stand Bay arrangement that restricts the measures of the country's economic policy and clearly directs entity and BiH, and in this sense it would be necessary to talk or redefine, or how you want to redefine, simply talk to these institutions, primarily with the World Bank and the IMF from the aspect, a simple economic policy for the current year 2003, and, on the other hand, try to redefine this agreement that objectively blocks the means of rpivatisation and that public enterprises, privatisation of public enterprises, means, could be established one fund for restructuring and development at the level of the bih that would be sufficient to initiate this wheel of economy and simply enable a new investment cycle. While we have blocked funds on the ESC's entity accounts, it is absolutely not possible, because privatisation funds cannot be directed into the development or restructuring of production. What needs to be pointed out and well, I simply agree with you as a whole a passport that talks about these elements of the use of domestic resources, home knowledge and home mind, I thank you for that. Here is the first time we have here that one, simply mandater, or Council of Ministers prefers, in particular domestic knowledge and in this context is looking for ways to substitute, reduce the participation of the international community from the aspect of foreign experts, project leaders or simply some other relations. Finally, I do not understand what this means to the electrical functioning of the Council of Ministers, I guess the computerisation of this entire system or the use of information technology, in this electronic functioning can lead to some wrong conclusions or simply misunderstood understanding. Once again, I ask you as a mandater, to do everything on your part, to reach a political consensus on this exposé and that the Council of Ministers, for one of the first next meetings of the House of Representatives, submit measures to BiH's economic policy for the current year 2003 and that this exposure dynamically, simply come up with in terms of meeting what was said in the next four years. Otherwise, this ship will simply fall into such bagging waters that will be difficult to get out of. So, once again, I ask, simply for the public of BiH to be familiar with the agreement and foundations of a political consensus that has been reached or not reached about what is called exposure and what is called the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for the next four years, or what is called the economic policy measures for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7145	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. Let's have Mr. Nikola Špirić. I've seen so much so far. Mr. Gligorić, then you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7146	Dear fellow MPs, the BiH Party wants first of all to express its dissatisfaction and protest that we received the necessary documents directly before the session. So, the exposés, biographies and ultimately the overall decision-making project we received directly before the session itself and in many ways will determine our actions during the course of the session. 37 The Party for BiH supported the confirmation of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, or rather supported its political framework, which it presented before the House of Representatives, so we will also support the exposés, by having, of course, as much as possible in this short time, we have one observation, we will ask for an explanation to tell us whether the document Business and Justice is the starting point of your programme, or whether this is the framework of your programme that you will stick to. So these are the positions of the Party for BiH. When it comes to the proposed ministers, we ask that predstavnički House of Representatives be declared today that the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Rule 115, should be applied and that the ministers should be voted by analogy as confirmed, to be confirmed as confirmed and chaired, therefore, in the same way. That means a single statement on the proposed ministers. We do not insist on the obligation that they present their political programmes. It will be enough for us to make clear and explicit statements in front of this representative's home that they will support the programme, based on which we supported the prime minister. When it comes to this, because the behaviour of the present Parliament, or individual MPs coming from individual political options, does not convince us that we will have a situation of support for certain projects that are subject to the political framework, which Mr Terzić presented. I'm talking about reform, judicial reform. Here's the situation that no consent has been reached, not even for the way and procedure of adopting the law on criminal proceedings, etc. So we want the publicly proposed ministers to support and statements that they will respect and support this programme on the basis of which we have given support to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. When the word is therefore, under these conditions the Party for BiH would support the proposed candidates. When it comes to deputies, we propose to vote separately on deputies for several reasons. Knowledge of names, not data biographically, etc. They came to us for five minutes before just a session. We've learned about the ministers, but we've learned about the deputies five minutes before. Their résumés are incomplete, so we have a situation, so let's not get me wrong, we have a situation, in one case it says that a man is proposed as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, in his biography it says that he was proposed as Deputy Minister of Economic Relations. I don't even know what ministry it's about, so the Minister of Economic Relations. Significant periods of human activity have been left out. He doesn't know about references. For some candidates, only tax-listed professional diplomas, professional qualifications, etc. are listed. There's nothing at all about where he was working, what he was doing and what references could be drawn from it, and what's very important to us, we don't know if the checks have been made for the deputies, in the way that the checks have been done for the ministers, at least for those areas for which the checks have been carried out. If they're not, we're asking you to do it. So, let's recap, let's get this straight. The BiH Party is asking for the application of Article 115(3). The Rules of Procedure, when it comes to a statement on ministers, without requiring them to present the programme but to clearly and explicitly say that they support the programme offered by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, by explaining whether the document is a starting point or within which it will move. When it comes to deputies, we ask that separate statements be made about them, that they are not at all declared today, if these assumptions are not met when it comes to the OHR verification at least for those subject to verification when it comes to ministers. Here, so much and thank you very much. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7147	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić will prepare for Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7148	To a member of the Bureau, because others went out, the working presidency, honourable MPs, ministers, guests, ladies and gentlemen, we've got exposés, and I hope there will be enough words about him. You spoke more about the position on the previous report of the Council of Ministers. I expected you to be the first to report at least to praise this exposé, so the word praise is somehow missing. When it comes to that, I have to tell you that I can't take the impression, you're kind of depressed and kind of shriveled like you've done something that you shouldn't have done. I know you've got champagne on your side and you're gonna get together and celebrate, but that's what you do to me, when you act like this, I have to say something else. Here you should see who's hiding behind the screens and who's been doing it so beautifully, because today it's about that too. To remind you, we had a time of unclassified Tit, Nesru, Nehru and Naser, so we had Mr. Izetbegović, Karadžić and Kljujić's 1990s, and today we should know what the three men behind the curtain agreed on, if for nothing else to propose to him for the Nobel Peace Prize, that we know who the citizens would be grateful for, after this situation today. When we talk about the exposé, someone's telling me to stick to the agenda, you should have heard the last call the opposition criticized the position, so don't blame the MP when he comes out and has the right to say it. In this exposé, Mr. Chairman, compared to that political framework again, which was your own invention again in order to gain time, you have now said much more clearly in this exhibition and I disagree with Mr. Avdić who says there is no single customs office, no VAT, no tax system, you did not clearly say here the original revenues that are mentioned clearly, but you have fully installed the original revenues at BiH level. I like Mr. Belkić's proposal when he said the ministers should come out and say they also support this exposé. When we talk about him, then it's clear here that you have no decentralisation, but that you have centralised. You didn't mention one word here, Dejton, but since Mr. Čović is here to remind him so little of his words when he said that Dejton was past the point, the thing failed. In RS, they say it's unholy, and now it would be good and interesting if those two things, at least here in Parliament, were clearly reconciled, and neither did you, so you forgot you didn't put it here in the exposé and you all swore in Dayton. Does anyone think it's already a thing of the past, while on the other hand we have an OHR that says, how do you deal with it? Has the Serb side agreed here, the assembly's majority can support such a centralisation of the original income, given statements when they return to RS say something completely different to their citizens. This is one practical question to answer and, of course, Mr. Terzić. At the last session, we held this debate, and now I would like these comments, suggestions, and these questions that we ask to be answered by the MPs. Last time there were dozens of such obstinates and we didn't get Mr. Terzić's answer, so it would be correct if you wrote down every MP and when he sets something up, you answer. That's why you think you put the Council of Ministers in office, after amending and supplementing the Council of 39 Ministers Act, when with six ministries we have nine now, when we know that even the previous ministries couldn't function, they have no space, no equipment, no housing. It's the same today. I don't mean ministers by frame, because it's easy for you to handle it. I mean the overall functioning of the system, because, you know, one of the basic conditions, when we were sought out in time from the international community, is the functioning of BiH institutions. I'm responsible because you didn't get the funds in the budget. How are these three new ministries going to function, or are you going to give them some special offices, that the ministers are being set up, and everything in their basic function is going to be empty. It would be quite correct to answer that question. How's that organ that you're going to run gonna work when the previous ministries didn't work? I don't mean anything wrong here, but I'd like the Council of Ministers to function at full capacity. Next question. Will you follow the advice and build real partnership relations with the international community, or with OHR? The issue is understandable when it comes to BiH's level so far, so at the state level and we have to start the company because someone asked for it today. The company is a good thing, twelve years ago, the same advice from the international community you did not accept, the same political option. When you talk about advice over and over again, I have read about this co-operation more urgently about how it will work between you, or you will be chairing, since you have said, I have read about it in the daily press where you said, "If there is nothing to think about, it is enough to go to OHR and get a mission there." That is not good if you said so, we could comment on that, because then this parliament is too high and all the institutions in BiH. Then the issue of reform. That's what you've often said in the political context and in this exposé. How do you mean to implement it when we have a situation that the budget of BiH, of course, is entityal, but we are talking about the budget of BiH by the IMF clearly determined so in that case 530 million? How do you think, how do you establish this co-operation with the IMF, which, apparently, tailors that policy and 30% or 40% takes funds from the Budget to service these credit lines and these users, budget users, what gets past. On the other hand, you're afraid of national, so I like to say social and national insurrection, but how do you plan to solve that, if, then, the IMF is leading the policy of determination? He's looking for financial discipline, just to make 30-40% of it work and everything else doesn't matter. That should answer. Who will make up these reform projects now, the transition from socialism to a civil democratic society from a non-market economy, from war to a peaceful economy in which it will be, means the right to work is guaranteed? Who and when will build concrete social programmes, transition from economically inefficient social and state ownership to effective private ownership, and how, on that basis, eliminate poverty and hunger? I have to say something when it comes to the trust of the people, because in that part you also said trust, reconciliation, etc. It is without politicians something kind of natural and spontaneous and there was no problem until the leadership got involved. We're not going to talk about politics now or national or religious hatred and whoever did it, we're not going to talk about it either. Now that you three executives have agreed, and clearly just for the sake of power, are you aware that you have seriously compromised a process of real reconciliation of the people who have spontaneously moved without politics? This is a very serious one question that should be answered, because this is about one national sobering, whether it will be removed from your or some other conflict-based policies, this should be taken into account when you talk about political will, political consensus, etc. Because the special combat population is dissatisfied and that's why you would have to say here their definition of war, which says that people who don't know each other, war and kill each other for the expense of those who get very well together and that the people and these poor people are made up of underground cities and the mansions of the earth for those who led them. The public, or what they might say in the translation, 40 may be for the people, perhaps that should be explained. When the oxen are stabbed, the grass gets hit, but someone needs to send that kind of message. Today, the public is asking for answers to many questions, then the next question. Co-operation with a closer and further environment, especially with SR Yugoslavia. How to achieve a dialogue, which is burdened with BiH's lawsuit against the SR Yugoslavia. You as a congregation majority should go out and solve in BiH and question the character of the war. You said in your exposé that people had to leave half a million because of unfortunate circumstances. You mentioned the word war twice in the exposé. You didn't say civil war. Therefore, you remained unclear. Why is it unclear? People need to be open and clear about everything. Are you today as this assembly majority fully agreed that it was a civil war in BiH and we have resolved a previous issue very difficult in this country. Until this issue is resolved, you will never be able to talk about the real trust of the people and some other relations if you haven't honestly solved it, or you would have left it aside, as the people say, there are reforms for the chair, you end it and you put this aside, some other time will come and when you enter the villages you will tell them again how it must have been, etc. Since I'm being watched by a member of the Čović predsjedništvo, I have to say about these criteria, etc. Is there room in this context for the Republic of Croatia? Especially when it's been known that soldier JNA since 19 means May of '92. The year was not on BiH's space, and that the paramilitary units of the Republic of Croatia were later on in BiH. You, sir, when you speak, I will not disturb you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7149	Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7150	I have more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7151	An MP please be nice. Stick to the agenda and the espose. You don't need to make political speeches here, come on, if you have anything on the exposé and if you have anything on the motion for a decision. I've let you talk so far, I've been holding back all along, but please, come on, take care of what's the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7152	Okay. All the time I've been saying what the agenda is, because this is simply the Council of Ministers is responsible by the Constitution for all the social areas of life and you can't say that no social area of life I've ever talked about is contained here. That's why the next question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7153	You're out of time to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7154	As legislator of the law, I mean the Council of Ministers. Are you going to propose a law on illegally acquired assets or a law on confiscated war profit, because you haven't said that and you're talking about reforms and how to resolve it, given that at the entity level of national property, that question, 41 means it's not settled, and whether at BiH level you're going to be so united, it's the only reform issue that's not on the list of international communities, but which people have waited and expected for years. If you're going to go out today and we're going to say we're going to settle this, we're going to get rid of these fairies that are above the ground, etc. I think that's how the agenda works. I wish it was in the exposé and it's a concern for the people. Everything else is an empty story. Since they say I'm out of time, we'll see who's out of time, who's the future and who's the past. I just Mr. Chairman wanted you both to try and answer questions correctly, though. If I left on some subject, I apologize, but this is life and believe me this is understandable I would like the people to hear, but here you are not transferring direct transmission, since there is no electricity in the RS, maybe that's a coincidence. I don't know who the director is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7155	Obviously, then, you're running out of time for this discussion. Please, Mr. Duraković had previously asked for a word during the discussion of the replica and then you, then Mr. Avdić. No, no, this is a replica. This is not a discussion, Mr. Špirić is next to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7156	Mr Gligorić says, here are all these villages you, is that life of course, but this is also a Parliament that has its own procedure and its rules of procedure, etc. And he bid a series of very big questions that go past what's said in the exposé and, of course, the biggest of them, that finding that there was a civil war here, that it's not at all controversial, and if we all find it together, then we'll either get rid of a series of these problems. Unfortunately, Mr Gligorić, all the measuring and political and scientific factors and international and domestic and all the international relations subjects in the world today stand at the view that in BiH, as then a sovereign, internationally recognised state, classical aggression was committed by a known aggressor. And, of course, I wouldn't be here right now if we were to open the cracks, there are, naturally and more difficult that there was a civil war here, that was a religious war, that was a tribal conflict that had elements, one, the other and the other and the other and the like, but this fundamental finding that was still established at the London conference in August of '92. year, then confirmed at all international measuring levels, convergences, agreements and international legal acts, and to The Hag where today the judges of those who were the idea and political creators of that aggression, I don't think opening that discussion really makes any sense. Perhaps at some other time, because it requires a serious debate and I support your proposal to discuss it calmly in the spirit of tolerance, understanding, arguments and scientific basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7157	I thank Professor Duraković. Mr. Avdić, you asked for an intervention at the gentleman's discussion, just to sort things out, Mr. Gligorić, and then the intervention at Mr. Gligorić's discussion asked for Mr. Đedović's discussion, and you just wanted me to report it, so the discussion means. So, there goes Đedović, 42
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7158	Just for a little while. I think the esteemed representative Gligorić misunderstood me. I did not say that this country does not need or does not need to introduce a single customs administration and simply introduce an additional value tax with the possibility of the original financing of BiH as a whole. I only asked that these two projects, which are crucial for the future of BiH and for the country's economic policy, have no political consensus or political consensus within the parliamentary majority, according to statements, statements and positions of political political parties that take part in the parliamentary majority. I would be and I would like to be denied and simply overcome these political controversy, but objectively, today as things stand, the prime minister did not have, simply, a basis in a political consensus to discuss these two crucial, simple issues for the future of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7159	Thank you. Mr. Špirić Nikola has a discussion. Let him prepare for the discussion, Mr. Đedović Ibrahim. Mr. Špirić's discussion. Which provisions of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. What do you want, tell me? Here you go. Replication response. Here you go. Mr. Gligorić reply to Mr. Nijaz Duraković's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7160	I want Mr. Nijaz Duraković's reply. When we talk about civil war, you have spoken and called on many international decisions to call them that. I'll go back to life. People say, and so do I. Hrvat and Srbin, Hrvat and Musliman killed each other at the time against Srbin. Then the Hrvat fought the Musliman again at that time, and then the Musliman fought the Musliman. If these aren't the elements of civil war, at least in one part, and let it remain for later, I don't think we should run from it and not put it under the rug, and that's where I agree with you. And as for this relationship with the BiH Party, I wouldn't want to comment on it, because this axis that operates SDS, HDZ and the SDA that you're oiling right now, I think it's too much to talk about and it's not the subject of this response anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7161	You have an intervention on this discussion, do you? Mr. Ćeman's intervention on this intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7162	My colleague Gligorić, I'm not a historian, but I've learned something from history and I've read it after teaching. They say that in the '30s, we all know for sure here, here in history, someone might remember, because there are people here who are less, to say young, in Spain a timely civil war. I've never, unfortunately, been to Spain but they say that in a town, it seems to me in Madrid, there's supposed to be a monument erected by all those who died in the civil war in Spain and that the monument says they died for Spain and in the truth, all of them at the time in Frank's troops, which in the Republicans died for some different concept of Spain. The basic thesis on how to distinguish my colleague Gligorić from BiH who died for what he died and whether there was a civil war here would be a question of whether all in BiH, who unfortunately died for 43 BiH and however we would imagine its internal structure. You've had a little bit of a change of pace over the last few years, so you see who's to what extent and how he died or killed or defended BiH, again, I say, however we imagine its inner structure. It would be difficult, unfortunately, in the way you say to raise a monument in BiH and write on it they died for BiH. God forbid no one died for BiH but that we agreed on it in this building and there was a chance that many or indeed many worked to make Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7163	Mr. Špirić Nikola's discussion. Let Mr. Đedović get ready Ibrahim.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7164	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests, I think, I see no reason to be nervous, I expected that after a serious opening presentation the chairperson and the College will give a break for at least 15 minutes to set MPs according to the exposé, to agree with themselves how they think about talking about this exposé, because this is a serious time. I'd like to go back to the subject of keeping an eye on our lives, because today's system of squabbling certainly won't help the dead. And it seems to me that Mr. Ćeman is closest to my assessment that they all died and died for BiH, and that we have dragged peoples and citizens into the bloody war in our own way, which he has given the results he has given, but we leave it aside. I'd like to ask if there's a business possibility that we're picking out the government today? Is there or is there no business and constitutional option? That's very important. I don't know, and if I have to be honest, I follow, I read the Rules of Procedure, I don't know if there's a possibility, and another of my questions, where's the check center. Are we going to get the same materials from the same check center for people who pass through and for those who do not pass and who are the centres that provide the verified results of the check. Which are the centers, if it isn't Parliament. I'd really like to have all these materials today, based on which to say this man can, and this man is not satisfying and he can't and what about those for whom we can't say he's withdrawing his candidacy, is that a violation of human rights, where this country is at all? Who lays down to whom they count, and that's why I think this is a serious day for people who love their country and a hard day. A day full of responsibility, and I will be one of those who will gladly congratulate the future council of ministers on every good move and be one of those who whenever he considers it appropriate to warn something that is wrong with that, be convinced. But it seems to me that ladies and gentlemen, just for the sake of the ambience in which we find an unresolved series of problems, that we have received under quotes an incompetent council of ministers. When I say under quotes, I'll tell you in what way I mean, military incapacitation. There's no record of who served any army. It's all, I apologize to the ladies, it's hard for the armies of the saints to defend these fighters who can't write that they were participants and what they fought for, at least to speak for themselves. It doesn't say anywhere that he served, not even that he belonged... but that doesn't matter if they qualify for the most responsible functions in the state. But the important thing is that they liked the High Representative. He appreciates whether they are heavy, light, tall, small, smart, committed to reforms, whether it is best for BiH, how much it harms the environment, the Stability Pact, Southeast Europe and everything that awaits us. But I'd like it to be in this biographical data. And, please, really, it's high time this Parliament was held accountable and took over what belonged to it. So, as far as this is concerned, about these biographies, the checks, the method of checking out, the whole circus that's being run around doing time in BiH. I assure you, I have been forever of those who are cooperative with the international community and signified as someone you cannot agree with. But I was public, transparent, full of love for a talker when I didn't think like him. By 44 different from those whose OHR and international offices served to tell stories about others, and therefore I said it was not good to call on the international community to be their partners, so that they do not like it, beware of those assessments, that they do not look from the opposition to what is happening in our country. And what I want to say to be an opposition in my country is a very honorable thing, with the same love a man must work for the people and for the state and when he is a government and as an opposition, and don't let that sweetness take us away, because very quickly what you call a partnership may not please the High Representative and send you to the waiting room, and now I say something about an exposé. It is very difficult in the ambience in which BiH is located to write an exozee that will satisfy everything, so I understand the pain that the Prime Minister of BiH found himself in. You know that I was one of the opponents that the Council of Ministers was called the Government, because he had neither business nor constitutional possibilities, but the moment the future rulers agreed to deceive the people so that what is called the government, called the Council of Ministers, you see, I'm against it. We have the Council of Ministers Act, which is the law on a modern government. So then in the encounter of the Federation they went out to the RS to say they see we screwed them up it's not the government it's still the Council of Ministers, the run, the jug, over there. This is, therefore, the government of BiH and that is why I say the exposés of the Prime Minister. What is said is that the Prime Minister thinks about the possibility for the Council of Ministers to appoint a Commissioner for Youth who would be in charge, etc. I think it's good to think about young people but it's not good this way, at least it stands to appoint a high commissioner for young people. He no longer likes the people here to speak except high, nice, stasito, don't tell them the high commissioner for young people, then the young will understand it, because it is in the best picture of the position in which this unfortunate young world in BiH, unfortunately, finds itself, a bit of a cartoon to make it clear to them too what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7165	I'm sorry, I mean, this is a serious session and come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7166	I absolutely do. I'm serious. Believe me, whatever word I say.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7167	I'm not quite sure of anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7168	It's hard to convince you except that you seem to be in vain... be careful, this will pass, you see, if you can't stand today who you want to celebrate this day, how the poor people will for four years.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7169	Mr. Špirić, continue your discussion, stick to your time. You won't provoke me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7170	This is a good thing that the Prime Minister is in a measured optimist, of course, because for greater optimism there is hardly room in BiH, but on page 3 where he says we will follow the following priorities, so there is a number of preservation of the country's macroeconomic stability, the establishment of 45 of the single economic space, all of which stands and everything needs to be fought for, but one segment, which is not clearly agreed on, or should be kept silent, and I am not to keep quiet, is a matter of security in BiH, in which way he thinks to solve, after everything that's happened to us, have you agreed with partners not, what is it, it interests ordinary people every day is less than someone killing and persecuting them. What about the arrest of a war crimes suspect, what about the removal of terrorist camps in BiH? What about verifying the activities of humanitarian organisations that fueled terrorism in BiH and which are still subject to verification today, which do not only make the problem BiH, but also stronger democratic states, etc. Are these the priorities of this country or are we expecting someone else to solve them? So these are all serious issues that I think must be in these priorities, and believe me, I wouldn't mind having them in my priorities. Furthermore, on page 5, says the president or chairman, I think the best solution is to introduce a single customs office. I think the Prime Minister or Prime Minister has found one measure here, so when he said what he thinks is best, I don't know if there's an agreement, but I think what Mr. Avdić is saying, I wouldn't be surprised that the deal exists, but that deal must be transparent not to be hidden from the citizens. You see, High Representative, the international community is talking about a single customs. You've got a little noise from the RS, and even those who said they'd never accept what they're accepting here today, so I think there's a deal, but that we should keep the people cold so they say we're not going to live. Is there real agreement and what's the deadline? The international community warns that it is two months. Are you threatening to fire a customs officer in RS? Is that the best model? We like parliaments and that's what we have to talk about. What is the guarantee that BiH's single customs will reduce crime. I'd like to have a bill, so let me say we're going to cut the number of employees by 200 percent, the border will be like this, and crime will instead of the current billion marks going out of the budget, be reduced to 100 grand or 100 million going out of the budget, that's the exact data. But why isn't it here? Either there is no agreement or once again a false story should be told to the people, such as, say, now you have a story in RS about the Serbian parliamentary majority in eight ministerial posts. After the adoption of constitutional changes, gentlemen, the story of the national assembly majority is an adaptation regardless. And if it isn't, then the division of power and one ministry to the bišnjak, the other to the Hrvat, third to the Srbin, is the biggest nakarada for this country and its entities. She'll head her up she won't do anything else. So is that agreed and is the VAT system agreed? So, is that the best solution? I don't think we in BiH can become all parrots behind the OHR's office, so they fart there, we say what smells like.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7171	Come on, let it go. Mr. Špirić, please respect the importance of this home, don't be, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7172	I'm an MP. I respect dignity. Let me finish. Why not?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7173	Come on, please don't. I'm not here to listen, please. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7174	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7175	Finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7176	So, I would be happy or it would be in line with this country's interest if the entity's prime ministers had gone out with the accounts and said what VAT means at the state level what on the entity level, what's most worth it, not making a political story out of it. So, does he have that bill? Is there this consensus and when it will be and I think this is good, a measure has been found in this... when it is said, which is why I would like to support the recommendations of the High Representative from a recently published report by the European Commission on the improvement of the concept of customs services. This is pulling everything out. You just back the High Representative and his story and then this whole thing goes to BiH. Page 6 needs to be adopted as soon as possible by the law on bankruptcy and liquidation in the Federation of BiH and RS. Now, this is the only place where the entities are mentioned and you're going to be the bankruptcy of the head. The only mention here is the RS and the Federation in this prime minister's exposé. Page 7 is an excellent rating, when we do not know what we are in BiH, then it is a free finding of the Prime Minister. He says, I have a feeling that the international community has never been more unique in its operation in BiH. What's in it for us if it's a unique international community and we're not. That looks like that complicated slave chase. You know, they're running complicatedly, but the question is whether we should be inside to agree that this unity of the international community would be effective and give the expected results. Page 8. The mandatar says I don't think there's any need for us to be out there in the future, especially not from the World Bank to engage foreign consultants. The proposal to develop the BiH strategy, which is in the public debate, has been composed by domestic experts and has already received significant compliments from international community experts and this is one example that our people can make good projects. Ours live off the compliments of international waste. I must tell you that BiH and its entiets have committed 20 + 20 million KM to international consultants. Well, people haven't spent their money slowly yet. They Javiće report when they need money for new responsibilities for international consultants. But I welcome this attitude that even home-wise brains must participate and I think they have enough and that they could contribute to the development of their country. The 9th party says, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in the direction and management of European integration, giving the greatest possible effect that the day of BiH's accession to the European Union will be as close as possible. I don't know if this possibility exists, but it doesn't matter. Even today, we have a situation where ministers accept to be ministers of ministries for which no part-round work has been defined, so I'd like to say that it's been invented. It would be better if the High Representative imposed a law on the Council of Ministers if he imposed a law on the ministries, so today people would understand what they would do. So, I don't know about this possibility that the chairman, and here I am expressing one concern that there will be a conflict in the relationship with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs. It will be very difficult to distinguish these responsibilities from the chairman as co-ordinator of the 47 European Integration Offices and the Foreign Ministry. Here, God forbid I'm wrong. And, finally, as part of all that he says, I would like to point out that I will pay particular attention to the return of BH authorities to the Islamic world, which was our extremely significant donor and now can and should be our economic partner. I would like to know who brought the assessment that BiH's relations with Islamic countries have been violated, why, and in what way, how we will correct, so I would also agree with this finding. Perhaps the rest of the world is not satisfied with the relationship between BiH and the rest of the world, but if this will be a priority, then please, it raises some other questions. I agree that good relations should be established with all countries of the world and even with the Islamic world, that good relations should be established with neighbours. There is not a word in our mind to return here, because for BiH there is no more work than openness and good co-operation with the neighbours, but I believe that the mandater has in mind how this should be achieved and what I want to say to the ladies and gentlemen, that this from the point of view of the economy and economic outcomes of the ordinary man's life in BiH, that this will be weak, weak and because of us as well as of the environment, because of the conditions in which we are located, but also because of the fact that we do not have the strength and that we are projecting how much this council of ministers will cost, where we are going to settle these funds, and if we are not talking about the balance of macroeconomic, if we are talking about stabilising budgetary flows, entity and state, but I think that there is a way that there is going to be a lot of change in terms, because when the production does not go to BiH, when we are not talking about the new jobs, then we are going to the new jobs, and I think that we have to have to be able to make a lot of money in terms, so that we can be able to make money, so that we can be able to go through the money, so that we can be able to go through the money. I ended up caricing, just so you know, that this is all we're talking about and that it has to be paid by an ordinary BiH citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7177	Mr. Đedović Ibrahim. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7178	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable member of the Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief and more concrete as possible, strictly attached to this exposé we have heard. All I'm saying is extremely well-intentioned, esteeming what the prime minister has invested to get it out, to go out with it in front of us. There are several assessments that I think should be checked at least, and as one of them, on the front page, says that every fifth citizen in BiH is poor. I mean, I don't know what criteria it's about, but I don't think every fifth is poor, and it's enough when I say this, I keep in mind that it's almost half the age on various social benefits, not to mention other categories. The second thing I want to comment on is the lack of deadlines and parameters for most of the actions that are listed to be done and the way they will be done. I would be much happier if for every store as it is, the truth, for some of the above mentioned ones, it was stated until when it would be done and on what basis we measured whether we moved forward and how much. That after a while we could say yes or we didn't do it, we were in the role of MPs, any people carrying functions and calling ministers. 48 As two examples, I therefore cite the action where it is said that it will facilitate and make it a more efficient way to create new jobs, etc. So it takes a lot faster, the cheaper, the more efficient, how much jobs it's going to result in. I'd be particularly pleased if we could say after a year we did this, so after two years we did this planned, either by the stores or by the percentages of those activities. The next thing is, the truth in one case is using a term I hope, where it's talking about young people, I think the prime minister should say I promise or be, and the people should hope and we or those who will support him say, here on the basis of this assurance we will support it to make it more convincing, I think Mr. Terzić will understand it well on purpose. Next is the contradiction in the exposé itself, when I say this, I mean specifically foreign investment, because on page 2 we are said to be first in foreign investment compared to countries in the region, and on page 6, we are said to be lagging behind foreign investment in countries in the region. Something's obviously not right. Here, Mr Špirić has already commented on page 6 and support for the High Representative, apparently those issues about which there are no political consensus between those parties that are participating in the new government to go ahead with the High Representative. The Justice and Job document is listed in the exposé, as one of the colleagues said it did not stand there, however, what I want to point out is that in this document, Justice and the work of 90% of the shops or promises are in the first year of office. There's a quarter of that first year behind us. Who, when and how will it arrive? Next thing you know, our products, I'm taking everything that's said about domestic production with just one note. It says there we'll lose the game before we start. I think it's only a matter of time before we get involved in this game called the European or the world market with our products. They will not wait for us, they play their game and take care of their own and that we must make sure that as soon as possible our products are included in this European market. The next thing I'd like to say is, co-operation with Parliament and I mean the part where you talk about the fact that there are tens of thousands of pages of legal material to be adopted and that it will adopt it in close co-operation with various European institutions and nowhere is this Parliament listed. I didn't support the report just a little while ago just because we were discussing the report a year ago, here's the former Council of Ministers' call and none of them were sitting here at this bench, none of them. We interrupted the session and asked for someone to come and discuss the report. I don't want to believe this is an announcement, too. ...I want to believe that this is also an announcement of such a relationship with Parliament, because at least those legal solutions cannot be formally adopted without these MPs here. And I think we need full cooperation and final understanding to do it for everyone's benefit. I can't really say anything except what I got right before this session. I don't have anything against these people, but there's not enough reason or argument to vote yes or against. I'll be restrained. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7180	I thank Mr. Đedović. Please, let's move on. Mr. Novaković, let Mr. Lagumdžija be prepared. Try to stick to the time specified for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7181	Dear fellow MPs, chairman, gentlemen of the presidency, former ministers and deputies and future ministers and deputies. I will speak very briefly by appreciating the importance that tonight has for the Serbian people, regardless of what some have long shown that they do not know. I'm not going to talk about the opposition and what the opposition said here, because it's obvious that the opposition has a desperate need to speak here and to like it if anyone is obviously successful, because they like each other very much. Of course I won't even talk about teaching here for students. I hope we get passing grades since we've been listening very carefully to these lectures we've had so far. A lot of questions have been asked, and I wonder if there's been a Council of Ministers so far when he hasn't answered any of these questions. Of course, some have also asked such difficult questions as the question of the character of war, likely having the need to say many times that they have not said or should not have told it publicly. What I'm saying here is the position of the SDS. In fact, we have understood this exposé of Mr. Chairman's actually as it says, as an exposé, not a program of the Council of Ministers' work. And we have a lot of objections at the very exposés, but we believe that this council of ministers in its work will show how much strength and courage and ability there is in the end that some of these issues solve whether in the way it says in the exposé or in some other way, but in any case acceptable to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, we do not speak out today about any exposé, and especially about the program of the Council of Ministers, because the ministers who hope to be elected today have not even had the opportunity to build this programme and it is perfectly normal that they have not had it because they have not been chosen so far. We also have objections to the fact that today we do not choose the minister of justice and his deputy. We understand that there is no agreement and that this is the reason, that no consent has been obtained and that that is the reason. We also have observations as our first candidate returned, i.e. he gave up his candidacy and we think it is not good for the citizens and at all for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but fully aware of the situation in which the current Council of Ministers as a technical institution only holds a position, i.e. the situation, and that it brings nothing new or good to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We built our own attitude to this proposal that we have here. We are convinced that the minister of justice, or the place envisaged for the SDS candidate, will be resolved at the next session of the House of Representatives. And I hope that's really how it's gonna be. We have other objections to the Council of Ministers, or proposals, perhaps less personal, more principled, whether the SDS with the election result has received sufficient numbers of ministers or not. But again, I say, making sure that the Council of Ministers needs to be chosen, that way we will give ourselves up. What is positive, i.e. what we are pleased with and what we will vote on is, first of all, the satisfaction that the SDS is returning to the Council of Ministers through its ministers and deputies and is thus returning to power, i.e. to rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of joint bodies. 50 Another satisfaction is the fact that the Serbian people's agreements included three very important ministerial posts and deputy ministers' seats, and that is one of the reasons why we will support this concept, as well as these human resources. Of course, all that I have said, that is, that this council of ministers and these ministers will have the support of SDS for solutions that are acceptable to this party and also for all citizens, but also, regardless of today or any other commitment to solutions that are not sufficiently acceptable and quality support will be lacking. In the end, I would like to wish this council of ministers, if they are chosen, a great deal of happiness and success in the work, because they will obviously, with all the knowledge that I assume they have and need. And finally, I would like to ask my fellow Members that they too appreciate that this, that this session today should be completed a little early in order for us to respond to some of the obligations that we have made earlier, counting that this session will take a little bit longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7182	Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare, he's next. And I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7183	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bureau members, the esteemed Presidency of Parliament, dear fellow Members and colleagues, I must sincerely admit that I expected, as is normal in similar situations, that after Mr. Terzić, the representatives of the least said political parties who support the parliamentary majority and who have been delegated in a certain way to members of the Council of Ministers and their deputies to take the floor and to sort of stand behind the chairman as logical. At least that's how it looks in the countries of parliamentary democracy, and that's why we've been saving ourselves a little bit to hear others, since we're the opposition, it's time to talk later. I am truly sorry that this has fallen into this day and that people have obligations. Let me remind you, this is the seventh session of the House of Representatives since the election. I guess we're going to plan these sessions a little bit better in the future, because it's going to be a way to expect it to always be an emergency, that Parliament can meet every day, that we come to work in the morning and the chairman says today is a session and we meet. That would be normal. But since there are us who are not professionally in Parliament, nor will we be in Parliament, we must plan our obligations. There are people who also work. And it would be good if in the future and I hope that the new chairman of these suggestions and the chairman of the new one, because Parliament's sessions will mainly depend on the work of the Council of Ministers, that we are planning this time better in the future. I would ask you to understand this statement of mine most well-meaningly and all of us who have spoken here, whether we're the government or the opposition, will find something that's worth it. It is clear to each of us today who makes up the parliamentary majority. The Council of Ministers says that well. It is clear that this parliamentary majority exists, it is clear that today we will congratulate these people on the election. But this exposure, no matter what we've heard here, we've heard so that the exposé has nothing to do with the program of the new council of ministers' work. We have heard that people from the 51 parliamentary majority are asking the question of how they will vote for individuals or for a whole. We heard that again, the representatives of the parliamentary majority say they will not vote for what the chairman said and they do not view this as something to be declared because they do not agree with what he has said to a large extent. We've heard a lot of things. But I will speak very clearly and precisely about what this exposé is, which I have an obligation as a man sitting in this House. And let what we're talking about here be and it's probably boring for a lot of people who don't sit here and even for media representatives, but we have a duty not to be bored. We have an obligation to make very thorough suggestions, remarks, well-intentioned, and even malicious if they gave it to the chairman, because something would come out of it as a retreat. And that's why I'm going to speak in three straights. First, I'm going to talk about general principles and general principles that have been discussed here. I'm going to say a few things that I think are missing or that I don't think are a good setup. Then I'll speak on the exposé more as an illustration in several elements. And in the end, I'm going to suggest something and a new council of ministers and the chairman and I'm going to make a statement about what I think and the way I'm going to vote. I'm also glad to hear from a representative of the SDS who expressed his satisfaction that they are returning to the Council of Ministers. As it says, they are returning to BiH's power. I think it's good to know what I'm talking about. I'm not expressing that pleasure entirely naturally. I think today they have the satisfaction of all those who will be in power if nothing because they did it. I believe that many will have no pleasure beyond the pleasure of entering power. It's tragic for all of us together and we all know what this leads to. I have the right not to be satisfied and I express my right behind this pay phone, not for myself or for the political party I come from, but for expressing discontent over what I believe is before us. I must admit that I am extremely grateful, and here I thank the Prime Minister for saying that he built his moderate optimism on solid results that he even counted. And I thank him as a man who is part of these results and part of the mistakes. And I believe he has reason for moderate optimism based on what we left for them. I think the goal that's set here is very good and the goals here are not slow like they weren't even in the exposé we heard in I don't know but not to use the wrong word as it's called what we heard last time. I think the diagnosis is very good. No one here slows down reforms, no one slows down the need for political stability in this country. However, neither does anyone dispute what is said here to be reforms regardless of how painful they have no alternative. And I use the opportunity as I thanked him last time, to find that I congratulate the chairman on his courage, so I congratulate him now on twice the courage to count this all here and put it on paper. This is an extremely ambitious program. Here next to a few general places I really have no intention of making cartoons, some general places must always be in this and it's good that they exist. But here are the very precise parameters. And I'm going to say something about these parameters because we're going to call on what's written here tomorrow. We'll invite all the men who sit in the Council of Ministers. I think here one question that's being asked is quite logical. I understand how Mrs Gadžić, Mrs Marić, Mr Ivanić and Mr Kebo will take over the ministries. That's quite clear. I don't understand, and I would like to know that Mr. Halilović and Mr. Čolak, Dokić and the SDS minister to be appointed as soon as they get confirmation, what will 52 take over now? In fact, we don't know that we have the Council of Ministers Act, the ministry laws are in the draft. I am only interested in what dynamics this is meant to do, and I think it would be good for Parliament to be aware of it, just so that we can plan our commitments as soon as possible for this ministry law to come before Parliament and that as soon as possible, four ministries can be established by this one. Here's a particular question that I want to draw attention to, which is that you don't see here in a certain way, I welcome that there's not much to talk about entity affairs here, which is a lot of entity governments here can't see in the exposé, you can't see at all, not even cantonal. But the mass of things that stand here in the exposé that the new council of ministers is bound to be bound by is from the authority of the entity and the canton, and the question is, how are these things meant to be solved? Will these things that are said here, will they be simply explained to us tomorrow that they are outside our jurisdiction? Otherwise I'm also obliged to say it works, this technical matter one. I think it is completely irrelevant in the extreme case, as most can be agreed, to vote on the Council of Ministers or on members individually about what counterpart Belkić was talking about. Anyway, let me remind you by Article 115. 3. He refers to point 67, which again speaks of electronic voting that we do not have. However, it also says that the electronic vote we do not have when voting on the Council of Ministers must be voted on so as to see which one of us is individually what he voted on, which is probably the conclusion that we will have to vote on this individually, that he will call us to vote, because that is the concrete application of this member. And I think that's good, although I don't see the reason why it would be voted by the person, because according to the interpretation we heard in the statements earlier not accepting the Council of Ministers that the prime minister exposed him in some parts of it means in a certain way not to accept and the concept of the mandate. There's a few good things going on here. You see, in 2002, it's in the world. We all knew the years of the economic crisis. This economic crisis has not affected us in the way that the rest of the world has affected us. The second thing is that our economic opportunities have been difficult on their own. In 2003, it is the year in which I would like to say, to ask the Prime Minister if, since the projections used here are mainly referred to the IMF's views, or to be referred, as far as I am, I apologize, because only now I have seen it as everyone else, they are based on the KAS report on the progress made by the World Bank practically, and not the IMF, because I see that a good number of parameters, I recognize them from the KAS which is true in that time horizon, but I guess I saw that some extrapastrations were made, so I see that there is a very brave 2006 drawing here. This KAS was made in a completely different way to tell the economic environment in which the world moved. The KAS was created in an environment where the economy of Western Europe and the United States was in recession. However, in 2003 it is the year in which the economy of the world emerges from recession and predicts a growth of some 2.5% that was for the first time on “0” in the last 20 years this.....The great congulmer is economic and political. In 2003, it's a year where there's no big world choice. In 2003 it is the year in which the EU expands on us the countries mentioned here. Greece and Italy chair the EU and I think it would be good, I am now not asking the question that needs to be answered here, but it is a suggestion that in the plans of the Council of Ministers the fact that this year they are chairing the EU Council of Greece and Italy. Two countries that are most interested in the EU to stabilise the region. 53 Also, here we can see that in the previous exposé that we had announced some things, I would now just like to remind which ones are missing here and I would like to be given an answer. First of all, I'll look back at some numbers later, because some of my numbers here are a little bit problematic. We heard last time from the prime minister, or chairman of the Council of Ministers today, that business and justice is the base document on which this exposure will develop. We heard that in several steps, including the meeting in which the chairman had with Reis Ulem where both supported work and justice as a basic document on which to go forward. The truth is, we said the work and justice document last time that it should be expanded and with a document of education also adopted by the Peace Implementation Council and this Council of Ministers, and we said about this document that it would be the basis for this. We also mentioned that the Council of Europe, which has given us very clear and precise obligations, I would ask the Council of Ministers to, because we expected it to be very clear here that some kind of obligation will be made before this Parliament that the conditions we have taken as a post-opportunity for the Council of Europe will be the priority of this Council of Ministers and that this Council of Ministers will require Parliament's support that everything that has been accepted in the post-war conditions for the Council of Europe be a matter of priority for this Council of Ministers. Also when it comes to a stand-by arrangement, we know that in December of this year Stand-by arrangement stands out. It would also be good to hear now what the plans are and how much such a thing is in the focus of this council of ministers, given that it is characterized here in a rather superficial way. I would also like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to point out once again his courage to come out with these figures. You see, the figures you've given here are the figures that are binding. These are the figures that will allow this Parliament and all of us to measure the effect of the Council of Ministers. It's a little vague and it would be good to make some of these figures clear, that the projection of the development that's already being talked about here on the third side where it's said that the unemployment rate is going to decrease by 35% compared to the current one, and that the poverty rate is going to decrease by 40%, so it would be good to get a little bit caught up in that, because if the unemployment rate is now 40% and it's going to decrease by 35%, then it's going to fall to 5%, which is a really spectacular result. And if it's the poverty rate, since it says 20% here when it drops by 40%, then we stay at 20%, we come to them, right? Well, it's possible Nijaze isn't going, that it's 35 over 40, which means that the unemployment rate is going to be better called then, or that it's going to be known what we're talking about. If the unemployment rate is reduced from 40 to 30 over the next 4 years, then it's from 40 to 30. If the poverty rate is going to decrease from 20 to 12, then it's 12. I mean correct goal. But in order for us to know how to measure where you went, we want to know if unemployment is going to decrease from 40 to 5 or 40 to 30 and whether poverty will. Well, I know, just let him tell us from this pay phone. Well, as it says here, it can be interpreted in two ways, so he doesn't explain to us in a year or two that he meant what he didn't think. 'Cause it sounds better this way, and then it's gonna sound like less digits. On the other hand here you can see that this would happen here are to give the parameters that I think are very correct, with the question that I have to ask here if, here, it says that the unsustainable consumption that is now over 60%, to be precise, let me correct Minister Hadžiahmetović, it is 63% public consumption now of GIDIPI that will decrease to about 45% which is a good goal and what stands in our documents taken over by the Council of Ministers, it will be reduced among other things by the numbering parameters here. It is said that the fiscal deficit will decrease by 12% in 2002 to 3% in 2006 and that...please 54
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7184	Please, please. Like this. Don't get into the word while the discussions are going on. Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm asking you to say in the shortest sentences what you still thought, if that's possible, because you've taken more time. I have the right to limit the discussion, but here I let the essence of what I have to say be said. And you don't come in, don't say that we don't make unnecessary anxiety. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7185	Mr. Džaferović, very interestingly, that when I came up with the exact data, I couldn't shorten this data. I can give up if you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7186	Continue the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7187	Shall I continue? Okay. I'll cut it short anyway, but unfortunately I'll have to say some numbers, some questions I want to ask. For this reduction of the unsustainable level over 60%, 63 to 65, are appropriate constitutional reforms planned for something like this? And what constitutional reforms, in what dynamics? Because here you have raised 60% to 45% of the current current account deficits from 21% to 11% by the end of the term of office of this council of ministers. What did you say about increasing imports by 20%, about 20% by the way, I don't know if we refer to the same study? In 2004, as far as I know, a 26% increase is planned, a third, a pardon, and a fourth 22%, in order to reduce it to about 19 to 2005. In 2003, what you said is even less than 10% should be 5% this year, in the next 8, in the next 9, which each time counts less. If we refer to the same figures do you then, to say the same thing, take these numbers and drag them through it, do you need any constitutional reforms along with these figures? Or are constitutional reforms necessary for these figures, and what's older than this? Well, I hope I made myself clear to whoever wrote this. He would also pray to be told here whether it is expected in this year and how the relationship towards the return of the old, towards the return of the debt from the outside, because it is primarily about the external problem of the high public debt. Otherwise, public debt should be resolved together in co-operation with entity governments. And I'm just saying this now as an illustration of one question -- is it meant in a certain way, is what you've lied to us today, does it have some kind of correspondence with Mr. Mikerević with the future and Mr. Ivanić as the current prime minister of the entity government, or who is already the president of the federal government? Is this program that you have presented to us here, so I am asking Mr. Terzić a very specific question – the program that you have defined here is the programme of a normal government in which you are the Prime Minister of BiH, who in some way has jurisdiction over entity governments. I know what an exposé is. You want to tell me again as Mr. Novaković, who is pleased to return to power to explain that this is not a program, but that it is an exposé, then we won't get anywhere. So the exposé shows very clearly things that are meant to be done. 55 So my question is – is this which you have put forward a coherent programme of this parliamentary majority which is clear as the day that the parliamentary majority in both entities is in all cantons and at BiH level? That's a very specific question. I would also ask you to tell me, Mr. Chairman, that there have been some concessions from your close political circles, including political circles that make up all parliamentary majority and come perhaps from your club, here as the first thing you put a stable exchange rate and the convergence of domestic currency. Please, does this mean that we can accept that any kind of experiment with the Central Bank that is suggested that the Central Bank could be transformed in terms of the opposite of Karensi's board. Is this something we can count on just to forget these stories that came from you close circles that we think is staying at the Central Bank's policy as you said here in your first indent? I know this may be a bit of an unnecessary question, but you know why I ask you that, because it's an anker who some of you close political circles have seriously expressed that you need to cut yourself now. I'm also interested in whether this VAT and customs that you said was on the state level, I totally agree, does this mean that they will be part of your government or your council of ministers at the same time? For that part, it's important that you tell us today, is that binding these people? Because you can say it's yours, and now you're standing, it'll be theirs. It's just enough for us to tell you that this is yours and that you carry both the obligation and the obligation on them. We'll all find it easier later. I would also ask you to refer to page six, you see, here I put one page six on it myself.....because here you mention the conditionally said things concerning segments of work and justice and that segment of justice. Maybe this isn't the right page. Maybe it goes to someone else, but I'm asking you a question -- where in your exposé there's no lawsuit against Yugoslavia, you know that my attitude is familiar, right, that's not what I'm asking you. Where is the International Court of Justice here in The Hague? Your exposé lacks the ICTY's keybinding – and you will be ipsilon, the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It's a constitutional obligation. That's what the resolution was about last time. Today we have received that this resolution has not been agreed in the College leading your parliamentary majority. Today we read in the newspaper an alleged statement, repeating an alleged statement by the High Representative that the international community has not reached political agreement on the arrest of Radovan Karadžić. It's shocking information to me, incorrect as far as I know, and I hope whoever said it was the one who wrote that statement that would be denied. But please don't get me wrong, but I can't put together a resolution today from seven days ago, a whole kabuki game about whether it's said or not in the BBC. With today's headline that the international community has not made a political decision on the arrest of Radovan Karadžić, your abandonment of the ICTY from this, please, and your statement which is ridiculous to me which says, it is true about your feeling, when you say you have the feeling that the international community has never been more unique, if I understand correctly. Don't get me wrong, but you owe me an explanation for what this is all about. Why do you miss the ICTY today in this exposé here? I repeat, the West has made no political decision to arrest the most wanted war criminal Radovan Karadžić. It's a big headline in the paper today. Last night on federal and state television released. What's this about? And don't tell us about the feeling. Tell me, is this exactly what they are? I have seen 56 opposite feelings that they are, well that's a matter of feeling. I have a feeling that the international community in BiH today is not as unique about a lot of things as it was a while ago. That's my feeling. But I'm feeling about their uniqueness and the head of the international community here who may not have said what he said, I'm not getting into it. And I'm bringing your absence here into a relationship. You have to answer. I would also ask you to use a sentence here that reads – "I would like to stress that I will pay special attention to the return of BiH's fallen reputation in the Islamic world, a closed quote. I'd like you to tell me which Islamic world is this? Is this an organisation of an Islamic conference? Is that ICE? Are these the governments of individual Islamic countries? Which one? You can say that's your feeling. You can say you read it in the paper. You can say that you said that in the campaign, but this is an exposé. You, when such a thing as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you are required here for this speaker to state when something like that is said in front of Oajsi, when something like that is said in front of any government that belongs to that... or when and which embassy said something like that. Beyond that, I'm asking you a question about what Islamic world are you talking about? These are two big things. I hope Mr. Chairman that the fact that I didn't, that I skipped the numbers will be left for another period. And the third thing that's going to be partly in numbers, and it's also important, and that's on page 7 you're talking about when you're talking about communications, which I totally agree with is going to start public debates. Five rows later, you say the concessions of commitment. Right now, let's be clear, this council of ministers has opted for road construction concessions, highways, pardon highways. And coming to a loan from Ebearde of the World Bank and those going towards telling international standards, given that it's the Corridor Vc and that under certain conditions, favourable loans can be pro-located. I'm interested in whether you think public works or concessions are going to be done here? If public works are going to be done then it's also fine. But then we need to know how you mean it, because it's contrary to these concessions that you mentioned here to a considerable extent, to a considerable extent, as a primary determination. And while I'm at communication, I'm asking you a question -- why didn't you say anything to the telecommunications sector, i.e. I specifically ask you to plead, and I'm also asking you to give me a statement on what you think you're doing with the telecommunications sector, especially in the light of a scandal currently under way called ERONET license granted by the Regulatory Agency? We had your statement, we had a statement from OHR, we had a statement, the federal government has a meeting today. We had a statement from the Federal Communications Minister, and we had statements from the proper authorities. You can't be in Parliament today without saying anything about it. I want very clearly and responsibly to state my position that this issue must in itself be in the focus and priorities of this council of ministers and that you must also have a clear and precise view on this subject. In other words, Mr. Terzić, will the Council of Ministers issue a license for the robbery currently under way? The permit that this is the Council of Ministers that is due today refused to issue and had no intention of betraying. Mr. Muratović, did you say anything to me? Okay, I'm sorry, I thought you were, so I wanted to answer you right away. I don't doubt it. In any case, since counterpart 57 Muratović announces that for the pay phone, there will likely be more opportunities for this topic to discuss. And in the end, I just want to ask you a question, because you said we'd join the EU here, I'm interested in when? Is that in this six-year term? And if it's not real, I don't think it's realistic to tell us how you're going to get to these 80,000 pages of the law and how fast are you going towards them? And finally to say all these remarks that I have prepared, and as far as the figures are concerned, that Mr. Novaković would not be late where he's up to, I will give you this well-intentioned in writing, to tell you that here you have the numbers that are a little bumpy with themselves, so it's not fair that I'm opening up the story on that subject now, but I thank you again for your courage to put these figures before us, because it's still a big thing that you've done. It'll be a lot easier for all of us to check in later on where we came from. And at the end of this council of ministers, I wish you and I all good luck and good health. We'll be perfectly natural against it. Unlike you, I belong to a group of people who are pessimistic when it comes to what is waiting for us this year, but we will in our capacity and to the extent that you allow us in Parliament to do everything possible to make it appear that you were right, that your optimism had coverage. Unfortunately, today I have a hard time going forward with some optimism, but I wish you all good luck, both to you and to all who are now coming and be assured that you will have good associates and partners in us to be wrong about our assessment that this is going down the hill. You normally don't have to answer these questions, but I allow Mr. Chairman's right if the mandater doesn't answer any of the key questions to repeat what I insist on being answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7188	It is of course your right, but this session has its own course. I didn't mean to limit the discussion on purpose. So I'm entitled to this kind of debate to limit discussions, but I said I wouldn't restrict MPs, but I'm asking you to take care of the weather. This discussion lasted unusually long and deserved, among other things, my intervention as chairman to limit itself. I didn't do it because I want to respect the rights of the MPs, but let the MPs know that there are procedures here that we will follow. Mr. Bešlagić has a word for it that way. Mr. Bešlagić, I apologize to you. Sit down here, please. Mr. Novaković has a brief replica of Mr. Lagumdžija's exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7189	Well, I only went out to thank Mr. Lagumdžija for respecting my request, so he shortened his discussion and immediately said that we from the SDS were used to this respect while Mr. Lagumdžija was on the Council of Ministers. Thanks again. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7190	Okay. Mr. Selim Bešlagić has his word. And that's how we ended up discussing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7191	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Chairman, the Presidency, allow me to perhaps begin with one remark. Bosnia and Herzegovina was unique for the first time in a long time yesterday. In all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, power went out, exactly, the data. No, no, the information that says that we have a unique thing, even if it was that the power went out, because at least it made us remember to start thinking about those who have no electricity, who have returned to their homes and that's one of the tasks I would say about the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. And I'm going to be very short right now. The whole exposé and debate in this part of my deep conviction was conducted in the area of consumer consumption. It's about social issues, martial arts, pensioners, education. And all the time, certainly, in conditions where we talk about these consumption spheres, and we're not talking about production, it's no wonder that we're going to throw the burden on the fight against corruption, the black market and crime. As long as production doesn't start, and until production has its place in the Council of Ministers, I think we'll fool ourselves that we'll be able to, I'd say new laws, regulations, destroy corruption and the black market and everything. I would like to stress that he would ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers to, not now, but surely in the next time that is ahead, he tells us exactly what measures this will be, and these encouraging measures in the area of production, means in industry, agriculture and science from the point of view if it is necessary to pass laws that will oblige entity governments, but also means the Council of Ministers to support these measures. And finally, after all these discussions and debates, let me see one of my visions. The way out will be very difficult. But it is necessary that the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, and then MPs in this assembly like all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina must achieve one goal, which is to have a common denominator that Bosnia and Herzegovina is our country. If we achieve all the obstacles that are being set before us today, it will be much easier, because then we will know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is our country, and all the other countries that our partners are and we will overcome all that is being presented with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7192	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Since no one has answered the floor anymore, I am concluding the debate, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić is asking for a word and then we move to a statement, to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7193	A little correction just, I didn't ask for a word, but you insisted that I say a few things, otherwise it doesn't matter to me right now. Like this. When it comes to questions asked by Mr Avdić, you know that his parliamentary majority is, with all the review that I have according to the distinguished representative Avdić, that 59 of his parliamentary majority has resolved the question of young people, I would not have to start my exposés with youth issues, and I would be much happier if I didn't need it, and the same applies to public spending. What's about Mr. Belkić's answer is what business and justice is. I see business and justice as one obligation since the document that has been agreed by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community as one document that is a starting point, and can become indicative depending on how and how we apply what it is and how much it is, however, every document in the world, and in this country is particularly subject to an analysis of the time when it applies, from the time it is being corrected. So if it turns out to be something that is very immutable and very good, it is certain that we will continue to spend it. But it can only grow to the point of origin. I really don't have anything to say to Mr. Gligorić. I'm sorry if I couldn't get him some channels two or three days ago to bring in my exposés, but in principle, I don't think an exposé would have been an exposé if the public had full knowledge of what this was about, before this was brought out at the meeting of this house. Mr Gligorić obviously had a dozen things written that, regardless of what was written in the exposé, he has the right and wants to say to explain from this pay phone he says to the public so that I really don't have any questions that were generally general and did not refer to things that are in the exposé. But I want him to, I could ask him one question, although I don't want to ask the MPs questions, I know the situation is absolutely the other way around, but the question is, does Mr Gligorić even want to work on the Council of Ministers? So it's obvious that we have more ministry ministers than the budget has done. But if we have a good will to have and to operate the Council of Ministers, we'll find a way and how we'll handle it. But his tending questions in that direction and discussion really lead me to the conclusion that he absolutely doesn't want as an MP of this house to have a Council of Ministers that works. And surely, I am most sorry that I cannot answer a single question to the distinguished representative Lagumdžija for the simple reason that he gave me that right at the end of his presentation. If he doesn't, there's no way I can change his mind and get him to vote and support the exposés and the Council of Ministers, I really don't see any reason to answer the very interesting questions he's asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7194	Thank you. The debate is closed. We're moving on to a plea. Please, nice. I'm the one who concluded the argument. I've closed the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Please, nice. You've had a chance to speak long enough. Tell me that business provision that says it's the right thing to do. Please, nice. What replica? Well, this wasn't a discussion, this was a review of your discussions. Where did you find your place of business? Well, I'm the one running this session with College. So I said finely that the debate, that the debate was concluded, gave just one more word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and 60 are now moving to a statement. Please, nice. Please, nice. That's enough. So today I really tried to make sure all MPs had the opportunity to speak. Please, and you have, I have not denied any MP the right to say a word. But some procedure has to be respected here. We can't go on forever, so we can't drag things around. Please, nice. This is where I want to introduce you to the voting procedure. We move to a statement on the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint ministers and deputy ministers to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, nice. Saću would say that, in the context of this proposal, his proposal goes to this final stage. Please, nice. Please, nice. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both in 2000 and 98, and in 96, respectively, this is the fourth meeting of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so last time, and was done on the basis of the same Rules of Procedure, the vote on the composition of the Council of Ministers takes place in the package, for a decision, for a list, for ministers and deputies. So it was done, I repeat on the basis of the same Rules of Procedure and last time after the November 2000 elections. Please, nice. Let me explain the procedure. Let me explain the procedure. Furthermore, when appointed governments are approved at all levels, starting with cantonal, entity, and here is the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, parliamentary approval goes against the list. So that's another fact I want you to know. And a third thing. As regards the approval of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the application of Article 67(3) may be required. The Rules of Procedure which states that each MP must be manifested or that the result of the vote must show the will of every MP in the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina by giving Article 115 paragraph 3 the possibility to the chairman of the House of Representatives in which it is said - the approval of other members of the Council of Ministers will be subject to the same procedure, but the chairman may limit the number of votes and their length and leave out the execution of Article 67(3). I will not leave out the execution of Article 67(3). Home will plead that, Mr. Belkić. Your proposal will therefore be put to the vote. I just want to say this. Under the existing rules, we are pleading for the list, namely the decision of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, which contains ministers and deputy ministers and lists the deputy and chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of the Order of the Two Ministers. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. And now we have to decide here. I leave the House to decide if we're going to do it by making an individual statement about it, individually by calling it out, or we'll do it the way we've done it the way we've done it so far. That's what Dom needs to decide. Here's to the pay phone. Now we're only talking about voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7196	Maybe you didn't understand me very well. I wanted to interpret him. I am not talking about how to vote on us MPs, I am talking about how to vote for the proposed candidates and I asked 61 to respect Article 115(3), where it says: "Approving other members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be subject to the same procedure as the Presidency's procedure." That's what I was talking about and I said we do not insist on programmes, but it is enough for us to propose candidates to declare before this Parliament whether they support the programming documents we are talking about. And the rest we don't insist on, etc.itd. I'm talking about an individual statement. Mr. Chairman, the answer remains whether or not the deputy ministers' check has been carried out at least in those areas where the Ministers' check was carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7197	I thank you, Mr. Belkić. I understand you perfectly. So you are, there are two groups of problems here. One, please nicely, one group of questions concerns whether to vote individually for each man who is here, so on the list. And you, in your initial presentation, pointed out that you advocated so that the ministers could be voted in the package, and when the deputy ministers were concerned that then each individual card was raised. That's what you said and I remembered it. Please be nice, you said it that way at the pay phone. If you're not, correct me, please. We're talking now, Mr. Belkić, we're talking about a vote now. You said, so we'll listen to the stenogram, you said that's why, and you tell me if I'm wrong, and I followed what you said, that you were to vote for ministers in the package, and when you're deputy ministers to vote individually for each deputy. I understood you so much. Please, if I'm wrong, tell me I'm wrong. Please, nice. Please, nice. We're talking about a vote here. That's it, but then I explained it. Wait a minute. I'm speaking now, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm talking. When it comes to speaking of. Please I have told you about how it was voted in this Rules of Procedure in 2000. Under this Rules of Procedure, the Council of Ministers was voted in the package and for all governments, I repeat again at entity levels and cantonal level in the package "for" and "against" the list. After all, this is the decision of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and we confirm that decision or do not confirm that decision. We therefore refer to the decision of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers which contains names. And that's one group of questions. And so I think and so I interpret the Rules of Procedure and so interprets the Rules of Procedure of the College, because we have discussed this issue to vote here for a decision with the elements in it, or against that decision, or abstaining from that decision. Sixty. Please, nice. But I need to talk here now about another thing that interferes with this first thing. Article 115(3) says this, i.e. point 2. and point 3. – “after the chairman reads the decision, the term appointed to explain his political programme on what the debate will take place”, says here, and it is important to mention this about the approval of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, “the approval and appointment will be put to the vote in accordance with Article 67(3)” 62 And then the next position says: “Authorisation for other members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be subject to the same procedure, but the chairman may limit the number of speeches and length and leave out the execution of Article 67(3)” Here I am, chairing the implementation of Article 67(3). But you can see what Article 67 of Section 3 is talking about. – Article 67(3), please, please, just so the public knows this – “when votes on amendments to the Constitution, approval of appointments of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, or when it requires 1/3 of the House, the electronic voting system will also be registered the way in which each individual MP voted. This information will be made public.” Article 68 says, “in the event that the electronic voting system is not usable, or at the request of 1/3 of the House, the vote will be made by raising hands, or voting cards.” And then Article 68(2) says, “the chairman, with the help of the Vice-President and Secretary of the House, will count how many votes are in favour, how many against and how many abstentions, taking into account the fulfilment of the other requirements set out in Article 65 of Article 1 of this Act.” The Rules of Procedure do not refer to whether to vote in favour of the list or individually for candidates on the list, but whether we, as MPs, will suddenly vote as we vote by raising the charts or we will plead individually. And I leave you with this opportunity to plead and that is my explanation, Mr. Belkić. I ask the House, so I ask the MPs – will Article 67 paragraph 3 apply here. The Rules of Procedure and will they vote individually, each MP so as to say why? Is it for a decision, against a decision or abstention? Or we'll do it the way we did it. I ask the House who it is, please, because this is a proposal to be an individual vote of MPs, so each MP should publicly say why he votes. For a decision, against a decision or abstention for a decision. Who's in favour of this way of voting? Are you listening to me? Please. Yes, you can. Here you go. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7198	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting in with Rule 55. I have here asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers three capital issues - related to the International Court of The Hague; - robbery around the third network; - constitutional changes related to what he was talking about. I asked for three capital issues. Mr. Chairman told me that since I'm gonna be against him, he won't answer me. It's something I think is shocking in every parliament on the planet. I, in accordance with article 55, ask only to tell him – I want these three answers from you. You don't have to give it to me, I want it written down for this speaker that I asked for and that he refused to do that because he doesn't like how I'm going to vote. 63 E now in accordance with Article 55, I invite you, do not put this to a vote. The way you conduct the session, it gives me the right to call on a member of the 69th Mr. Chairman who says "the vote and the call will be applied when the chairman or vice-president, and none of you will, assess that it is necessary to remove doubts about the regularity of the results of the vote". Thank God this Rules of Procedure also stands for the Vice-President or for the proposal of the President of the Members' Club. So, you have a proposal for a club of MPs that I belong to put this under Rule 69. Do not wrap us with 55, 67.3., 115. point 2. or 3., but in Article 69. you are obliged, at the request of one club, to ask each man here whether he is “for” or “against” and whether he will be for the package or individually you will decide. In a member with Point 3. that's your right. [[It is not understood whether it is a member of 67 or 61]] But are we going to plead collectively, or are you going to start each of us here in order, call us, it's your next member, you can see. Let the secretary prepare to call us, to remain registered. And I doubt it, because of the way you don't run the session, I doubt it, and when you can vote again, I'll say I doubt how it's counted. Because the way you're in this session, instead of being solemn, dignified, with dignity, you're making it here into a little authoritarian exercil.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7199	Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you for your discussion. I didn't expect you to finish your performance that way. I will not answer these last words you sent to me as the chairman of the House. I'm not here to blame anyone for not responding to the situation, I'm here to respect the Rules of Procedure and I've publicly read it and presented it to the media. And you, let it be, let it remain for you concerning these words which you have directed to me as the chairman of the House. Please, nice. We individual vote can take place in the next situation. Voting will be applied when the chairman and vice-president, or at the proposal of the representative of the MPs' club, is a matter of assessment, therefore, or of our own assessment, or of the assessment that our assessment comes upon your proposal, Mr Lagumdžija, that it is necessary to remove doubts about the regularity of the vote. So I have to vote first, so I have to vote first, and then you have to say whether you doubt the results of the vote or not. But I keep going, so I keep going where I left off. My question to the House, please let the stenogram follow this well, my question to this high House was, since there was therefore a motion here for individual voting, for the individual vote of MPs to be declared by individual MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7200	I didn't say that. [[speaks from place]] 64
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7201	You're not. Please, I'll give it up nicely then. I'm asking Dom who it is. You'll only be able to ask for it when you suspect the regularity of this vote that I'm about to cast, Mr. Lagumdžija. I ask the House who it is to confirm the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint a deputy. Please, nice... I answered that question. What didn't I answer? You didn't answer? Please, nice. Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute, Mr. Žigić. You're Mr. Žigić. Please answer the question. Come on. Here's the answer to the question, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7203	I'm sorry I really didn't answer the question that MP Belkić immediately gave. So literal consent was sought only for the minister's positions. I did not ask for deputies, but I did send all candidates for both ministers and deputies and those who are not wanted, and I sent them to the OHR ten days ago and I didn't get any feedback that someone couldn't satisfy that they needed a physical check. So, international institutions knew unlike the individual MPs ten days ago who was the candidate for minister, who was the candidate for deputy and did not react negatively to me as the leader of this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7204	Here you go. May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Mr. Belkić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7205	To repeat once again what was the essence of our request, that is, our proposal. We asked for today's declaration under Article 115 of Section 3. So individually. We didn't ask individual ministers to present the programs, we asked them to declare the programme that you chaired here. So instead of voting that the practice that does not oblige us, in my opinion it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, to apply literally the Rules of Procedure. Nothing else. Have the Secretary of the House give us an interpretation, and we'll see who's right. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7206	Please, nice. There you go, and we're done. Mr. Izet Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7207	Ladies and gentlemen, I think here is trying to forget what you've already said here. On behalf of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Beriz Belkić made it clear and asked that this parliament supports the request, to support the request that the deputy ministers be checked by the OHR because the biographies we received minutes before the House meeting are hollow and we have no information on the candidates. It means we ask the OHR to check out our candidates. If they are not regular within a month to be removed from the post of deputy minister, if they are regular they will remain deputy ministers and everything is fine. But that we as Parliament are asking the OHR to check on us, because we have no other way to check the candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7208	Please, I thank Mr. Žigić. I repeat here again is the chairman of the Council of Ministers who made the decision and signed a decision in which the names of ministers and deputy ministers and all this parliament can vote for this decision, vote against that decision and be abstention from that decision. Mr. Belkić, please, I have read the Rules of Procedure, I have said the practice and the College of this House interprets that for the decision of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers votes in the package, votes for a decision, against a decision or abstention. But you, if you insist that I put the voting vote to the vote, you're looking for it. So we can talk about it. I'll do it, it's your right to put it on. Please be nice and then we'll move on to the plea. I ask the MPs, although this is the position of the College against the Rules of Procedure, but at the proposal of Mr Belkić, who is to vote for individual names from name to name for ministers and deputies? Please. Here's who's for? Did you count it? Who's against it? Did you count it? Abstained? Thank you. Give me the results. Please, nice. I'm publishing the results on Mr. Belkić's proposal. Out of 40, 9 were for, 21 against, there were abstentions 9. I konstatuj that the proposal did not win the parliamentary majority. We move to a statement on the Council of Ministers' decision. Who is it to confirm this House's decision by the Council of Ministers to appoint the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina? The way you got them today and how did he present the chairman of the Council of Ministers? 66 Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. Give me the results. Thank you. So here's the deal. I declare that out of the 40 MPs present, 24 voted in favour, 9 were against, there were 7 abstentions. We're moving on to a plea. So the decision was given to the general parliamentary majority. We're going to vote on entities. I'm asking from the Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. I ask from Republika Srpska who's in favour? Please, nice. So here's the deal. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Federation voted 15, Republika Srpska voted 8. And I announce that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has confirmed the decision of the Council of Ministers to appoint a deputy chairman, minister and deputy minister in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the text that this was delivered to us today in writing and that the chairman of the Council of Ministers explained it in his presentation. Before I give one short break of ten minutes I'd be just now, please nice to do one more thing, and then we'll go for a solemn statement. Let's just do one more thing. At this point, we lost a member of the Croatian People's College. I invite the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Nik Lozančić, to take his word for it, to finish it, and then we'll take a solemn statement and take a break from 1o-15 minutes as agreed. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7209	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to take advantage of the possibility of the first date for this address to congratulate the chairman of the Council of Ministers and newly elected ministers and vice-presidents, and to appreciate that so far the second vice-president, Mr. Bariša Čolak, was elected to the Council of Ministers, and because of the incompatibility of my duties, I propose on behalf of the Club that in this position, the second vice-president of the House of Representatives, Mr. Martin Raguž, born in Stoc, graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences, married, father of three children, has so far acted as a number of responsible responsibilities in the institutions in authority from the level of the municipality to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the legislative and executive authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7210	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I thank you. There's no discussion, is there? Does anyone want to talk about this? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. 67 I ask you who is for the second deputy chairman of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Security of the former second Deputy Mr Bariša Čolak, to be elected by Mr Martin Raguž. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Just a little bit, please. We're going to a statement on the entities. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. I'm publishing the results of the vote. Out of 40 votes to 27, 11 were abstentions, against no one. So the general parliamentary majority of the entities was won. The Federation voted 19, the Republika Srpska vote 9. So there are entity majority. And I find that Mr Martin Raguž was elected to the second deputy chairman of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed guests, I invite ministers and deputy ministers whose appointment has been approved to enter, here I think it is best here in this part to make a solemn statement, and after the solemn statement of the break is 15 minutes. Please, please. So after the formal statement, the break is 30 minutes and the break will take up to 17 hours. Can we start Samir? Ladies and gentlemen, ministers and deputy ministers will repeat the text I read. We're starting by making a solemn statement. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties entrusted to me by respecting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina to protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens of the Dama and gentlemen of ministers, deputy ministers on behalf of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in my personal name I give you my sincere congratulations on today's approved appointment. I wish you a lot of success in your work. Break till 5:00. 68 /PAUSE 30 MINUTES / We continue to work. 33 MPs are present. So today, by leaving Mr. Čolak, we have practically lost one MP to the Electoral Commission's reaction, which approves the mandate for the MPs. That's the question, I'm asking Mr. Čolak and the HDZ Club to send this matter to the Electoral Commission urgently, and we'll follow it. The Parliamentary Assembly can do that. I expect you to do it, because he needs to react on his own based on incompatibility. Please. Here's Mrs. Secretary says we'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more work to do, and we have a request from representatives of political parties from the Serbian people to hurry up, to do as much as possible, in as short a time as possible, to be effective because a number of MPs have certain obligations and desires for the New Year's Eve calendar. I'm going to continue my work, and I'm asking you right now when the next item is the agenda, Ad. 3. MPs' questions that if anyone has written questions to deliver them to refrain from going out behind a pay phone to move on. If you respect my suggestion. If you don't respect me, there's nothing I can do about it. Thank you very much. If you have a written question, please forward it to the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat in writing, our secretary who will consider it and will be the same as being set up for the speaker. So we move to the fourth point of the agenda, Ad. 4. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach consensus on the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for criminal law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure you've received the report. The Commission did not agree on this, and I am obliged to put the proposal to a vote now, and then we will vote on the entities. So first we vote on who's in favour of this procedure per article. Mr. Potočnik. I don't have anything, but we're already in. Yes, of course. Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7212	I'm really sorry it turned out like this, because I've been waiting to catch a chance, but that's how the session ran. We have in front of the DNZ BOSS Club and the Party working to improve HDU's proposal, appreciating that he is in a hurry to fellow Serbian nationality, he will appreciate that we have a point about the Election Commission that will either be on the run, or he will take a long time off, I think it would be correct to interrupt this and schedule a new appointment, and that each of them can go home and celebrate there with a sonm of anyone who wants to. I think it would be extremely correct on our side. Here, thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7213	I thank Mr. Đedović. Look, I'd very much like to suggest it to you here. I talked of course. This session is not scheduled without agreement, including political parties, which have also been elected from the Serb people's ranks. So she wasn't scheduled right away, so you know, it was taken care of. We've got a few urgent things we can do if we're expedient. Please, by the 20th we must, by the 20th, not to meet again, we must determine this delegation. That's, like, an emergency point. So let's go. We could've done something already. Wait, here. Wait, please, we'll be going soon. Please, I won't take the time, I've been talking. We are therefore passing, so the Commission has not reached a report. Now I have to ask you again who it is that the law of, the criminal law goes according to the emergency, or that shortened procedure. Who's in? This is now a vote. Please. The second round of voting is. Who's in? Did you count it? Yes, it is. Thank you. No, no, please. No, no, please. It's a hearing. Mr. Bešlagić. The Rules of Procedure are like this. So don't let me read you a provision. Sure. You'll see something. We'll proceed with the procedure. Listen to what I'm talking about. I'm not doing anything in my head. You should ask. What are we going to do now? Let's go to the second round of voting. Am I asking who's against it now? Dom I ask who's against it? _________: First we determine the total size.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7218	I told the Rules of Procedure there was no time for walking.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7219	This Rules of Procedure, Mr Gligorić, has built-in standards and one of the standards and, of course, the time an MP needs to spend from place to pay phone. I mean, you don't need to regulate it with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7220	The chairman of his time said I could answer from the post, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not supposed to, but I have to come out here for a stenogram, so that's why. This is what I wanted to suggest. Take care when we talk about standards, Mr. Chairman. The standards of the Council of Europe clearly say that the opposition should be represented, and we also took care of it last time, so the opposition also had members in the Council of Europe, not to mention who. Take care of it, because they give priority to the opposition in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7221	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Of course I have that in mind, to answer your question immediately. So that's what the College has in mind, that's what this thing has to do with the establishment of the entire composition of this committee. I, don't let me tell you what my sighting is. I also said it at a session of this, what's the name of the College when we were establishing this proposal, but here's Mr. Duraković asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7222	I support this proposal by Mr Gligorić for at least three reasons. The first is that it is truly described by certain rules in Europe and Europe is graciously looking to find someone from the opposition. I'm even more afraid I wouldn't confirm those delegates by saying they're exclusively from the ranks of the ruling parties. Second, it was a previous practice. Third, I would say from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest at least profitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7223	Thank you, Mr. Duraković. Mr. Špirić asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Špirić. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7224	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, on the line of what Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Duraković said, I would like to say that somehow we, the joint commission of both homes, are forever slaves to different types of letters, which, by chance, are ordered. And it is a practice for this commission to come from the last call, and here we begin in the same way of unnecessaryness, and it would not be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina to leave this parliament in a parallel letter in which the opposition is looking for a place in the commission. You won't convince us that the representatives of HDZ, the SDA and the SDS are from the opposition. Because it's possible that you've agreed in advance that the opposition resides elsewhere, there in another home. I think and did not say again the speed of the rabbit caught in parliamentary democracy, it could complicate this country's life so that it would be good for you to get the strength between these three places to be one place of opposition. To really show that we're a serious home. You have the majority you can vote on what you have suggested, but I will be one of those who will write to the European Parliament and say that it would be good for this country when someone travels outside, members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, that it would be as good as any other normal democratic state that there is always some of the opposition in the delegation. So it would be good for the country, not individually for anyone. And in that sense, I am asking you that, if you have to think about it a little bit more, one place out of these three is the opposition, to ask for one proposal at that level. And therefore the nations shall be represented again evenly by the constitutional nations, and also by the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7225	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Does anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am fully aware of the provisions of article 145. The Rules of Procedure of our House which speaks of the need for parliamentary delegations to reflect the image of Parliament and I will, as chairman, thus I can tell you that I can represent this position in the College when it is therefore completed, i.e. formed a complete composition of the delegation. Because besides these three delegation members, there are two other members and a delegation should have five deputies. I don't want to talk about any earlier practice. I do not want to talk about the practice of the previous Parliament Assembly, because I have well experienced this practice and I am telling you that I, as chairman, will advocate not to repeat what was in the 2000-2002 term. So he'll be honored, which means I'm in charge of the Rules of Procedure of this House, Rule 145. Since there were no other proposals, I put this proposal to the vote. Who's up for that proposal? Please count the votes. Did you count the votes? Yes, it is. Thank you. Who's against this proposal? Did you count it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. 76 Give me the results. We're going after the entities. Right? I'm asking from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you very much. I ask from Republika Srpska who's in favour? Let me publish the results. So please, like this. Of the 38 MPs in the general vote, 22 voted in favour, against 11, abstention 3. So general parliamentary support exists. By entities. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it voted 15 in favour, which is more than 1/3, from Republika Srpska voted 8 in favour, which is also more than 1/3. And I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has chosen three members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina who come from this home to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and how follows: - Dr Muratović Hasan, Head of Delegation, Member of course and members of the delegation - Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and - Mr Martin Raguž. We're crossing. This will be notified to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and the criteria will be respected. We move to the next item on the agenda, that's point ten, that's ad.10. The proposal for a decision on the establishment of printing business from the state interest of the proposal for a decision was received this morning at the beginning of the session. The decision was previously adopted in the House of Peoples before the end of last term. I'm opening a debate on this. Mr. Špirić Nikola. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7226	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and suggest how we can get out of this. It turns out here that this home is proposed by Nikola Špirić as the chairman of the House. I got this on the table this morning, believe me, I had no idea. I asked Secretary of the dom of Jadranka Tomić if it was his idea, did he forward it? And the Secretary of the House didn't forward this, and I have to tell you that my position was positive about this decision in the House of Peoples, because I made a positive statement about this decision. The decision makes sense because it adopted the House of Peoples and should be binding on all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we go through it and through this home it's a decision with a legal force or a law, and then it would be in conflict with the Law of Conflict of Interest, not a conflict of interest in competition, with the Competition Act. We're doing a unnecessary job, doing a job that's going to complicate relationships, and it's not going to solve it, and that's why I'm here as a proposing, here if no one asked me, I'm pulling this off so we don't make a mistake. 77 I do not know whose idea it is, that outside of the chairman's house, outside the secretary of the house, sign and send to this house by hand. I don't know who else has the strength to do that in this country. But it looks like it does. I'm telling you as I still chair the House of Peoples, there's no other. He's still alive and Secretary of the House. I asked him who did this? No Niko knows. What's this? This is unnecessary. Please in the Constitution where the motionary is called, we need to read what it says. Article 4 c. says – the adoption of all laws requires consent of both homes. It doesn't say anything. I've read the Bosnian version or the Bosniak version, so it says it's a decision with the power of the law. The Bosniaks. Yes, there is. We'll arrange for you and me to have a lot of things.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7227	Bosnian, Bosnian, Mr. Špirić. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7228	But please, I am reading to you the Constitution and I am asking the question of who is doing this work in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament? Why does anyone need this? Why are you making me take this back as Chairman of the House and now I don't know what the procedure is? Why force someone to, the graphic workers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, re-explain disdain, bring the poor into one situation where someone is willing to, someone against. But if this is adopted with the legal force, then this is either collapsing or conflicting with the Competition Act. And we want a market economy, we want to go to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7229	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7230	So I'm pulling this off as a proposal because I'm here in a memo, to put you out of your misery.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7231	Anyone else want to talk? Is it Nikola? He's the promoter of the House of Peoples, not Nikola the Proposer. That's the problem. And Nikola was in his home as a promoter. I ask you nicely to get out of this situation, so that we don't question this decision, it's no problem that the matter waits another 10-15 days. So it's not a problem, and in order not to question the decision, I suggest you do the next thing. Let us take this point off the agenda and instruct it to the Constitutional Commission that the Constitutional Commission is reading us further about the procedure on this matter. It's the only possible conclusion in this situation. I'm putting the motion to vote on this conclusion. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Did you count it? Yes, it is. Do you mind? Do you mind? Against? There isn't. Abstained? Drained -1 I find that, therefore, most of the votes, with one abstention, have adopted this conclusion regarding this decision. 78 We move to item 11 of the Ad.11 agenda. Giving consent to ratification a) of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Portugal on mutual improvement and protection of investments I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's to give consent? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House unanimously agreed to ratify the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Portugal on the mutual improvement and protection of investments under b) Understanding on the ratification of the Protocol on the control of illegal acts against the security of permanent platforms located in the Epicontinental Belt I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to give consent? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I find that the House unanimously without votes, so against and withheld, has given consent to the ratification of the Protocol on combating illegal acts against the security of permanent platforms located in an epicontinental belt. And under c) of the Convention on the control of illegal solicitation of ratification of the Convention on the control of illegal parts against the security of maritime navigation I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you who's so we can give consent? Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Convention on the Restraint of illegal acts against the security of maritime navigation unanimously, so without votes against and without abstentions. Here we also have the views of the Foreign Affairs Commission which has given its support, of course, to these acts. 79 I point 12. Ad 12. The Electoral Commission form This is a debate about that Electoral Commission form that requires MPs and other officials to fill out all of those numerous sections that we should fill out and we need to fill out by the 23rd of this month, because it is 30 days. I'm opening a debate on this subject. Who wants to talk? Mr. Špirić Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7232	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm also proposing this item of the agenda and I don't think we should waste any time in a long debate. I am prepared to define the conclusion that the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina forms an ad hoc commission from representatives of all political parties who, together with the creator of this questionnaire, will define a questionnaire that might be appropriate to the function, the status of MPs, and that it is transparent and that it is not in conflict with the Law of Conflict of Interest. So this questionnaire and the questionnaire on the state of the MP, and it would be good for us as MPs to know where the archive is being stored. Why is she serving? So we know the purpose and what it's for and that that's the conclusion. To form a commission that together with those who created it will define it to fit the purpose and purpose and be understandable and that we can fill it quickly. That's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7233	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Munib Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7234	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, in order not to take up much time, I think this initiative is welcome, because we all feel the same way. Whoever did a little review doesn't know how to fill in or there'll be incomplete data. But I wouldn't talk about it. I suggest that for the next session, let's see the procedure, to prepare an initiative for the adoption of this law for one basic reason why we cannot change the law because it was brought by the High Representative. And for these reasons, we need to adopt this law in the first session and go into the procedure for amending this law, because it is absolutely not acceptable for these conditions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7235	I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7236	This agrees in the meantime that what fellow Špirić is to see is to explain to us what they have to do with this. I was still going to say that I was left with a discretionary right to the Electoral Commission or to international organisations to interpret what they want. For these reasons, it needs to be changed. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7237	I'm thanking you. Who else wants to talk? Please nice, I suggest you do this. On the basis of this conclusion proposed by Mr Špirić, we should adopt, on the basis of what Mr Špirić was talking about, in my opinion, and this is my proposal now, and I think Mr Špirić will agree with me, because I accept, therefore, this is basically what he suggested. First, let us, then, express our commitment and devotion to all the provisions of the law and, among other things, the law of conflict of interest while it is as it is, until we change it. Then, in a second position, let us express our dissatisfaction with the request of the Electoral Commission on the content of the form delivered to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, because there are many, many features that are unusual and unnecessary, the right to tell you. That's where they have to be checked. When he saw that form, he knew, but the pattern had to be. The forms must be filled in to paint what in the normal world should be a picture of every MP and every official elected at any, at any level of any government, so that would be another. Third, we have a commission, we have the Administrative Commission, which we have chosen. I wouldn't form any ad-hoc commission, that would be one huge commission. We had nine members of the Administrative Commission and had us task the Administrative Commission to carry out this communication with the Election Commission and to do everything Mr Špirić talked about. You see, Mr. Lagumdžija, we can do this for the Council of Ministers, but here people think it's only when it comes to it, that it's just a matter of MPs here in Parliament. What would you suggest? How would you suggest? Not the Administrative Commission. I can accept that, too. Okay. Here you go, Dr. Duraković. Dr. Duraković has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7238	I know it's patience at the end, I'm sorry... I couldn't stand this. I have a suggestion. It's the first time I've seen this. I'm relieved. Well, the name and last name of my father's sister's granddaughter. Grandma's grandmother's grandmother, so that's amazing. To make a commitment to this home, to send an urgent protest from this session to those assholes from the Electoral Commission. They insult us. Well, this wasn't working for the South American slaves either. So what do they think? So where's our cheek? Where's the dignity? We're looking for a replacement of all those who asked for this and we're gonna make a European fuss about it. Well, these are serious things, people. I don't have words. I'm asking that this house be brought in, now let's make it clear that if we need a press conference and we need to empower you, Mr. President, this can't go through like this. So where did we come from? So why this parliament, anyway? So why this country. Well, this is for studying in all the cathedrals of the world. I don't have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7239	Thank you. May I have your attention, please? We're finishing the debate. Mr Bešlagić also asked for a word from Mrs Jelina Đurković. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7240	...is the time that after that series about Kunt Kunt we were writing out our branches. The only thing they were up front didn't have to write a unique home number, which is personal, let's say, property that's a secret. That's the code I'm asking someone to tell me, and I'm turning out I'm not going to fill out my birth number. I'm talking about the home number being very private, and I think that information, I've gotten to the children of my Amridges. I can't put together, and the other thing is going to be my leaf thicker in these elements, and there's nothing there about property records, but it's just a simple alignment of the genealogy you're from, and it's lucky you're not looking for a purse there and a mother, or a woman, etc. It's all over my grandmother's line. Who went abroad, I don't know how we're going to get them, but I think it's ungrably constructed, I'd say a list, in terms of these relationships that are here, believe me. It could have been far more cultural, more elegantly written, where to me it's far more important and more important, I would say property relationship than parent number, which, objectively, is a personal matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7241	Thank you, Bešlagić. Mrs. Jelina Đurković has a word. May I have your attention, please, just to get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7242	Just to remind you that we've already been to that seminar that we had at the beginning, we've already had a little bit of a link between some of the laws and what comes out of that law and this questionnaire is really humiliating. I propose to a commission that does or presents to the Council of Ministers that, in fact, what we are, our families should be interested in the Electoral Commission and whoever checks it out. So, my family, outside my family, I have no right to seek someone to be responsible for what I'm going to do, and I don't want to be responsible for anyone in my extended family, who's going to do something, and God knows what they're going to do. So I just want to be responsible for my family. That's my husband, my two kids and me and the dot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7243	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7244	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I belong to those who, I say, do not say most, but obviously we have a consensus that this questionnaire should be radically changed. Nobody slows it down. I tried to fill it too, so I had a problem finding my grandfather's home number that died a hundred years ago, and that's not a question. He was my grandfather. He just wasn't my mother's number. You also have a mass of people who are alive today who won't give you this information, because maybe you're not with them in the best of relationships, especially when you get to the so-called. The third knee on your side and the other on the other side of your other half. However, Mr. Chairman, since we are on the most legislative body, we have a problem, and this problem cannot be solved on the scale that we are here. zakob conflict of interest has not been passed by Parliament or this Parliament. He was imposed by the High Representative and the law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions has very clearly defined 82 things that we may not like. By the same law, Article 17, I took it as, when I received a questionnaire of the law to see what this is about, and I took it to see how to regulate my working relationship that I don't have any problems because of this law, because university professors, among other things, have a problem under the Law of Conflict of Interest here, so they have to be, among other things, not to talk about other people who are directly conflicted with their own, possible function that they now have with this law. All those who are on boards, public enterprises and companies that are more than 25% held in possession are violating this law of ink, which, eventually, sits in the legislative and executive authority and it is not... etc. I don't want to bother you with that. However, Article 17 of this Law states the implementation of point 1. In accordance with this law, the Electoral Commission shall perform the following functions and shall, inter alia, provide instructions, prescribe forms and organisation of registers for the application of the provisions of this law. In other words, this questionnaire was brought in accordance with their jurisdiction. Because he's like this or something, that I'm not doing the words that were heard here, they've done this in accordance with this law. They brought the form, they brought the instructions that we have to fill it out, and now they're making it on the basis of this register. The moment that we as a legislative authority and this will come to you, as they say, you will be immediately awaited by these people who are now appointed to the Council of Ministers by these same forms and they should fill this out. Eh, now, I think we can come to a conclusion that we don't do this. It also states here that the Election Commission in its implementation shall adopt a rule on the management of registers, forms and implementation of rules on the conduct of proceedings and delivery of decisions, as well as the drawing up of reports. So it's in this law. Among other things, in that law is in the next Article 18 of the Electoral Commission procedure, I have tried to see how we can in front of the Electoral Commission to instruct them not to do so. However, I did not find a foothold, as the Election Commission is completely independent of the legislative and especially of the executive authorities. A procedure before the Election Commission can be initiated, I'm just saying what it is. We must adopt this at the next session of Parliament and change it immediately, there is no problem and then we can do whatever we want. The procedure before the Election Commission is being launched at the request of the Election Commission. Watch out. So, they can bring themselves to run, so we're not, or at the request of the person in question. In other words, we can now say that we are the people that are concerned, so that's why we're going before the Election Commission to do this. The Council of Ministers can do the same. I don't want to bother you with other members of the law, because when I suggest to you all my esteemed colleagues, especially you who are now elected, read this law. It's his intensities, so then I'm surprised, you weren't surprised when you heard about the questionnaire what was said. So, Mrs. Fatima, let me finish. I think it's only normal for this legislature to be in charge of the Council of Ministers and not for us to do it for ourselves, because this concerns everyone in BiH. He can do anything. Okay, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7245	Fatima, come on, Fatima, it's that you're a lady and you're from Mostar, but I'm asking you anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7246	Mr. Chairman, my proposal is to refer it to the Council of Ministers and to establish a good order immediately in the beginning to refer these and similar things to the Council of Ministers, to the Council of Ministers on this matter, because this is not just about changing the pattern. Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-13-0.u7247	Okay. Does anyone else want to talk? Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and given everything that's been said, I think we can do, adopt one conclusion, which would have the following elements. I repeat again what I was talking about, because I practically dictated that conclusion. So, we as MPs, representatives of the legislative authority, like all citizens of this country, and we must especially respect the laws that are in force, until these laws are applied, and it is up to us to amend these laws and to amend them. As long as they are as they are, they must be respected, and we need to express our commitment to respecting this law of conflict of interest until we change it. Secondly, we should express, on the basis of what Mr. Duraković was talking about, condemnation and serious concern about the way this law is implemented, and about this form, that is, the content of the form itself, because that is, let me put it mildly, in certain elements and a harassing character. And, thirdly, here I think that, perhaps, this better proposal is not that our commission is doing it, but that it works for all the authorities and for all the institutions of the executive authority of this country, to assign the Council of Ministers to make contact with the Election Commission, to transfer the contents of this conclusion to the Election Commission, and to ensure that the Council of Ministers makes such a form, which will include what is necessary, therefore, what is necessary to implement the Law on conflict of interest. That would be my suggestion and I think he's covering everything and I'm putting him to the vote. Who's up for this proposal? Do you mind? Are there any others who can handle it? Just wait, please. We haven't finished yet, a second yet, to learn order. I'm sorry you got up earlier. This way, before I announce that we have exhausted the agenda of the session and before I conclude the session, I want to refer to all the citizens of this country who visit New Year's Eve on July's calendar on behalf of Dim and on their personal behalf congratulations. This way I conclude the work of the 7th session of the House of Representatives in 18 and 20 minutes. Thank you.
