ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u698	Dear envoys, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of the public information funds, all present welcome. I am opening the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All 15 envoys are present at the session. For the 8th session, I suggest the next updated agenda. The new points are under regular number 4 and 5. I'll read the agenda. 1. Envoying Answers and Envoying Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Declaration by the House on the Joint Commission report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH, 4. Declaration by the People's House on the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, 5. A request to consider the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, is proposed a speedy procedure, 6. Application to consider the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial police pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 7. Request to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of witnesses under threat and at risk of witnesses under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 8 / 8 Request to consider the proposal for a law on the criminal procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 9. Request for consideration of the BiH Criminal Law Proposal under Article 100 Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 10. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 2 11. Proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, – and reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Proposal for a Decision on the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Strazbur 27th January 1997, Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 13. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision to amend and re-establish a development loan agreement between BiH and the International Development Association (Credit Number 3257 BOS), proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 14. The proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 15. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement between the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the surrender of persons to the International Criminal Court, Proposer of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina This is the proposed agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Is anyone answering for a debate on the agenda? Mr. Vinko Radovanović. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovuć.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u699	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, I would have one objection. The reference applies to Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9. Namely, the House of Representatives did not consider or adopt these laws. We believe that, as a rule, the House of Representatives should first consider and adopt laws, and then the House of Peoples. We can accept this as an exception, but we ask the College of the House to have this in mind when determining the agenda for the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u700	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. Anyone else want to talk about the agenda? I'll just have one brief comment. In fact, Mr. Radovanović is right. At the beginning of our work, we took a general position in principle to consider legislative proposals after the debates at the House of Representatives were completed. This time, however, it is the laws that the High Representative has imposed on a temporary basis, and as you know to us that we could change these laws, we must first adopt them, adopt them as they were adopted in order to consider them. Also at one of our meetings of our colleges, we decided to go adopt the unadopted laws that the High Representative imposed on a temporary basis and in accordance with our definition, and by respecting this by Mr. Vink, I think we can still go with this agenda today. Of course, we expect the House of Representatives to do the same to bring us into line and to have these laws adopted as their own as soon as possible, because there is an obvious need to make certain amendments and complements to these laws that the High Representative has brought down on a temporary basis. Here, with this explanation, I think we can and if there are no more interested in the debate that we can plead and accept this agenda. If there are no more reports, I find that such a agenda has been adopted and we can proceed with the implementation on the agenda points. In accordance with Article 46 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the People's House should not be declared because there were no proposals for amendments and additions to the agenda. The agenda is therefore adopted and we are going to be realized. We're going to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. The answer to the envoy's questions and the envoy's questions The answer to his question was received by the envoy, Mr Branko Zrno. Is Mr. Zno satisfied with the answer given? Yes, it is. Thank you. There were no other answers. According to my records, the deadlines are in line with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure expired on six questions from our envoys. I propose that we once again warn all those who did not comply with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Article 122, that within the deadline of delivery, they should do so as soon as possible, because Article 112(5) gives us the possibility that, if the answers are not delivered within the time limit, the applicant may ask the College to include the question required by the answer in the agenda of the next House sessions. We today, bearing in mind the fact that there have been no answers to the 6 questions raised within the time limit and until the beginning of today's session, have discussed at our college which was just before this session, and we will stick to these provisions of Article 121(5) and to one of the next sessions, as those who, the envoy who asked for an answer to its insistence and demand, will include the question that has been asked, and there has not been an answer to the question to enter the question, that is, the point of the agenda at our next session. Here, this is my thinking, or some information. Are there any envoys today in the mood to ask questions? Mr Tomislav Limov. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u701	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Presidents, fellow envoys, representatives of professional services and public information funds, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers, respecting what the President has just said as the position of the College, I will nevertheless use my right to remind myself of one of the questions I asked at our second session held on 13 February 2003 when I asked the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr. Mirsad Keba, an emissary question concerning data on the employment of returnees in public enterprises and institutions. On March 27th of the current year, the Council of Ministers identified an answer to my envoy's question. At the 4th session of the House of People held on 1st April of this year, I expressed my dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers' said response, because it was not really an answer to my precise question in which I sought information as an illustration for 10 municipalities from various parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the expression of dissatisfaction, I have pointed out the expectations that the data will be delivered to me urgently. Just the word urgently used by the Council of Ministers in its final statement of response to my envoy's question. What is the urgency of the fact that by today 127 days after the question asked, I did not get an answer stating the particulars requested. On the basis of the above, Article 121(5) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask the College to place a point on the agenda of the next session of the House of Nations - Employment of returnees with special emphasis on their employment in public and state-owned enterprises, institutions and bodies of administration at all levels. I remain with this proposal from the request, in fact, and whether or not I will receive a reply from the Council of Ministers in the meantime and deliver this request in writing to the chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u702	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Is there? Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u703	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I have two questions I would like to ask. First question, I got from the Regional Association of Refugees and Displaced Persons of Lopara, Ugljevik, Bijeljina and Janja one request I want to put before this house, and 5 they sent it to the House of Peoples. I believe the chairman, Mr. Jukić, has this, but, well, I've been tasked with setting this up. Namely, it is that they are looking for a request, meaning compensation for all destroyed houses and other Serb facilities in the Federation and during the war, and especially for those destroyed after the Dayton Agreement. There are about 772 of them, and I'm going to take this letter that they sent me to leave here with the chairman, and I think he's got this letter and he's going to take it into consideration and give it to the relevant services to answer that question. And the second question is specific. It's about a man who's born from Cmiljevina, Tuzla municipality, and it's about a man who wants to return to his hearth. However, there are some 500 squares that have been mined for his entire estate and he cannot return. I now ask the question is it possible to demine those 500 squares in the village of Cililjani, the municipality of Tuzla so that man can return normally to his property and live on his hearth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u704	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u705	I thank the Mr. Chairman who, in his comment at the beginning of this agenda, said he would respect parliamentary questions and that he would put them on the agenda for the next session on the issues that did not receive answers to the Rules of Procedure. I can only say here that I'm really surprised by the very negatively surprised by the attitude of certain people who and certain institutions who in time don't send answers to the questions asked, and I don't wish that in the House of Peoples who work very constructively, since we've been elected here, there are any unwanted situations, but I'm also so demanding, principled that all those who are obliged to send us answers have to do so. If they don't, it's known they need to go to the next session for the agenda. I thank the College for accepting this proposal and if it does not come to the next session I will insist that it be put on the agenda for the next session. You all know what it's all about not repeating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u706	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Spasojević wants to go again. Here you go, Mr. Savior. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u707	As for this draft agenda, I've forgotten, but right now, maybe it's a technical mistake, but I don't think so. In point 5, it writes – Request to consider the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration, and the proposal for a Council of Ministers to draw an emergency procedure. Is this really an emergency procedure, article 99, or is it a member of the 100th particularly urgent procedure? That's what I want to be explained before we move on to the agenda. Yeah, I know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u708	We'll make that clear when we're at the point, and that doesn't mean either one of us is excluded. So he can do both as we say. I don't think there's gonna be a problem, Mr. Spasojević. Because of the Council of Ministers' proposals, we went to the text, that is, on the agenda, as it was written in a memo from the Council of Ministers. Therefore, neither Article 99 nor Article 100 insisted. That's what we'll figure out here. Is this it? Is there any other need to ask a question? There isn't. I thank everyone. And this would end with the first item of the agenda. We're going to the second item of the agenda that reads "Ad." 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Peoples You have received all in the materials of this minutes. Is anyone answering for a word? Is there any need to supplement, correct? Niko one's answering. I call upon you to plead. Who's for the adoption of the 7th session minutes? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I find that with 14 votes in favour, with one vote, the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Peoples have been abstentioned. We're done with the second point, we're going to the third item of the agenda, 7 Ad. 3. A statement by the House on the Joint Commission's report on the agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH You have received a report from the Joint Commission. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. We don't have a chance here. Here's a warning that there's one technical error. So in Amendment number III in the second row where it says – Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communication. So no communication, because it was an earlier name of this ministry. So a technical error on behalf of the ministry. In addition to this remark, i.e. the correction, i am giving the Joint Commission's report, as referred to in Article 95. Rules of Procedure. I suggest we adopt this report from the Commission. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission's report under Article 95. Rules of Procedure. The next item of the agenda is number 4. Ad. 4. A statement by the People's House on a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health You have received a report from the Joint Commission. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. Is there any need for clarification? I don't think so. I'm calling for a statement on this report. I suggest we adopt the report. Who's in? I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission report. We're done with the fourth agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the Ad agenda. 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Transitional Law on the Mergering of Customs Administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, the speedy procedure I will only take a few preliminary clarifications. We had just after the end of our college a call that called, or one meeting that Mr. Hejs called. At this meeting, Mr Hejs and the president of the Council of Ministers and several of our ministers, Finance Ministers and several other 8 ministers from the Council of Ministers were represented by this proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. You all got this bill. We, keeping in mind all that was said and the reasons that were then told to us, felt that we should put our sittings on the agenda today. This law, the bill passed by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, received a letter requesting that the proposal be put in a hurry. It did not specify whether Article 99 or Article 100. And here I am now calling on behalf of the motionary of the Treasury Minister to give us an introductory explanation of this proposal. Also on the need for a hasty examination of the urgency of the procedure. Mrs. Marić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u709	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here we are going to do this opening part in a way that means the Council of Ministers proposes this esteemed home to adopt this law in its form as it is proposed here. It begins with the name of the Law which means – Transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of a administration for indirect taxation. So we can immediately say that it's an unusual name of the law. However, it is linked to Article 2 of this Act, which states that the existing situation relating to the customs administration, offices and organisation of the foreign customs service remains for up to 3 months, so that the title of the Law gives it this temperate and temporary character and means that it would expect it to be and should be very soon passed a law that will elaborate more in detail on everything that is set out in this law of 13 articles. And until then, this law should be passed so that we begin activities that will lead to the establishment of an indirect tax administration. They should also appoint the Director-General of this administration, which means he should immediately work on the merger, i.e. the merger of customs administrations. The constitutional basis for the law means there is, it is stated in the reasoning by procedure. The reason for the adoption of the Law means in these reasons that the decision of the High Representative established one Commission for indirect taxation and that it started with the work of 1.3 this year. So this commission consists of three finance ministers, three experts and observers from Brcko District and the head of the commission is Mr. Đoli who is a Belgian from Brussels. So it's been working hard and this is the first law proposed for adoption today, and behind this means following the whole customs-related legal procedure, and then up to 1. In 2005, the VAT procedure must be completed, and ultimately it means uniting everything together in a way that we have a single economic space that has one service that covers means collecting incomes that are transparently paid into an account that is shared transparently 9 of these revenues to reduce the meaning of corruption, crime, to allow for greater collection of public revenues, i.e. to meet public needs. Today, I do not know the item on the agenda, say the 14th and Memorandum signed between the Council of Ministers and the European Commission, the European Community. The memorandum has not yet been ratified, as part of the EUR 60 million grant was not conditioned to be released, to be an obstacle to ratification means. Today, however, this ratification comes in turn, and in this memorandum one of the conditions for us to withdraw the first tranche of credit, or the second tranche of the European Commission's assistance, is written in three terms, means public administration reform and work on these issues. And this is really considered the beginning of work. So we're telling this law that we want to establish a tax administration, that we're aware that it can't quickly remain the state it is in customs administrations in three months. That, in the meantime, we should choose the Director-General who will make these things known in a way that is normally managed by one administration and that in that time we will pass a permanent law, a law that will definitely and decadently explain all these things. There were objections to this meaning that the Law did not provide sufficient, sufficient contact between this administration, which is one special administrative organisation that is special to itself and between the Council of Ministers of Entity Levels, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and thus two articles are dedicated to this case and to this transitional law and so on. We think that the law has all the necessary preconditions here which, all the necessary preconditions to adopt today, means in a way that it understands all of this and that it is a transitional and that it is a start and that it means there will be other laws that will need to be adopted as soon as possible so that you will finally go here in the way that we have promised you and yourself to collect these public revenues, wishing that we can meet all the public needs that arise from the collection of public incomes, and ultimately wanting to become one country that will be ready to join the EU tomorrow and for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u710	I thank Mrs. Marić. We heard the reasoning of the Proposer of the Law. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to take part in the debate? So I'm gonna do it again and again and we're discussing the procedure. So, sir, who answered? Mr. Genjac. Halid, did you answer the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u711	Dear colleagues, honored guests, I feel the need to speak about the procedure for the adoption of this law needs things to be more precise to some extent. It is the information that I have and with which the delegates at my disposal are telling me about that a large process of significant reforms in the tax policy plan and VAT is a job that is a defacto imperative for a process that implies a feasibility study for the EU's 10 accession process and that we are on that path defacto we are now able to take this first step with a certain measure of delay. Since this is one of the most important areas that is subject to reforms and since it is one of the areas for which we have naturally chosen to implement reforms, I think that in order to be able to prepare timely for this job to be done in quality, I think that it is really necessary for us to consider this law in accordance with Article 100, which means what can be understood and what can be treated by the Rules of Procedure as an emergency procedure. Because there is an emergency procedure in the Rules of Procedure and there is a shortened procedure and regular procedure. So, I think if we express our intention and if we express commitment and willingness to do this job in a timely manner, I think it's necessary to consider this by article 100 or by emergency procedure. Of course, when I say this, I have in mind that certain visions are precedentd in matters, that it is the law which is the transitional law that first appears such a form, possible legally, but for the first time therefore a transitional law that would be in force for three months and that it is actually a law that makes assumptions that access to a quality-making law. With all this in mind, I call on the MPs to make a contribution in this important area in a way that we accept that this law is being considered by an urgent procedure. Of course, to certain shortcomings in the law and certain precision in the sentence formulation, I think you need to explain yourself. Of course, we have in mind that the draft law was also attended by a group appointed by the High Representative, that entity finance ministers and the competent ministers played a significant role in this, and of course I think it is necessary that coordination with ministers who participated in the drafting of this law in order to remove possible ambiguities is needed during today's session. I think that certain ambiguities in terms of insufficiently precise formulations that have one or two in the law can be removed in a way that further interpretations as the official position of this home are an integral part of the adopted Law, or at the end of the passed Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u712	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Boško Šiljegović, president of the Serbian People's Envoy Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u713	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the Club of Serbian Delegates. I fully agree with my colleague, Halid Genjac, that this law is required, that it is necessary, no matter what the transitional law is, that we get to the best possible quality of this transitional law. We hope that we will have an even better quality law indicative when it will go into regular procedure and when it will have the opportunity to repair it, upgrade it, modernise it. 11 Where I disagree with my colleague Halid, we believe that this law should go according to an emergency procedure, but according to Article 99. The reason for this is that this transitional law has not been considered either by the House of Representatives and the next, both colleagues and fellow Bosniaks have accepted that there are a few inaccuracies that should be removed and corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u714	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Genjac, he wants it again. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u715	I apologize for calling again. It's a pretty important project and a pretty specific time. The shortened procedure means that we could have this law at best for a month and a half. That's good for existing opportunities. However, the dynamics that have been established and which I believe should be supported in order to meet in good time what our obligation is on all these processes that are under way, I think that this dynamic implies the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. And that's why I once again appeal to my colleagues to keep this in mind. It's another thing. A few irregularities which, a couple of inaccuracies that appear in the Law, I think that this problem can be eliminated in a way that I am unclearly formulating today to explain clearly enough by the legislators and by those who have worked on making the Law and that these clear and precise interpretations enter into the record of and for this point, for the adoption of this law and that it is later used during this short period of application of this law. So I don't think these are essential questions, and I don't think they're so important to prevent us from doing this job in time. At the same time, I think that the interpretations of the groups working on the draft of this law can either be acceptable to me and to MPs who express some caution or a reserve because of these inaccuracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u716	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Čengić reporting. Mr. Hasan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u717	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, others present, media representatives, I will take the opportunity to conclude the following. Since we have obviously discussed this agenda point in so far, we have agreed that this is an important issue and that it needs to be resolved and since there is clearly some understanding that perhaps some solutions offered in this text are not the best and as far as I know there is one target term, so a time limit until this law should be in force and in that sense probably the reason why 12 of the College of our House decided to go with this law today. So, with the fact that we no longer have a scheduled session during this month, and the deadline for this law to become effective is by the end of this month, better said the 1st of next month, I suggest that we maybe take a very short break and try additional consultations before deciding which member, so by Article 100 or 99, we discuss and decide on this law. I believe the mood is to find a solution here, so maybe we should take a short break and try to agree on which of these two members we'll be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u718	I thank Mr. Čengić Mr. Ante Spajić, president of the Croatian People's Envoy Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u719	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here's what you've brought to the debate by the Croatian Club of Representatives. For the first time I've heard that there are objections to this meaning of the transitional law and I propose a break and that the presidents of the clubs together will try to agree with the president and find the most optimal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u720	I thank Mr. Spajić. We understand. I think there's a need to take a break. Is 20 minutes enough for us? So a sequel to 12 and 15. And this is Mr. Spajić's proposal, I think it's correct. So college and club presidents, and then, of course, clubs will have their own meetings. /PAUZA/ I invite you to resume. This break took a little longer. However, it took as long as it took to try to make a deal and get out of this situation and I will inform you that the next solution has been proposed. In view of the imprecise position of the Council of Ministers on the procedure for considering this bill, where a hasty procedure has been sought, without detailing what the article is, and because of the fact that we have taken one position at the beginning of our work, at the first session, that we are in principle considering the legislative proposal after the House of Representatives passed, and because of the need to carry out further consultations and collect additional information, I propose and this is the conclusion of this body that has met, therefore the College, the President of the Clubs of the Peoples, to suspend the debate and to leave this point at the last point of our established agenda. 13 And to continue to work on this agenda after the rest of the points are finished. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 14 votes, we have adopted this conclusion on this item of the agenda and I am notifying that Mr Vinko Radovanović, in the follow-up to the session, has justified his absence because he went on the official trip. We're moving to agenda six. It's Ad. Six. Application to consider the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial police pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers This law has been imposed by the High Representative on a provisional basis and published in Official Journal of BiH 3 of this year. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. As you know, amendments are not tolerated. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Who wants to talk? There's no record of a hearing. I'm the one who closes the debate and gives the plea. Who's to pass a law like this? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I agree that with 13 votes, the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial police has been adopted. Point 7. Excuse me, we made one procedural mistake. So this was a statement about the procedure. Now we're voting on the law. Excuse me. We'll do it again. So we'll plead to the procedure. The proposal is for the Law to be considered under Article 100(3). Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - One thanks. 14 I conclude that with 13 votes for one vote, it is decided that the law is being considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the text of the law. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm giving a statement to the law. We're voting on the bill. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously with 14 votes to adopt the proposed text of the law. We're going to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad. Seven. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on protection under threat and at risk of witnesses under Article 100 The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, have been imposed by the High Representative and published in Official Messenger No. 3 of this year. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the procedure for the Law to be considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that, with 13 votes for one vote, we abstained from adopting the procedure for the law to be considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the text of the law. Who's answering for a word? No one. I'm closing the debate. I give a statement to the text of the law. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously with 14 votes to adopt the proposed text of the law. 15 Point 8. Ad. 8. Request to consider the proposal for a law on the criminal procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, is also a dedicated High Representative and has been published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's "Official Messenger" No. 3 of this year. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We declare the procedure for this law to be considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - One. Thank you. I find that with 13 votes and 1 vote abstention we have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the text of the law. Who wants to take part in the debate? Niko one's answering for a hearing. I conclude the debate and give the statement of the proposed text of the law. Who's for the proposed text of the law? Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously with 14 votes to pass the proposed law. Point 9. Ad. Nine. Request for consideration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for criminal law pursuant to Article 100 The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, was also imposed by the High Representative and published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's "Official Messenger" No. 3 of this year. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted, pursuant to Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate on the procedure of this law. There's no record of a hearing. 16 I give a statement to the procedure that the law is under consideration under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that, with 13 votes for one vote, we have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I am opening a debate on the text of the law, the proposal for a criminal law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I conclude the debate and call for a statement on the proposed text of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 14 votes, we adopted the proposed text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's law. We've reached point 10. It's Ad.10. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the House of Representatives pursuant to Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ante Spajić. Sir, ISpajić join you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u721	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Club of Representatives, with respect to the meaning of these amendments and additions, suggests that this request go to regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u722	Thank you, Mr. Spajić. I will just remind myself that the Law on Citizenship has been adopted, published and it is in force and this is about amendments and additions and here is Mr Spajić, on behalf of the Club, who considers that there is no need for emergency procedures or procedures under Article 100(2). Here. Is there anyone else who wants to come forward on this? 17 we have two suggestions. We have a proposal from the House of Representatives to declare ourselves pursuant to Article 100(2) and we have a proposal from Mr Spajić to consider this proposal in a regular procedure. In the order of the application, I will make these two proposals for a plea. Who is to consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Let's just figure it out. So for it was five, they were three, and they were abstentions, four against, I was abstention, and four abstentions. In five, four against four abstentions. Yes, it is. This Regulation shall enter Excuse me, excuse me. We're not okay after all. I suggest we re-vote. I'm really sorry to all of you, this isn't a big deal, but we're still going to be completely accurate, without any idea of me, is it as much as it was for, against. I suggest, I apologize to everyone. I suggest we re-vote the vote. I'll do it now, please follow me to count to be precise. So we have two proposals, a proposal from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship under Article 100. This is a proposal from the House of Representatives, and the second proposal by Mr Ante Spajić is on behalf of the Croatian Envoys' Club to consider this law, amendments and additions to the Law in a regular procedure. In accordance with the order of the application, the statement goes, firstly we declare the proposal of the House of Representatives that the Law of Amendments and Supplements of the Law be considered in the summary, i.e. in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? - Five for it. Thank you. Who's against it? - Six against. Who's being held back? - 3. Thank you. I find that this proposal has not passed. Shall we vote for another? There's no need. Okay. Then I find that the requirement to request means that the examination referred to in Article 100(2) has not passed and the law is considered in regular procedure. We're going to point 11. 18 Ad. 11. Proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives, passed this law. You've received the text of the law as well as the report of the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the Law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is founded. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations were submitted by envoy Halid Genjac. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Genjac. Before the working bodies, a Mr. Genjac
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u723	Dear colleagues, I feel the need to explain to some extent the amendment I have submitted. First of all, I want to say that I am expressing myself, of course, giving pleasure to other colleagues from this home which we have come to this moment to bring this important legal project to its conclusion. I am indeed repeating my personal assessment that this is a project that may be the most significant on the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina after Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission to the Council of Europe. And on this occasion, I would like to thank and congratulate all those who participated in the drafting of this law and, in my court, achieved European standards mainly in the proposed legislative solution. I, of course, have submitted a number of amendments as well as one and a number of delegates a significant number of amendments. All amendments accepted at the House of Representatives were also accepted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which you received a report on. A number of significant amendments have been adopted to improve the content of the Law to a quality extent and certain solutions are precise and I have submitted one amendment which is not accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I have decided to repeat this amendment. It is an amendment that reads and refers to Article 17 and the amendment reads that secondary education in public institutions is free of charge. In the proposed text of the Law, in that same Article 17, in the second position, the intention was, therefore, the Law had a tendency expressed in paragraph 2 of that article – that the competent educational authorities would commit themselves to implementing the necessary measures to ensure conditions for the extension of compulsory education periods to the level of secondary education. An amendment has been adopted at the House of Representatives, which has completely deleted this attitude I have just read. And I think for various reasons that I wouldn't explain right now, there's no need to establish compulsory high school education. However, I think there is reason to talk about high school education in public institutions being free of charge. Why? We defacto in the Bosnian Herzegovina society have free high school education. So that's the standard that's been achieved. And I think it should be pointed out in the law relating to the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think we should take a step backwards from existing solutions. That's one reason. Another reason is that in the modern world in existing trends of technology, in the existing scope of technology in everyday life, work creation. I think high school education has become almost imperative for those who intend to do the quality of our jobs. For these reasons, I believe that everyone who wants to, has an intention, has the ability to school, and does not want to go to private schools, I think there is reason for society to exert itself further and to clearly say that secondary education in public institutions is free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u724	I thank Mr. Genjac. I call on Mr Filipović, president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u725	Dear Mr. President, Vice-Presidents and fellow MPs, Mr. Ministers, distinguished representatives of the international community and others present. At its two sessions, the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and concluded the draft law at its 7th session in accordance with the Constitution. The 8th session of the 12th session discussed the principles of the proposed Law and the amendments tabled by Mr. Halid Genjac, delegates, MPs Zoran Spasojević, Mr. Goran Milojević, the Club of Croatian Envoys, and there was also an accepted amendment, the last amendment in the proposal in the report received by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, concerns the entry into force of this law. What does not say in the report is important to tell you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has received 66 amendments, that after an exhaustive debate 39 in the report is 38, 39, one small slip has technically been left out of one amendment. 39 became an integral part of the text of the bill. Among them, what the esteemed colleague, Genjac, has already said is the 27 amendments of Mr Genjac, who were equally accepted at a session of the House of Representatives and practically 11 amendments that we received from the representatives of this House. 20 All the amendments set out on the Constitutional and Legal Commission have been supported by the legislator of this Framework Law. The Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously supported the principles of the proposed law. She has accepted these 39 amendments that you have in your report, and I must point out here a really serious approach in the debate over such a significant legal project. Then we also had very important assistance and close cooperation from OSCE experts, the Council of Europe and the OHR, which is why we recommend that the House accept this text of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u726	I thank Mr Filipović, President of the Commission. Mr. Spasojević wants to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u727	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I have one remark and a big remark, and that is that we, at least as an MP, have not received a consolidated text. So after the meeting of the Commission that was supposed to deliver us a consolidated text that we now know normally as regards the Law of the Framework on Middle and Basic Education, so I don't know now, actually, because I didn't get the material, do I accidentally, do I deliberately invite myself out of Assembly 16, I think, they asked me, whether it was 13, 12, 14, I don't know exactly, and they asked me to, and it was mostly Friday, whether I wanted to come and take over the material or send it to me in the mail. I told them to mail me normally and since it was Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday in Republika Srpska was a day off, whether it was on purpose or by accident, but I didn't get it. And I've invested these four amendments and they're as I saw yesterday when we had a club of MPs, they were rejected. However, I had a desire to defend these amendments in front of this house, so perhaps someone would commit at least one amendment, and I think my amendments are good and that at least one of these four should be adopted. So as far as this is concerned, I've come into some state where I can't defend my amendments under the law, because it's been said that 48 hours should, and I haven't won, means whether they're rejected or not. I didn't know at all, since I wasn't informed, I thought my amendments had passed, and now I don't know, here's what I'm asking the chairman how I'm supposed to act right now, because I have four amendments that I want to defend, and I didn't get it in time to react. I can understand that I can be a failure, but I can't figure out such a thing, because I've been trying. I will not vote in principle for the laws passed under article 100 by emergency procedure. I ask that I act as an MP in this House. Here's the first time I've had the chance to act, and now I'm back in a situation where I can't defend my amendments. Now I'm asking you to explain whether it's the professional service's fault, you as a College should make sure that in time we have materials and that what follows us by law means 8 days before the 21st session, that we have materials that we can study, that we can change the effect on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u728	I thank the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u729	IJavić call back later until I see
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u730	I thank Mr. Spasojević. As we check that everything said here has been respected in terms of the right of the envoys to be informed of the fate of their amendments after the Commission has done its job. Until then, I call on the representative of this bill, Mr. Halilović, to give us the necessary clarifications if he considers it necessary to give them. And I think this topic is extremely interesting and that here we will continue to have a chance to talk more. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u731	I don't know whether it's about the law in general or just these few of these, about the Law in general or just these two amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u732	I think it'd be good about the law, according to what the law is with the amendments, because, here's 39 of them here, plus at the Representative's office, I thought it was 30-ac, so that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u733	All right. Thank you. The Honorable Presidency of the Assembly, honourable MPs. The reform of education was initiated and discussed at a meeting of the Peace Implementation Council held in Brussels last year in the presence of top representatives of BiH and political directors of all member states of the Peace Implementation Council. The need for reform on education in BiH came not only from the need for reform and an inherited education system, but from the essence of the need to bring together the basics and conditions of education in a system designed during the war and after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have therefore committed ourselves in Brussels to work to ensure that all children have the possibility of quality education in integrated multicultural schools at all degrees, freed from political, religious and cultural and other prejudices and discrimination, where the rights of all children are respected. We promised to ensure that all children members of national minorities are properly involved in the educational 22 systems across the country. To ensure that our children are allowed to complete primary education. We have also committed ourselves to enable the inclusion of children with special needs for all levels of the education system. The law on which we are discussing today, therefore, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education and, in a formal and substantive sense, represents the fulfillment of one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-prepared commitments following its entry into the Council of Europe, which I am convinced is also deeply aware of in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is necessary to indicate that the name of the Law itself, the Framework Law gives a clear signal that this law does not take over the competences and competences of entities and cantons which are still responsible authorities in the field of both pre-school and primary and secondary education. On the other hand, regardless of any compromise solutions, the Law is a basis that guarantees the introduction of reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a basis which guarantees the exercise of the rights set out in the conventions that form part of our legal system. I once spoke here about what conventions are and there is no need to repeat it again and they are therefore incorporated into the relevant chapters of the Law. Let me just say that, then, after being sent to the parliamentary procedure at the Council of Ministers' meeting in April 2003 at the meeting of the Council of Ministers. It is important to point out that the bill was adopted unanimously at the Council of Ministers' session. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly actually accepted the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's request from the BiH Council of Ministers that the law be considered as a matter of urgency. So with the possibility of intervention that the Law could be applicable in some parts since the beginning of the next school year. More significant amendments to this procedure may need to be indicated here. Namely, 8 MPs of the House of Representatives, one club of MPs submitted a total of 85 amendments to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. As you know at the House of Representatives, the Law was unanimously adopted with 27 amendments. 67 amendments were submitted at the committee stage in the House of Peoples. The amendments were submitted by the Croatian Envoys Club, and by three envoys individually. As the committee responsible for the House of Nations, the Constitutional Commission adopted 38 amendments to the Law in which 27 amendments and 27 amendments adopted at the House of Representatives were incorporated. The amendments of MPs that were presented in the committee phases in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the one hand tend to pass on more powers to the state level, while the other amendments then go to the state level to maintain a co-ordinated role, while educational authorities at the level of entities and canton have powers in line with their established solutions. However, it can be noted that the most attention is given to Article 7 which speaks about the use of language, Article 9 which regulates the issue of religious science, Article 42, 45, which regulates issues relating to education bodies, and Article 59 which determines the obligations of the BiH Council of Ministers, in so far as they do not comply with established obligations within the given deadlines. 23 It is also significant that an amendment has been adopted setting out the obligation to conclude bilateral agreements with other countries in order to organise a supplementary teaching for children and BiH citizens living abroad. I think it is a very important amendment, because the possibility of additional teaching for children and BiH citizens abroad is not considered an option when making the law. As the diaspora is clearly required, this is one way to show concern for needs and children who no longer live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The framework law on basic and secondary education has emerged, of course, has brought great attention to not only parliamentary parties and MPs individually, but also the attention of employees, educational institutions. Regardless of the dilemmas and demands arising from individual amendments, it is very clear that the Law, in our opinion, is done in quality and that it is a very good basis for regulation in the field of pre-school primary and secondary education. The framework law on primary and secondary education was adopted at a session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. It is also significant that it was adopted unanimously after a really big and heated debate in the commission's phase of consideration. A high-quality debate has also been held on the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, and we hope that you will be adopted today by the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. As for these dilemmas stemming from these two discussions concerning Mr Genjac's amendments and this final debate, yes, yes, Spasojević, I can say that in the original version of the Law, there was a provision in Article 7(2) that Dr. The Genjac also said that it is said there that competent educational authorities commit themselves to implementing the necessary measures to ensure conditions for the extension of compulsory education periods and to the level of secondary education. However, through a kmsy debate, and at the House of Representatives, it came out with the view that, particularly, on the Constitutional Commission of this House, the State, or whoever adopts this law, the Framework Law, given that cantons and entities are those who finance education, that they should not produce financial obligations, but rather, they themselves regulate it by their own laws which will be obliged to comply with this law in all the details, thus and in this part. As far as Mr. Spasojević's amendments are concerned, as I recall on the Constitutional Commission, there were discussions on these amendments, however, these three amendments, in my memory, have not been adopted. There is also the President of the Constitutional Commission who can do this, so these amendments have been in the process, discussed them, but therefore have not passed this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u734	I thank Mr. Halilović. The debate is under way. Mr. Zno wants to talk. Here you go, Mr. Bean. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u735	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I've come out in connection with the amendment submitted by Mr. Genjac. It is an amendment on secondary education and public institutions that should be regulated legally so that it is free of charge. I'd like to say, as a man and as an educator, that I absolutely accept. I accept this amendment intimately and absolutely agree with it, but the first amendment is absolute or defined or undefined, i.e. the amendment itself or until the end defines or defines nothing. It's so wide that everything said is essentially not said. Here's an explanation. If I literally accept the truth that high school education is really free, then we mean it's important and mandatory for a student to come to school alone. And I ask the question – who will bear all the costs of such education? What is this level that is binding, what is the level that is obliged to assume the obligation of financial commitment over secondary education? Is this the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are those entities? Are these county units, or are they local self-government units? Are those the municipalities? That's the indetermination of this amendment. Secondly, it is clear that we need education and that we need a high school as an upgrade absolutely as well as a primary school, although with a focus on the years and years they attend, we cannot define it that way. According to his definition, high school is not a mandatory school. Thirdly, I'm afraid this amendment would cause financial chaos in this form. Because believe that all levels of government would try or try to wash their hands of obligation. I deeply believe that this is because I witnessed the strike that caused it caused the uncertainty of who in one county should pay for the transportation of teachers, travel costs of transportation. Is it a municipality or is it a county? And that strike lasted three or four days until the county under pressure took that commitment to itself. Secondly, I think the competent educational powers, i.e. the level of government from the municipality, have already defined this problem. And basically, basically in this country, secondary education is free of charge. I wouldn't at this point, at this point I wouldn't really touch what we've accepted and what we inherited and we follow as standard. Let's keep it as standard. And if that standard has not been adopted until the end, it is not ironed out, it is not defined until the end, it will never finally be defined, then let those same levels of school authorities, or the competent ministries, define it to the end and define it in accordance with this framework law. I don't know how argumentated I was, if I was, then I'd ask my colleague Halid to withdraw this amendment from the procedure. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u736	I thank Mr. Zrna. The debate is under way. In order to know exactly whether Mr. Spasojević was informed in time, I call on Secretary Tomić to inform us all together, because it is the right of the envoy to be informed about how his amendments ended and therefore I believe this is very important. Mr. Spasojević has not professionalized his amendment to us for information, so he is not a professional who has an obligation to come here, etc. And that way to be informed, but there was one way to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u737	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u738	Okay. That's what the Rules of Procedure said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u739	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u740	Thank you. We'll talk about it later. Mr. Secretary, please inform us.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u741	Let me put it this way, the Constitutional and Legal Commission was on Thursday, due to deadline cuts, first of all. Secondly, since there were a large number of amendments that had to be processed technically and to make a report. The report was made on Friday. All envoys were sent by fax on Friday, i.e. some, who were here in Sarajevo's Commission report along with a letter informing them that they could submit amendments to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. re-amendments to deliver by Tuesday. Now it's gone, they went upstairs to check in to the Service to get you some configuration to see that you were delivered in time, or that it was immediately after the commission faxed to you. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u742	I thank Mr. Tomić. I, here we heard the meaning of the information that everyone who had submitted the amendments had sent the information. But really here for the future I would like to do so and call on the responsibility of our Parliament's professional service that indeed none of the rights of the envoys are brought forward, because this is very important and this is one of the most important parts of our work, so that we participate actively in the creation of the law. 26 Behold, I do not know, we are in a dilemma here how to do now. Do you accept the fact, the information that Mr. Spasojević has been informed in a possible way within a reasonable period of time, or
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u743	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u744	Zoran, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u745	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u746	I don't doubt your testimony at all, Mr. Spasojević. I also said
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u747	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u748	Here we are, we can decide otherwise, unless we have material evidence of what we're saying. Look out, now it looks like it's here. Mr. Genjac wanted to come in. And, sir, here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u749	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, in a partial opinion of all those who have so far discussed this law, that this law is extremely important and that I am very glad that we have come to the situation to talk about such an important law that has long been in preparation for a reason, because it is extremely serious, because it treats one substance that, in a direct or indirect way, touches every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I particularly consider it an important fact that this law will require that all of those elements of discrimination be complemented when it comes to education in Bosnia and Herzegovina on any basis. And I think that if there was no other reason that this was more than enough for its most serious realization and acceptance. Secondly, I would like to remind all my colleagues that we have very clear obligations this year in relation to our membership in the Council of Europe and as I recall one of the particularly prominent obligations to this membership is the issue of passing this law. So, the moment we pass this law, we will fulfill an extremely important obligation in the Council of Europe. 27 And thirdly, regarding Mr Genjac's amendment to free education, if I properly paraphrasise it, free high school education or education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to say the following. We live in, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a situation where, as we know, there are extremely big problems with trade imbalances, i.e. large and very big exports. We have serious problems about getting quality funds, so cheap money for funding, for lending production, etc. etc. We're not a country that has very rich and inexhaustible resources. We are not a country that has modern technologies and it is very clear, I think there will be no dilemma about it, that in fact one of the key resources of our country are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily young people. In order to develop our country at all, in order to be able to get into a situation where we have a self-sustainable economy, so that we can be a real and equal member of Europe, a community of European countries, we must take care of our education and therefore of our overall education. In that sense, there is no dilemma. If we were objective to ourselves, and not to look at children, students as our children to whom we tend, we would prescribe high school education, so secondary school education as mandatory. Since we're obviously not still ready, as we're still as a state, and with illiteracy, that we have very different standards in education, that we have very different standards in high school education, not only in two entities, but in the same entity, but in the same canton, from municipality to municipality, from high school to high school, then it's natural that we still have some kind of psychological resistance to compulsory high school education. The question of the freeness of education is, of course, a very serious matter and what it means. It is clear that, at least for me, and it is nothing unknown in the world that free or education that pays means paying the costs of teaching. So it doesn't mean paying the cost of books, paying the cost of accommodation, eating and other expenses, but primarily paying the costs of teaching. In light of the fact that we are not in a situation yet, I would say more psychologically than any other to make a decision on compulsory secondary education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we obviously need to take a previous step to encourage those who need to go to high school to encourage them to do so. So in order not to challenge them reluctantly, especially parents who should possibly pay for schooling, then the least we need to do is to do in this law that we expect it to be adopted today, to define precisely that the cost of teaching is free of charge for all those students who go to high school. I repeat, this is a previous step, so this is something that will encourage parents first to send children to high school, and the second and the students themselves to go to school. Maybe you'll say it looks a little bit unrealistic. You know why it seems unrealistic, or perhaps unnecessary. Because we come from the environment, so from the socialism environment where we've already had education in this part and this sense for free, so we mean 28. But that doesn't mean that tomorrow someone doesn't want some new finance minister, and here we have one say capable, saying it's not the kind of schooling that comes in. You know there's no money for that. And then where are we? Then we're in a situation not to hold this level of population education, but to fall below what would be unacceptable to us, but it would be disastrous. For this reason, I believe that free education in meaning and in terms of free teaching for high school students is indeed a minimum that should be defined, and yet on the other hand, why define it now. Because there's a danger that someone will interpret it differently tomorrow. So he'll say, of course, that means free schooling, and someone else will say he won't. The time when the state law regulates and prescribes as such can no longer be in the position of different interpretations. So, by pleading for the fact that education is the total most important branch of investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that we will give full support to this law and I believe that we will also give support to Mr Genjac's amendment, and if, for formal reasons, we should explain something here, make it more precise, I think it is possible until the end of this work. Of course, considering that free education does not mean that someone now, that the state pays for accommodation to some students, that the state pays for the diet to some students, that the state pays for books to some students, etc. But teaching and listening conditions certainly free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u750	Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to take part in the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u751	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u752	Okay. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? I don't see it. Mr. Genjac wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u753	Therefore, the purpose of the amendment and the intention was precisely to keep standards and make them mandatory, not preventing these standards from being extended, the competent ministries, cantonal, entity, etc. Of course, there is a business possibility that under the new circumstances amendments can be corrected. I really accept these very high-quality suggestions from my colleague, Zrno, who spoke very clearly, because from that branch and that suggestion I therefore accept, and I think that, given all of this in the light of this framework law, we really need to establish this minimum obligation by not preventing those who can anymore and not preventing that standard from spreading in the future. 29 Therefore, I think that the amendment could say that for – in high school education in public institutions students, teaching students is free of charge. So – in high school institutions in high school education in public institutions teaching for students is free of charge. This determines what it is to be free of charge. This does not mean, of course, that where more can be done, where we exist and in the future, which is the urgency that textbooks also provide free, that possibility is not prevented. So I am prepared as an amendment promoter to make this amendment more precise, clearer and appropriate in one of the possible ways. And maybe it would be good, one five-minute break to formulate it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u754	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here's what Mr. Šiljegović wants. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u755	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian delegates' club is considering the materials for today's session, and despite this remarks for colleagues, Spasojević, we didn't even have a definition of how to stand there last night. The materials were sent on Friday. It's Saturday and Sunday weekend. On Monday, there was a holiday in Republika Srpska and it probably all affected that Mr., I trust him without further ado. But generally for the Framework Law, the Club of delegates of the Serbian people says – Framework law does not take over the authority of entities and cantons. Principles and general principles have been established. The law will be passed on an entity and cantonal level based on the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also said that the Law was modernised, improved in accordance with European and world standards. It was adopted at the House of Representatives in the first and second readings of 27 amendments the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House accepted. What I'm saying right now, my personal opinion is that this law has avoided the national education system, and there is an opportunity at the entity and cantonal level of use of language, letters, religious sciences for students and teachers. And for this reason, in addition to this lack of support for counterpart Spasojević, the Serbian delegates' club will support the adoption of this framework law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u756	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. We heard Mr. Šiljegović's statement on behalf of the Serb people's envoy. Okay, this one for Spasojević, I think we've solved it anyway. There have been some small things that seem to me to be technical shortages, or failures, but in the future, we need to take care of them strictly. This refers to professional services that means that 30 make sure that not only has been sent, but is it informed? So did he get that information? Mr. brkati wants to pick up, so Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u757	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow delegates, I feel the need to say only two findings and one opinion. I am truly grateful to all the people who participated in getting to this stage, to get to the framework law at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is one huge step that will benefit every citizen, I hope, thank God in the future. And since he is, I'm an educational worker, I apologize, because I'm an educational worker, and I don't doubt that you all here all know absolutely what investment in education means, I only appeal to one thing that we don't take a step back when it comes to funding secondary education. Not for that, it would be very unpopular to take a step back, because in the 21st century to take a step back in the achieved degree in education, I don't think it would be a little popular and possibly this proposal by Dr. The Genjac who later completed his amendment, I think it would be acceptable for us all here and to be useful. And I went out to appeal that we should still try to do it in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u758	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u759	Mr. President, dear colleagues, it seems to me that I am in charge of the motions for recesses today, and this time I've answered. I see we're close here and we could almost vote, put it to a vote. However, here is this amendment that Mr. Genjac has proposed, and I think it should be defined, so I suggest a break so that the clearer the proposal then we can end the debate and put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u760	I would like to thank Mr. Spajić, so that we may, then, suggest that we take an hour's break and that the minister, in the meantime, might also be a little bit. No, no, for, we'll make lunch. A lunch break and then this amendment is defined. Although I think it's around here somewhere, just to say exactly what it is. Resume at 3:00, 45 minutes break. 31 I invite you to continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We have a quorum, we can continue. I call on Mr Genjac to give further clarifications on the amendments he has tabled to the Framework Law on Fundamental General and Medium Education of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u761	Thank you. In co-operation with a group of legislators and representatives of delegation clubs, I think we have come to a solution that removes certain misunderstandings and clarifies the amendment, while retaining existing standards rather than creating additional obligations. So that the amendment that I have, in accordance with the new circumstances, changed somewhat, it would now read that Article 17, paragraph 2, changes and reads as follows: - so it remains as was high school education in public institutions is free, as it was proposed and the words "in accordance with the law" are added, with little. Meaning, therefore, the laws that exist to entities, the competent ones, which have been passed on to the competent authorities. Thus, this way, the status achieved and the standards reached in terms of secondary education are maintained, legally verified and in this law, and no additional obligations are created, but it does not prevent this issue from being resolved further and better in perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u762	I thank Mr. Genjac. Is anyone answering their word? He's not answering. I think we can access a statement on this amendment. I call upon the envoys yes. All right, here's the secretary warning me to say first that we accept the law in our first reading. I give a statement means law in first reading. Who's in favor of accepting the law in the first reading? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the law in the first reading with 14 votes in favour. 32 Immediately we will go to another reading, or statement on the amendment of Mr. Genjac. We've heard further clarifications. I think it's enough and consistent, because there wasn't any conflict of thought. We're pleading Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment. Who's for Mr. Genjac's amendment? Who's in? Thank you. I understand that we are, I apologize. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - One, I'm sorry. I find that with 13 votes in favour, without votes against and with one vote abstention, we have accepted Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment. Amendments to our law, so everything that has been adopted by the Legislative Commission becomes an integral part of the text of the Law. It's a total of 38 amendments, 39 and this is the 40th. So they become an integral part of the text of the Law and now we declare ourselves about and now we declare the total text of the law with 40 amendments adopted. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I thank and realize that with 13 votes in favour, without votes against and with 1 abstention, we have passed the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH and are now still in one obligation, since the Law on Homes is adopted in a different text, we need to establish a joint committee on text harmonisation. In our old custom and practice, this commission counts six people, and we will appoint three members from our home for this joint commission. I invite you to propose candidates. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u763	On behalf of the delegate from the Bosniak Club, I suggest Dr Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u764	Thank you. Mr. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u765	In front of the Croatian club, we propose Mr. Branko Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u766	Thank you. Mr. Branko Zrno. Mr. Milojević. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u767	On behalf of Serbian delegates, I propose Dr Vink Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u768	Thank you. We have a proposition. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I invite you to make a statement on the appointment of a committee for text alignment: Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Branko Zrno and Mr Vinko Radovanović. Who's in? I thank and realize that we unanimously appointed the Commission for text alignment. That's what we're done with the 11th agenda. Ad.12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Proposal for a Decision on the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Strazbur on 27 January 1977, Proposer of the BiH Presidency I call on the working bodies, and beyond that also the proposing representative to give us the opening arguments. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u769	So, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, I would like to inform the House that we discussed this convention at yesterday's session of the Commission and took the stand to support it. It is, in fact, that this convention was brought by the Council of Europe in 1977, in an effort to take more active steps and safer measures to combat terrorism and open up the possibility of fighting terrorism. It consists, therefore, of a series of other decisions and conventions and the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency have adopted this Convention and our commission suggests that it be accepted in the text as proposed and in this way, in fact, BiH adopts European standards and implements those obligations, which, otherwise, stand before it when it comes to membership in the Council of Europe and European integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u770	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr Filipović, Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u771	Just to inform you that the Constitutional and Legal Committee has considered the proposal for this decision at its 29th session, and has unanimously reached its conclusion that it recommends the House to give its consent to ratification. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u772	I thank Mr Filipović. On behalf of the promoter, does anyone have an explanation or no need? Here, the proposaling officer is here, but here, there seems to be no need. I appreciate that. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone need to get involved in the debate? I'm closing the debate and giving it a statement. I propose that we give consent to ratifying the Proposal for a Decision on the European Convention on the control of terrorism. Who's in? I thank and realize that, unanimously with 13 votes in favour, we agreed to ratify the proposal for a European Convention to combat terrorism on 27 January 1977, and that ended with this point. Let's go to point 13. Ad.13. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision amended and re-established the Development Credit Agreement – The project to encourage the export of businesses between BiH and the International Development Association, credit number 3257 BOS Proposer of the BiH Presidency we have received the report of the commission, but we will hear, here is Mr Čengić. Čengić, here you go on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u773	Therefore, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy or Trade Olitis discussed the issue yesterday, and this debate was a very interesting and relatively unusual debt. The reason was more, in any case, the Commission expressed great interest in this form of co-operation between BiH and the Association. However, as we were interested in getting enough information on how funds are allocated, etc. Then the discussion developed. In that sense, I can say the following. The Commission has decided to propose to Dom to adopt this updated, i.e. the re-established agreement. At the same time, discussing the conditions under which it was possible to run and get this loan. This is the case of approximately 20 million KM funds, which were placed through the IGE, which was established by BiH back in '96, and then part of the funds were placed directly through the IGE, another part through certain banks with which the IGA signed the agreement. The debate showed that the members of the Commission consider this to be a very important activity, since it is particularly related to exports, so the emphasis is on aiding exports and aiding exports. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Since we didn't have all the information we needed yesterday, we asked the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and, today, we got on the hands of one comprehensive information, which, in my opinion, is both good and satisfying and gives answers, mostly, to all the questions we had yesterday and, in short, we can say the following. 35 We have agreed on the Commission that we will request one analysis, which would show, not only the criteria under which this loan is granted, but also the effects that have been obtained. The remaining question is still the question, and if in the material that we have received there is very precise information about what the prices are, how the prices of that capital have been established towards the end-user. So, by respecting everything that is common, we will probably be on the Commission, and perhaps even later on at the House, discussing some of the elements of this issue. We believe that the information we have received has been interesting to consider from all colleagues and, of course, the question remains, to see how the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions can encourage the association to provide new and significantly greater resources, because most of the funds, by this dream, are secured and, in fact, already spent, therefore, placed, so our obligation is to give the post-festum consent to this agreement. It's strange, at least for us in the Commission, that it's possible that the agreement was signed on 2.07 last year, and that ratification is going on, here, on 18.06. so let's say, a year later. We believe that it was a kind of small irresponsibility of those who were supposed to worry about this agreement coming early into the light of day. To conclude, we believe that there is a need to give consent to this renewed agreement and we need to take advantage of the opportunity to call on the competent institutions, and above all the Council of Ministers to make further efforts, in order to, on this basis, make sure that liod of the Association or someone else, therefore, in order to encourage exports, secure new and significantly higher funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u774	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there any need to further explain the rapporteurs? Mr. brkati's picking up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u775	I thank Mr. President, I have a need to say that I have a feeling that, indeed, this Parliament's assembly has made a quality step in its work compared to earlier and, if I haven't been to the House of Peoples before, but I've been to the House of Representatives, because, indeed, all the activities we have to do on committees, we do it on time and, it seems to me with success. Namely, no material came to us without him being done on time. We held seven sessions, but, in order for all of us to be able to perform our tasks together, I am in one of the previous committee sessions, it was requested in April of the month, and this is what our chairman of the commission has written to the management of the House that, indeed, we are asking that we have more information than we can get in the press. Why am I bringing this up at this point on the agenda? Yesterday when we discussed this item of the agenda, we couldn't get enough information from the proposings, who came to us to explain why there was such a delay, and many of our questions didn't get enough answers. The criticism was very, very successful and the result is ahead of us. Today we received extraordinary material from them, 36 which, let's say, needed us to come before the commission's work for ten days and, as a delegate and as a man who works in that commission, had everything on time and there wouldn't be any misunderstandings, let's say, what was on the commission yesterday. Therefore, I urge our Home leadership to insist that all the proposings, which propose certain legislative regulations, in time provide us with the sufficient number of information needed to allow the commissions to blush effectively, and then work the House much more efficiently. I went out for the most part to say that when it's done, it can be done. The best evidence is that within 24 hours, all the necessary material came into our hands, and I am thanking these ladies, I don't know any name, but they delivered us the material we needed yesterday. This should be an example to all, that, indeed, if desired, it can be done in a short time. Fortunately, perhaps, I work in two committees and I want to say that, that sentence, we are fortunate that in both Commissions and the Administrative and Foreign Affairs Committee we have good secretaries, who in time all preparations, which are in their power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u776	I thank Mr. Brk. Who else wants to talk? Here, since there were a lot of questions on this subject yesterday, however, I call on the proposing representative to further explain these materials, because yesterday we spoke on the Commission for at least an hour about this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u777	I don't think we have much more to explain. So this is one project, you've seen in World Bank papers, which began long ago in 1999, and which is, in fact, our country has a great interest in having such an agency for these export jobs. We know the state of the economy. We know that it is very difficult for us to guarantee export jobs, to lend these export jobs, and that we really need one such agency as soon as possible. Look, so I'm not gonna talk about this. These are the data that are shown and which, you can see is doing more than well, managing the funds very well, the World Bank is being monitored. She's under surveillance until 31.12.2004. In the meantime, we now intend to you very quickly, it is our obligation from these memos, which we have signed so far from Stand Bay to propose IGI law. So far, IGA has been working on a decision by the Council of Ministers since 1999. Now that law is over and I'd just like to say two words about that law. So you see how one project was, and then it's complemented by very high-quality new jobs, new assets. These funds that can be activated have been further reinforced. They've opened up activities related to security for Loid, very high-quality and well-worked. In order to work even better and be safer and the state has one total insight, that is, to make it all in accordance with our laws, we will very quickly propose the law and, hopefully, you will be sitting on this story and that the law will go fine. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u778	I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u779	If we get serious. These are credit funds and you see very little donations. So, the credit funds that BiH was in debt, subsidically passed it on to entities, i.e. grandes, in the same way. Eh, now we have to think about how we're going to increase that guarantee fund in that agency. So they have their share, actually in order, they increase that capital too. The more business-quality, more cooperation with banks, no, these are operational assets... of the state. So they have very good cooperation with banks, share that responsibility, risk, or bank risk for these kinds of jobs. This is a fantastic development, really. In the end, it would be best if we made a deal like this. I know about this business by knowing Mrs. Director for longer Mrs. Lamija Kozarić is the director of the agency from the beginning and she should be here today and she would be one of the better friends in the details, when the first tranche of the credit, when the second, as it was all going on, but, when the law is passed, we will probably have the opportunity to get the lady to come and, seriously, explain these little things, strengthen and then we will have a debate about the board of directors of the agency, so it will be... it will be further discussed, if Bog can adopt and work on it and allow our economy to have one sure support in export affairs. We'll work with every force to secure additional, absolutely, 60 million is small. You know that any consortium when it shows up with 30 million jobs that can't find these guarantees.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u780	Thank you. If no one will, now I have the need for clarification. This is a very interesting topic, and it wasn't for no reason about an hour and a half on the commission. We asked for more information yesterday, we got them through this report and it explained a lot of things to us. However, the basic question that was on him was not answered, and I will now say it. This is why these funds for the end-user are, however, relatively unfavourable, we see here, it writes from the opportunity that it is, therefore, a library plus 0.5% plus a risk of 2-4% that is about 7-7% and that is, relatively, a five-year maturity, a grace period up to a year, and the funds, the conditions under which BH received funds are the IDA terms of 30 years 0.75% annual interest, grace period 10 years, etc. I'm curious whether in this business, it was really done in the most possible way and whether it could have happened that a bank, and yet that a stable bank and a secure bank, would be in the mood for this job, so, taking over these funds and paying off to the end user, would do it under more favourable conditions, not those who write here. Here, that's the basic question. I think it's a good thing that the law is passed and that, then, when it comes to the subject of this law, it's a great deal to talk about these issues. This is very important and important. We know what the structure is and, by the way, the state of our economy, and especially how much our external trade imbalance is, etc. And I think this is important, because unfortunately we have few instruments to stimulate exports. This, one of these, however, is, of course, reduced in these 38 means, which Mr. Čengić, the chairman of this committee on foreign policy and trade, said that it is possible to increase this fund and, then, with these resources in a high quality and rational way. I think that would be a significant contribution. True, it is, again, relatively, limited, but still a more significant contribution to encouraging our export companies. Here's the basic question. Can these funds be more advantageous for the end-user, in terms of both payment and interest? Thank you. Minister, I'd like you to tell us this for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u781	With this question, we are opening the issue, otherwise, of capital prices in BiH. You know that there have been millions of forums so far, where we have kept saying that this gate is expensive and that this justification, of course, is the first risk of investment, the undeveloped economic system, the undeveloped insurance, the legal system, this means that we have always had some reason to explain to us that it is, we need to accept that it is not so high for these conditions and the rest. So when is that price going to be lower? You know that it depends on us all the work done, on the security of these transactions, on... etc. and that, indeed, what is most important means that the World Bank has set certain conditions when it has given credit and that it is then calculated that under these conditions, under which it is placed, it pays off, means, and to our fund, which remains, these funds remain in the IGI and, therefore, they can be submitted to the exporters. Eh, now we have the opportunity to recalculate all six types – seven jobs and along with the law to really present. Now this kind of business is how it might be, if it's the combinations with the business banks that everybody has, it's the private banks that keep their money well and have the right to keep them well, but as a state, we're constantly in some situation that we don't have enough exports, that we can't and in some combinations we'll find those answers very quickly. That would be such an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u782	Thank you. Mr. brkati, then Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u783	I know this is the essence of everyone in the BiH economy's problem. That's clear to me, but now I'm interested in the essential question. Who, in fact, determines the price of capital? Please, market. What market? Is it the rubberd-out power centers, or does it have something to do with the state? Please, this is a specific question. I know what I'm asking, and I'm not happy with what the minister tells us, what they tell us is, you're insecure, this, that. We're safe when it's high interest. Oh, we're insecure when it's low interest. Look, please, so who's taking the funds here? Who? Who decides here? We have to touch that once. I would very much like to touch that, if we could get it started, because if some alienated centres can influence, what we're here for is a seagull. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u784	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u785	So, unmistakable intent to answer these serious and professional questions, which I don't consider to be an expert, but at the same time, I share the position I heard from Madam Minister. So, who determines the price of capital, we determine, above all, politicians determine politics. So, first of all, the price of any capital in any country determines the value of a state called political stability, then trust with the state, then general risk, then individual risk, then supply, then demand, and that, apparently, if there were dozens or more factors. We cannot say that the same is true if we in this home and in another home bring the laws that are needed, bring them effectively, bring them in so that they can be applied and increase the trust of people who work. That way, we have a direct impact on the price of capital. However, what Mr. Jukić was saying, this is certainly an open question. So it's very specific and it's directly related to this topic that we've discussed. Why capital, which was received through this association, under certain conditions that are very favourable 0.75%, is not, in fact, interest, it's a cost-serving issue, then a 10-year grace period, a 30-year payment. So why give this capital so favourably to BiH, the end-user does not look anything like those conditions, but costs 6-7 or 9%. There are several reasons I wouldn't go in this time. I'm afraid this is not the only one, therefore, that these are not the only credit assets that appear in BiH, or in entities, that are received under more favourable conditions, which are placed according to the end-user under significantly different conditions. I believe this is an important topic, and at the same time I don't think we can solve this issue on this point. For that reason, I think it would be good if, we agreed on a committee on foreign and trade policy yesterday that we would start a conversation on this. I think it would be good to consult with colleagues from the administrative and financial committee, hold a joint meeting, to which we will invite the director of the IGE, to which we will call the finance and vault minister and, in consultation with them, perhaps another person to consider, first of all, this case. So, I'll repeat, there's no dilemma that, even these conditions that have now end users, and this can be seen from the table that we get are satisfied by two basics. Why? Because several users have appeared more than once to look for these funds and have received them and, secondly, because the refund of the funds, which are given 100%, is careful, does not need any better diameter for the success of one line, one financial asset, the instrument of return of the funds. Mr. Mustafa disagrees with me. I think so. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u786	Do you have an export cranial declaration from those people asking you for these loans?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u787	It's got everything, because it's all pre-conditions. Mustafa, read the paper one more time, and you'll see that he can't show up as a candidate for it if he doesn't have all those papers and more. Very strict conditions, related to international not only international criteria, but international institutions. If there's anything Loid reassurances, then Loid is very concerned that it's safe to protect it. It costs and it's part of that price that we pay, but until we have strong houses, which will be internationally recognised, we have to rely on someone stronger than us and that's part of the process we've entered, and that's part of the process that takes place. So to conclude, on this point, I think it's a good thing we identified this question. It's good to find a way to put in even bigger funds. So, for these purposes of encouraging exports and, I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss this on the Commission or at a joint meeting of two committees with the competent authorities and then we can present to the House what it is and, yes, possibly jointly consider the possibility that we could increase the funds and that we could cheape those funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u788	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. I thank you all. Is anyone else answering for a debate on this subject? Since this is very interesting, but here we have heard that the law is being prepared and then there will be an opportunity to discuss this when the law is in preparation. If there are no more reports, I call on us to come forward and agree to ratify the proposal for a decision amended and re-established development loan agreement. Who's in? I thank and realize that, unanimously with 12 votes, we adopted, or agreed to ratify the proposal for a decision amended and re-established agreement on a development loan Project for the promotion of business exports between BiH and the International Association for Development, credit number 3257 BOS, proposed by the BiH Presidency. I repeated this for my stenogram. Thank you. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. Giving consent to ratifying the Proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH – Proposer of the BiH Presidency We have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm calling on the committee's representative, if he has a need to inform us. Nobody's answering. Proposer, he has Mr. Čengić. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u789	So, the proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH, proposed by the BiH Presidency, was discussed at the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy and was proposed to refer this proposal to a parliamentary procedure, namely the House of Peoples with a proposal to accept and support, approve and, at the same time, informing that, in fact, the preparation of an agreement between BiH and the European Community, which will define what is here, which is 60m euros, of which is 20m credit, and 40m is a grant for the needs of adapting BiH to European integration, above all for the needs of the Budget of BiH and the budgets of both entities. What is most important is that, in fact, BiH has an obligation to make adjustments as soon as possible, what we call reforms that would allow BiH to be a full member of European associations. In this sense, the obligation of BiH is very clear, as the agreement provides for a range of activities, including the adoption of certain laws, the implementation of other laws, the reorganisation of institutions, the efficiency of institutions, etc. The first funds have already been approved and placed on the market, the rest will depend, the next tranche cannot be made three months ago. However, the deadline is related to a number of other activities. In this respect, inter alia, the obligation to address customs duties at the state level is also an obligation. So, in order for us to continue to be in a position to raise the next funds, both credit and grand funds, we will have to do our part in the Council of Ministers, but also here in the Parliamentary Assembly. The funds are, are not insignificant and, secondly, we understand, there is the possibility that when these funds are implemented to look for and expect new funds, which will be in this same sense. For these reasons, we believe, in short, that support should be given to the Memorandum, but the Commission has also decided to propose to the House, to ask the competent institutions, in particular the Council of Ministers, to speed up the process of preparing and signing the agreement, which is, in full, what needs to define the obligations and to open the possibility of full implementation of this agreement and the spending of the 60m euros for the purposes of BiH's preparation for European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u790	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance, is there any need? There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? If there are no reports, and there are no, I conclude the debate and give a statement, or a statement, I propose that we give consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding's proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH and ended this point. 42 We move to the next item of agenda number 15. Ad.15. Giving consent to ratifying the US-BiH Agreement in connection with the handover of persons to the International Criminal Court – Proposer of the BiH Presidency I call on the competent working bodies of the commission and the proposing representatives, here, the proposing representative will give the opening arguments. After that, working bodies, or competent committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u791	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to this point of the agenda, I'm just going to give an introductory explanation. As you noticed, I am sitting here with you at this session and my primary task is to monitor the work of this house outside the BiH presidency. Secondly, you saw that there were several agreements here, where it says that the motionary is the Presidency. That's right. It is a formal proposal because all these agreements, the proposals, are proposed by the competent ministries. That's what I asked, asking the Bureau Secretariat to invite representatives of those ministries. I am thanking the lady, the finance minister for having responded and coming here, that they originally pass on how, that is, to interpret these agreements, which they have proposed, because they are also proposing to the Presidency these agreements. Because of that, I may be here as a reporter, but I have the same thing as you have the text that you've got, as I've got. So, there's no need, I don't think that's enough, because I have questions sometimes for certain things, too, so it should be in front of the competent ministry a representative who will explain the agreements in question. Well, in that sense, I just want to say, give that explanation. As far as this agreement is concerned, it is a ratification between the US and BiH concerning the handover of the person to the International Criminal Court in The Hague. I asked Mr. Kovač, however, he has a meeting, so I'll try to put it briefly, regarding this agreement. As you know, for a long time, the presidency has required the US to sign an agreement between the United States and BiH on handover to the International Criminal Court in The Hague. This may well be known to you that the Roman Statute of 1998 established a permanent criminal court in The Hague, before which all persons from all countries of the world should be held accountable for the crimes for which the Court of Justice is responsible. Article 98 of that Statute provides that certain countries may conclude a unilateral or bilateral agreement on the non-delivery of such persons. Apparently, the United States took advantage of that right and offered BiH an agreement like this. Those of you who do business, or all of us who work together in public work and who work in state institutions, are probably thinking about how to accept or reject 43 such an agreement. Apparently, after longer consultations, exchanges of views, the Bureau accepted that at this time, however, it is better to sign this agreement than to reject it and, if one is a bad variant and a bad solution for BiH, given that it is also a signator of the Rome Statute. What are the reasons, I would not have talked about it, it was likely at this time that certain facts were and the situation was BiH's defining that such an agreement should be signed. The European Union is certainly not satisfied with that. As far as I know, you've even been given a written act, which requires this agreement not to be ratified. As you've read, we only have three important things here. Here it is required that citizens, i.e. citizens and the US and former members of military missions will not be delivered to the International Criminal Court in The Hague, then that BiH will not deliver such persons to other countries for the handover to the International Court in The Hague and, thirdly, that BiH will not accept and give consent that the other country delivers its citizens, i.e. citizens to that court. So, these are, on occasion, three basic obligations, which BiH has accepted with this agreement. Also, it should be borne in mind that, and that there is no agreement, given our position, the Dayton Agreement of BiH at this time, and based on the Dayton Agreement cannot deliver anyone to any court or any state, because for all persons who are now on missions in BiH are protected by the Dayton Agreement and, in the end, I think that this House will respect these reasons and the same agreement, means to give consent to the ratification of this agreement. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u792	Thank you. I call upon the representatives of the working bodies of the committees, yes, if there is a need to report. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk about the agreement in question? Until someone picks up their word, I'll brief you. From the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we have received one letter from the chairman of both of our parliamentary assemblies. This memo is shared to you and I, of course, have no intention of reading it. You've met. It says here what we as a state have taken over by signing the Roman treaty. Niko wants to talk. I expected Mr. Spasojević's colleague to get a little involved. However, apparently... since there are no applicants, I call on the envoys to plead and agree to ratify the agreement between the United States and BiH in connection with the handover of persons to the International Criminal Court. I call for a plea. Who's in? Who's against it? uzdržati? – 2 44 I thank you and I agree that with 10 votes for, without votes against – 2 abstentions, it was agreed to ratify the US-BiH Agreement in connection with the surrender of persons to the International Criminal Court. Thank you. We're done with the 15th agenda. At item 5, we concluded that we would continue the fifth agenda in the follow-up of our session. I suggest that for today's session we finish, and on the sequel, which will be, very likely at the end of this month, quite certainly, but we will, however, arrange a date and time, after we agree, according to our rules of procedure, we will determine it on the College. I thank you all for your work, for your response, and I'll see you later in this session. Thank you, everyone. 45 Dear guests, Excellencys, gentlemen of public information means, I welcome you all. The 8th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the way. As you know, at our last session, i.e. at the 8th session, we closed the session session on the subject - Request for consideration of the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the session’s interruption were in the session itself in that part of her first sentence. I'll do it again for a while. So it was not quite clear from the Council of Ministers that the request by which member was to be, it was simply said that it was an emergency procedure, according to which member. The debate discusses the need for precision and otherwise the Law itself. So here's what I suggest we go in a way that sets out a request to consider the proposal for this transitional law and I suggest that it be, and that's in line with our college, it's in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening up here again means debate. It is open, but I am reopening the debate once again, meaning the procedure, and I propose that this law be considered in accordance with Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. I am closing the debate and I urge you to enter into a plea to consider the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration to consider Article 100. Who's in? Thank you. I'm on it. Who's against it? uzdržati? - One thanks. 46 I conclude that with 13 votes for, without votes against, with one abstention, we have adopted the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. As you know, amendments do not apply to this law under Article 100. I'm opening a debate on the law. Here I am obliged to inform you all about the memo that came from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives which discussed this material, or the Law at its 27.6 session, notice of correcting the technical error. Dear Members, we would like to inform you that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina was held at the 16th session of 26.6.2003 on the verification of the minutes of the 15th session on 12 and 13. Six. In 2003, it found that in the text of the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration, which was delivered to homes, our letter number: 04-02-638/03 of 13.6.2003, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina made a technical error. Namely, Article 11 instead of "entity customs manager", should stand "the customs administrations of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Accordingly, Article 1(1) of Article 11 states: - The administration has been using all movable and immovable assets from earlier customs administrations of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the former customs services of the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina since the date on which this law enters into force. I ask you to respect this amendment, so that the law in question may be considered in the parliamentary procedure. With respect, the Council of Ministers, chairman Adnan Terzić. I think we can appreciate this. It means this one, like it says, is a technical error. Here after this information, that is, the debate is open. Who wants to take part in the debate on the law in question? Is anyone answering for a hearing? Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Mr. Silegovic, the president of the Serbian People's Club in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u794	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, with the view that there have been different interpretations in the means of informing the position of delegates in the order of the Serbian people, I am obliged to say the following. 47 Representatives of Republika Srpska in this higher house know that this is a transitional law of temporary character and that it introduces an institution of the board of directors and the institution of directors and thus begins the process of uniting customs administrations and establishing an indirect taxation administration. Meanwhile, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, led by the Madam Minister, has made certain repairs, i.e. some ambiguities have been made and here we see in this latest reading that some irregularities have been corrected. The House of Representatives also adopted this transitional law on 27.6. In a regular parl, the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we expect entity authorities and entity institutions to participate. The National Assembly of Republika Srpska has obliged delegates in this House and the House of Representatives to install certain amendments in this framework law procedure and in this direction representatives from Republika Srpska in this House will support the adoption of a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of customs duties, the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u795	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u796	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, we are facing an extremely important act of voting for a very important project, a legislative project from a set of reform projects. So the vote for legal projects that I expect today will, by adopting, make the assumptions that the major steps needed for the reform processes in the area of customs and indirect taxation and, of course, VAT. Our vote today for this law means confirming our commitment to reform, because this legislative project, regardless of the transitional legal solution, is a significant part of the reform package. As the Bosniak Club and this technical intervention by the Council of Ministers, we really only consider it a matter of precision and technical rather than essential intervention. So also with this memo by the Council of Ministers, with this correction and in view of all this I said, explaining the importance of this law, as the Bosniak Club, we will support this legal project and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u797	I thank Mr. Genjac. Competent working bodies on behalf of the promoter. Mr. Zno. Here you go, Mr. Bean. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u798	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Croatian Representatives' Club, I welcome the adoption and adoption of such a law, but with a few accompanying words. It's about the transitional law. It seems to me that in the procedure of voting the transitional law on customs duties and indirect taxation that we cannot be satisfied with the procedure, because it is undefined, undefined, there was no faith, or there was no such time pressure to offer the law of this kind without the right of amendment action. That's the first one. I hope that mistake is corrected in three months. Because in one article, I think the other is said that this law is time-limited. That's why it's transitional. It is worth 3 months, and I would ask the authorities not to extend its transition to more than 3 months and to offer us in a different form, the form of normal congregation procedure, or in a proposal for a normal assembly procedure. It's a grudge to this law. The second is too much of a grudge, it seems too limited, and we know that it is ambitious and must be ambitious, because the law is of vital interest to this country, and sometimes this law reminds me more of a memorandum or a resolution that has been made because of a director where I also do not accept the procedure of the promoter and the appointment, because the Director, the Director, should be appointed by the Council of Ministers Act, and not by that, that is personal opinion, in a way that is proposed and imagined in this law. The law, the transitional law, we accept and I hope that you too accept those remarks that are now mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-18-0.u799	I thank Mr. Branko Zrn. Who else wants to talk about the law? No more reports. I suggest we approach the statement on the text of the law. Just one reminder, as it is a matter of considering the Law under Article 100(2), there are no amendments, the competent working authorities were not also in a position to consider the law in question, the representative does not consider, here is no one calling him, therefore, I do not know whether there is a need to explain the Law. If there's any need to be. And if not, I suggest we approach the statement on the text of the law. We're pleading to the law. Who is to adopt such a text of the law? Who's in? Who's against it? uzdržati? - One thanks. 49 I agree that with 13 votes for, without votes against, with 1 vote abstention, we passed the Law, the transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration, and that ended with the 8th session. I suggest we take a short break, or a 15-minute break, when we decide after the break and start working on our 9th session, and by then we will conduct brief consultations and prepare this hall in a technical sense for the continuation, or for the beginning of the 9th session. So in 15 minutes or 15 to 12 I'll see you here with the beginning of the 9th session. I thank you all. The session was completed at 11:30.
