ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u19	Representatives, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all, and I would like to congratulate the representatives of the Muslim people in BiH on the past Bayram holidays, Bajram Sheriff Mubarek Olsun. I am opening the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session is attended by 15 envoys, so everyone from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian nations. Since we have a quorum, we can make decisions and make decisions. For this second session, I suggest you get the following agenda in the materials: 1. Agents' Issues 2. Journal of the Constitutional Sessions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 3. Replacement of members of the committees of the House of Peoples; 4. Proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, is proposed under Article 100; 5. Proposal for a law on the import and export of arms and military equipment, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, is proposed to go in accordance with Article 100; 6. The Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH, the Law adopted a High Representative and was published in the Official Journal; 7. The Law on the Control of the Quality of Certain Products, when importing and exporting, proposes to the Council of Ministers, proposes to go in accordance with Article 99. This is a possible agenda and I am opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Mr Pamuk answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u20	First of all, I welcome all of you, to those whom we have not been able to congratulate, who were not in the previous assembly, I want to congratulate the elections and I want this congregation to work in the highest quality possible. I answered the word with the intention of asking my fellow Members to take this point 4. Proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration, proposed by the Council of Ministers and adopted by Article 100. Rules of Procedure, let's move to, as the last item of the agenda, simply because we got some information this morning, some demands from some institutions, 2 such as the National Bank of BiH, that, the Central Bank of BiH, something is wrong with its position in the law. We did not get this position from the Council of Ministers, and in this sense, and that the Assembly could take a high-quality stand, and I am asking that we move this as a last resort, because the Council of Ministers is sitting right now and is likely to have a position at that session on this request of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u21	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Who else wants to take a word for it, take part in the debate? Until he answers, I'll only have one brief explanation for all of us, and for our public. In fact, during yesterday I received a letter from the Central Bank of BiH, signed by the Governors of Mr. Piter Nikola and in this letter Mr. nikol warns us, our home that in the proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration, a certain failure has been made in Article 11, where certain definitions concerning the jurisdiction of this resolution ministry are contrary to the Central Bank Act and the Constitution of BiH, Article 7. We have, of course, consulted and before this session we have also held meetings of clubs and, behold, from the occasion of what Mr Pamuk said, it is an attitude, it seems to me our clubs and I think it would be good to do as suggested to move point 4. The law on the BiH administration's ministries and other bodies last and until then we have time to consult and hear the Council of Ministers' position on the issue. Is there anyone who wants to talk about this? If not, I suggest we do this replacement position on the agenda. When, in order to make point 4, it becomes point 7. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Abstained? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the proposal, made an amendment, and point 4. became point 7 of this point to get their new regular seats. If there are no more applications to discuss the agenda, I suggest that the agenda with this amendment, which we have now adopted, be accepted. Who's on the agenda like this? Does anyone mind? Abstained? There isn't. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposed agenda with this said change. We'd move right to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Mr. Representatives, here you go. Mr. Limov, come in. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u22	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, esteemed guests, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of public announcement funds, distinguished fellow envoys, all of you who attend this session, I would like to warmly welcome in this first address, I would like to join in my congratulations on the Bayram holidays of our colleagues and all those who celebrate them right at the beginning, before I ask an emissary question, let me say something that I feel like a commitment to, and it is a single finding that we cannot really raise ourselves before ourselves and the democratic world as a whole. By the way, of us 15 exhibitors of this high house, there is no, unfortunately, any lady. Knowing us as we are will be in the future, though we did not choose ourselves, rather than this, primarily directed to others. Of course, in this sense, we are considerate and declare that we accept equality in that segment, but, here, what happens happens to us. I would like to use this opportunity, when I was behind this speaker, to announce an initiative to supplement BiH's election law, in which a provision will be incorporated to select at least one woman, or at least three women, in each of the three national clubs of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is understood that, when the time comes, the initiative will pass the legal procedure and I want to believe that it will receive the plebistric need of all relevant entities, especially the envoys of this home. I now want to ask one question to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Mirsad Keba, and I ask him yes, in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples answered in writing, so to the next question. How many and what returnees are constantly employed in public enterprises of Elektroprivreda, Post office and telecommunications Herceg Bosnia and RS Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the country of health in the following municipalities: Zvornik, Visegrad, Derventa, Teslic, Bugojno, Travnik, Kakanja, Glamoc, Stolac and Capljina? I would ask Mr. Minister to indicate, individually, the nationality of employees of returnees in the said public enterprises and institutions in the response by municipalities. Mr. President, I am delivering my question to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u23	Thank you. Until someone else decides on the question I have one question for the Council of Ministers, so, ladies and gentlemen, since there is no one here from the Council of Ministers, as I am informed, the session is under way, I hope they will discuss this item of our agenda, therefore, the law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration. The issue is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resoring Ministry of Communications and Transport. 4 The question is, What is the amount and method of the distribution of licences for international transport of goods? In fact, it has been known that for a long time, and especially in recent years, all our carriers involved in the transport of goods in international transport have been having a lot of trouble providing the necessary number of permits for the transport of goods and goods in international transport. I'm interested in why these problems have been this big for many years and I'd like... information from many people and businesses dealing with this business to question even the possibility of their normal business. I don't know if the problem is in the number of these permits, maybe it is. I don't know what the Council of Ministers is going to do and what makes this problem go away, to secure a sufficient number of permits, I mean these annual semp of permits and one-time permits. In particular, these annual permits and permits are problematic for some countries, such as Italy, Austria, Germany and others. It's also known that whoever has the capacity, licensed vehicles and has arranged jobs, if there are no these permits is not in a position to do this job. It is also known that a significant part of these jobs is a foreign lieutenant. So it's about exporting the service, and we know that we need exporting in every sense, and I would ask the Council of Ministers and the relevant BiH institutions to do everything to ensure that in the next period there are sufficient permits and fair and fair distribution of the permits available, because there are information, I haven't checked them, I'm not saying that they are correct, there are certain and irregularities in the distribution of these permits and therefore once again messages to those responsible for doing everything to ensure a sufficient number of permits and a fair and fair distribution of these permits. Thank you. If we don't have any more parliamentary questions, I suggest we move to agenda two. Ad.2. The record of the Constitutional Sessions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received the record in your materials and I am opening a debate on this point. I don't see anyone answering for a hearing. It means there's no objection to the record. I give the plea, the adoption of the minutes from the constitutive session. Who's in? There's no one to fight or to hold back. Thus, a unanimous minutes from the first, or constitutive sessions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina were adopted. Thank you. Ad.3. Replacement of members of the committees of the House of Peoples at our session of the College we discussed the full committee of our home and we agreed the following. We agreed that at the head of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I would like to invite the presidents of the clubs to present these amendments that have been agreed on at the clubs, and I think they are also in line with the College. Here you go. Mr. Šiljegović on behalf of the Serbian People's Club. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u24	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, respected delegates, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the Serbian delegates, the delegates of the Bošnjak, the Bayram Festival and to present congratulations to all Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Serb people's delegations' club in the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been peded by Goran Milojević and Boško Šiljegović. Today, we propose to execute Mr Goran Milojević from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we propose Mr Nad Radović in this commission. So the replacement at the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples instead of Nad Radović goes to Mr Goran Milojević. This would be the proposal of the Club of Serbian Delegates, and I ask the President when I am here not to go out again, to try to agree on the calendar programme of the work of the House of Peoples and to be under the obligation of the representatives of the Council of Ministers at our meetings, therefore, that these programmes be brought into line, so that if they should take a break from their sessions, but to attend the meetings of the House of Nations, and I ask that you members of the College agree those dates, that they do not happen to hold a session at 10 and we move the agenda points, to wait for their suggestions and opinions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u25	Mr. Anto Spajić on behalf of the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me welcome you all here and it is my honor to congratulate all those who worship this holiday in front of the Croatian club of representatives. Gentlemen, in front of the Croatian club, the proposal for the Constitutional and Legal Commission is Mr. Ilija Filipović, president and member of Mr. Tomislav Limov. Foreign Trade and Policy Commission Anto Spajić is the first deputy and member of Mr Velimir Jukić. The Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs, Mr Branko Zrno, means the second deputy and Mr. Velimir Jukić is a member. So, there was a change in this third commission instead of Mr. Ilija Filipović, Mr. Velimir Jukić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u27	I thank Mr. Spajić and invite Mr. Genjac on behalf of the Bosniak Club, if there are any changes. There isn't. Thank you. Is there a need for this debate, or are we going to adopt it immediately? I don't think there's any need. I suggest we adopt these changes. Who's in? Because I thank her unanimously. 6 Ad.4. The proposal for a law on the import and export of arms and military equipment is proposed by the Council of Ministers to consider this under Article 100 of our Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen, you've got these materials. You know, that the House of Representatives has considered, adopted and, behold, I am opening a debate on this agenda point. Mr. brkati, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u28	I thank and use the opportunity to congratulate all BiH Muslims Kurban Bayram
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u29	For the sake of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wanted to ask one question about this law, because I talked to more people and I didn't get a clear enough answer. In any case, I abide by this law all is well, however, I have one question that I could raise my hand to that law, I would like an answer from professional people. When we talk there about international conventions, about arms trafficking, does BiH refer to an embargo that has on the countries of Southeast Europe? Is our law going to be irrelevant, it won't be possible to apply, have we checked that embargo and now it's true for BiH? Because if he's in international conventions, then we might as well raise our hand, and our military industry in BiH won't have first because of the embargo that works so we can put the key in the locks in all the factories. I'm asking for an answer to that question, so I can vote for that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u30	Thank you. Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u31	Here's how my colleague Pamuk got ahead of me at the beginning, and I thought, behind Mr. Chairman Jukić, that I should talk here together and just for the sake of congratulations. You know, don't, namely, I also want on my own personal behalf and on behalf of all the people who chose me here to congratulate you Bošnjak primarily on the happy Bayram holiday and all the Muslims in BiH, and I agree with what counterpart Brka said that, with respect to each other, it can only be better here for all of us living in this country. I also welcome representatives of public information funds and, of course, dear guests. According to this item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment, there is a Proposer, as we know the Council of Ministers, and it is proposed that the law be adopted by the Member of our 100th Psolnik. I would like to say that given that foreign trade policy is in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions and, given the current foreign-political but also the internal political situation of the bill, that it can be adopted in my opinion. It is necessary to point out that such a law can be seen as an act that has a dose of any reasonable urgency but that this principle cannot be extended and misused on draft laws that do not have a similar specific weight. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u32	I thank Mr. Milojević. Anyone else want to talk about the law? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u33	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you and join those who have already congratulated Bajram
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u34	I also thank all of you who have congratulated the Muslims Bajram here today and I would like to say just a few words about this law. I find this law extremely important, first of all, that we are on the opportunity from Dejton to this day to have a law that regulates this area of activity uniquely for the whole of BiH. Secondly, because our military industry in BiH was an extremely important segment of the overall industry in BiH, and particularly important when it comes to exports. Thirdly, in a situation where we are and in which we are thinking about what a few other products might be done outside of BiH, it is natural that both the Council of Ministers and all those who are looking for an economy are asking in which way these exports can be increased and it would be good to think about how we can organise a joint appearance on the outside, because the military industry is not only BiH, but also the former states have been extremely integrated and connected so that these issues are very important and I do not see any of us here who could say that it is not interested and not concerned. On the other hand, this law unfortunately emerged more as a consequence of external interest and pressure than as a consequence of our internal determination and willingness to find a solution in this important segment. From the fact that he is a result of certain pressure from the outside, then the solutions offered in him are such that we have not had enough opportunity or opportunity to discuss them, and especially we in this home may be offering suggestions and suggestions. Of course, it is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be the part of the international community that respects international decisions, and in particular the decisions of the Security Council, and in this respect every violation of the Security Council's decisions is unacceptable, unacceptable and counterproductive to us. However, I personally believe that some of the solutions offered in this law are incomplete, ineffective, in what way is it unclear that an institution that is neither equipped nor prepared for this job, which is the Ministry of Foreign Trade can run these affairs and finally when it comes to part of the sanctions regulation, it seems to me that we are going back to some of the solutions that are ancient past. In that sense, I will be very clear, I believe that the penalties for the acts that violate the provisions of this law are too high, so absolutely too high. They are too high in relation to solutions in other countries in Europe, and they are particularly high in relation to the penalties already imposed for much more serious crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina or in international courts. In that sense, I believe that we are brought into one situation today in which we cannot greatly influence the change in this text, and that is why I would like it if we came to a conditional oral agreement today to support this law today in the form in which 8 came before us, and then to agree that, within a reasonable, relatively short time, we should prepare amendments to discuss them and put those amendments to this law that will really enable our industry which can be a very significant exporter to cooperate and be able to export in the way that is common in the world. So respecting international standards, while at the same time not reducing our capacities and our export opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u35	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to take part in the debate about this law? I don't see any more reports. I think we can respect what the gentlemen have been saying, so this is a very important law, a very important area, and I think it would be a good solution today for us to adopt this text of the law, and this is what we are and we are planned to do, Article 100 of our Rules of Procedure, and then really, and that is normal in the coming period, we have ideas and initiatives and requirements for then to make certain and corrections and repairs to this law as well as other laws of course. Here, if you don't mind. _________:? I didn't get the answer to my question. [[speaks from place, doesn't understand]] I'm sorry, I don't know how we're going to do this technically, because there are unfortunately no people from the Council of Ministers here, and I think it would be very interesting to hear this answer. I don't know if you have a specific suggestion on how to get to it. Well, here we go again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u37	I would really like to hear the answer for what I said for the reason Mr. Čengić said after me. I think it's a very important thing and that simply the promoter is obliged to question the answer to this session so that I can raise my hand for it. I'm in favor of the law, but I want it to be clear to me, and I think we should all have delegates and the public to be clear. I am afraid that this way we will actually bring our military industry all the way to Bosnia and Herzegovina with a key in the lock. He's not gonna be able to get repromatter, he's not gonna be able to do this, he's not gonna be able to do that. If that embargo still applies to this area. _________:? [[inaudible, speaking from place]] I don't know. I'm gonna ask you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u39	Okay. Thank you. I call on those who have something to say to tell everyone about the pay phone, so maybe we'll work things out sooner. ____________:? [[inaudible, speaking from place]] Mr. Spasojević, I'd like to ask you if you have anything on this point. ____________:? [[inaudible, speaking from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u42	Thank you. I don't want to explain here, I don't want to get involved in giving, giving answers, especially Mr. Brk, but I have to tell you something. I'll tell you, I worked very long and very hard in that dedicated industry before the war. I worked with the UNIS, and I knew very well the legislation of our former state. This law has a lot of uncertainty, especially when it comes to the area here we want to regulate through the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Foreign Trade. It's never been regulated through that ministry. It's always had its own special treatment. But this law, however, has a lot of indetermination, it is quite clear. But because of the situation in which we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina and due to the need for time, I suggest that we adopt this law exactly as Mr. Čengić has suggested, that we immediately move into some of its corrections and make it one, to put it into one position, to one quality position that the military industry can be like the industry benefiting Bosnia and Herzegovina from all aspects and income, as well as the employment of labour. You know, in the military industry in the previous state, there were a lot of people doing it, and we should do it if we can do it normally, if it fits into the international conventions in the coming period. So right now, I really want to ask here to pass this law without a lot of decommitment, and to draw an immediate conclusion, perhaps, in the coming period, that we should go to its quality changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u43	I thank Mr. Pamuk. There's a situation here. I'll suggest how to get out of this situation right now. I think we can do it two ways. First of all, Mr. brkati doesn't insist on the current response, because I don't think we're technically able to do that 10. And the second is to postpone the statement about this law, that I don't know either, that it's going to be... that it's just behind the break that I'm hoping to determine because we delayed this point for the seventh. The moustache doesn't insist, does it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u44	I'll tell you right now, I'll vote for the law. But I leave this as a question to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u45	I thank Mr. Brk for this constructive proposal. In the end, I think the conditions have been met that we can vote on this law in the text proposed. First request to follow Article 100. That's right. So we're voting for this law to be passed under Article 100. Who's up for a proposal like this? Thank you. Unanimity. Now I suggest we vote this law in the text proposed here. Who's in? Thank you. Unanimity. We unanimously passed this law as offered in the text. That would end up with this four, going to the fifth point of the Ad agenda. 5. The Law amending the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina was passed by the High Representative. This law was published in the 41/02 Official Messenger. The clarification - you know that at the end of the year, he set a deadline in which a significant number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are abroad, lost their citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fact that at that time the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while our home was not being established, was not possible to pass this law in regular procedure, so at the House of Representatives of the Peoples. Then the High Representative will use his powers under the Dayton Agreement to pass this law. Here's a brief explanation. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who wants to talk? Here you go. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u46	Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have to, I'm just at the pay phone, maybe it wasn't appropriate that, where I was sitting, it wasn't appropriate to talk, I was supposed to go out for a pay phone, and I apologize for saying so. But I don't think it's appropriate that there aren't any representatives of the Council of Ministers and that the future should be provided in some way by the presence, or that you from the College should be in touch with them so that the session isn't scheduled at the same time. We don't have any things we want to ask, we don't have 11 people to ask. He's right, Mr. brkati. He wants a man to get answers to some questions. As far as this very proposal for a law adopted by the High Representative is concerned, I think that in front of the Club of Serbian Delegates, we are in favour of this proposal brought by the High Representative, although we are not in principle so that all laws are passed by emergency procedure, i.e. highly urgent, as stated here in our Rules of Procedure, Article 100. It's supposed to be laws that are extraordinary sometimes when something can't be done. But we've got today's agenda in which four laws are by emergency procedure, one by the High Representative, one by article 99 in the short term. And I don't think that practice would be good. And as for this law itself, I think it suits the representatives of Serbs, as well as representatives of all peoples, because the High Representative made sense here by extending this deadline for another 10 years for all of our citizens who are out of the country, who have yet to identify which citizenship they will take and that this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u47	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Is there anyone else who would like to report for the hearing? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u48	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, we're going to look from today to probably the next half of the year, and maybe every time we talk about not agreeing to go by the fastest procedure. We're gonna have to do it like that. And this law is very important, and it is good that the High Representative imposed it on him in the light that he really set out the deadline and that we could come into a situation that a large number of people who have the right and want to exercise this right would not have the opportunity to continue to be citizens of this country. For this reason, of course, we know the rules that at this stage nothing can be changed in this law, and I join all those who feel that we should support this law to adopt it, not because it is the best solution, but because it is adopted so that we can continue working on it. On the other hand, I would be very pleased if we could find ways and ways to work together and put this law in priority between the meetings. I know it's 10 years to solve this issue, but I don't see any reason to wait 10 years to solve this. So I'd like to make a deal with Mr. Chairman, so let this be my initiative for all of us to initiate amendments and amendments to this law in the next three months. So today, let's accept it and adopt it, and in the next three months to initiate changes and supplement this law to make it fully modern, i.e. to find solutions to the issue - can we as a state sign each, with each country individually when we have a situation that a large number of states do not sign any special dual citizenship agreements. So, it is certainly one important thing, because I believe that we are all aware of one fact – today the Bosnian diaspora for Bosnia and Herzegovina represents a more important fact perhaps than ever in its history. And on the other hand, I don't think one of the three constituent nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina is any more privileged to the other two in this matter. That's it. from all three nations due to 12 known facts, a large number of people are now out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a large number of people have decided to live there for longer, or perhaps shorter time. A large number of people there have already organised their own business, some of their business, and we need to find ways and ways to keep these people tied to Bosnia and Herzegovina and find ways to help further develop Bosnia and Herzegovina. First, through the potential direct investment of their own, and second through all those communications and connections they have and which they have achieved in the world and which they will achieve. For this reason, this issue is not only a question of a modern-organised and European-organised state, which Bosnia and Herzegovina should be and I think we agree on that, but it is also a matter of our ability to find a way to involve these citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are out there in our faster and more efficient development. For this reason, I propose once again that within three months we prepare our joint proposal to amend and supplement this law, and that we support it today in the text proposed and imposed by the High Representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u49	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then I suggest that what's said in these two discussions, and it's actually almost identical, I suggest we pass this law with a conclusion here so that we can work on changes and additions to this law. We need to adopt it in the text as it was brought and that within the time limit here, I don't know if three months is short, but certainly as soon as possible
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u50	(speaks from place-unreadable)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u51	I think it would be a good idea if maybe this three months, Mr. Čengić, I don't know whether to limit myself to three months or to six months, or one of the shortest deadlines, let's say six months to go. Here. Okay. Thank you for your competence. So we can adopt the conclusion, or first the law, and then the conclusion. I'm going to try to formulate it now. So we go with the initiative towards the Council of Ministers that as soon as possible, and for the longest time in six months, we start with amendments and additions to this law so that it becomes a modern law that would allow me, too, to address the issue of citizenship and other citizenship according to standards as many European countries do. __________:? [[speaks from place doesn't understand]] Yes, there it is. Then can we vote first on this conclusion and then we'll talk about the law. First law. Okay. I suggest we make a statement about the law. 13 Who's in? Unanimity. I thank you all. Now I suggest we make a statement about the conclusion that was said not to repeat it now. Who's for the conclusion we said? Unanimity. I thank you all. We've passed the law and the conclusion, relating to this law. That's what we're done with the 5th points, we're going to go to the 6th point of the agenda. Ad.6. The Quality Control Act of certain products on import and export - is proposed by the Council of Ministers, as referred to in Article 99. You've got these materials. I'm opening a debate on this law. Here you go. Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u53	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of Serbian Delegates cannot accept the reasons of the Council of Ministers that this law goes according to Article 99, and I suggest that this law be referred to a regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u54	Thank you. So, the matter of procedure, related to the interpretation of this law. Who else wants to hear from you? Okay. I understand that this is the position of the Serbian People's Club and I think we can and should not plead. So that's how it's done. We will formally raise our hands that the law goes into regular procedure. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u55	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, before a statement on the proposal of the Club of Serbian Delegates, I would only suggest that future proposals, however, go with the shortest reasons. Since they are now lagging behind, I am not asking, I do not insist on giving an explanation, but I would ask for the productive work and more specific and setting up with a view to such proposals, to explain themselves in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u56	Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u57	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we feel that normal procedure should not be explained. We're looking for an explanation for an emergency procedure. So we're looking for a normal procedure, because we don't consider this argument valid. We're looking for an explanation for an emergency procedure. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. We will now declare the procedure here, and in fact, it is clear that it will be a regular procedure, because the Club of delegates of the Serbian people disagrees with the shortened procedure. So, the Council of Ministers' request is that we plead to which procedure we are. Who is it to be considered by the procedure set out in Article 99? Who's in? - Six for who's against it? - 8 Restraint Chairman. I thank and find that this request for review of this law has not been supported by the shortened procedure of Article 99. So he's going into a regular procedure. We already have an idea for a break. I think she's quite justified and certainly we'll give a break from, what, half an hour or an hour. An hour before we just settle for two or three things. If they're willing, if you're sharing my opinion that we should take this break and set up a committee. They are already known to elect the presidents, etc. And that in an hour, we meet here and get in touch with the Council of Ministers to see if they're willing and when to give clarifications. So here I am determining that the College, the club president, will get in touch. The Commission, if they're willing and able to work. Here, let the commission be in three cabinets of the chairman. Here's the board of administrative which Mr. Milojević, the Foreign Office of Mr. Pamuk and the Ustavno-pravan and Legal Code, in the office of the chairman. In an hour, we'll continue. Our break lasted a little longer, but here's the thing, I'd say justifiable reasons. [[PAUZA]] Meanwhile, many consultations have been carried out. There was an attempt to find a solution to getting out of this emerging situation. I suggest we go with our 7th agenda. Ad.7. The proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration is proposed by the Council of Ministers and proposes that Article 100 be followed. I suggest we discuss the procedure. So, should we go for article 100? What does that mean? What are the options, and considering certainly the letter that we are and this is the new situation that we received yesterday afternoon or this morning, depends on how any of the representatives, the governor of Mr. Piter Nikola's Central Bank. This letter, as you know, states that certain provisions of this law are contrary to, and that is precisely what Article 11 of this proposed law says, that it is contrary to the Central Bank Act of BiH, "the Official Messenger of BiH", Nos. 1/97 and 29/02, and that it does not comply with the BiH Constitution Article 7. Here I am opening a debate on the procedure, not the text of the law itself. Who wants to hear from you? Mr. Genjac, here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u59	Dear colleagues, respected guests, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, we have at this meeting a proposal from the Council of Ministers to discuss the law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration under Article 100. Which means "take it or leave it" in the daily jargon. It is known that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, meanwhile, passed the law. Meanwhile, for MPs, or delegates to this house today before the session, a letter came from the governor of the Central Bank of Mr. Piter Nikola. In a letter, certain items of the law dispute from the aspect of compliance with the Constitution and the Central Bank of BiH Act. Therefore, we are in a position to, in my opinion, not have enough elements to decide whether to discuss this law on the procedure of Article 100. I think it is necessary that before we enter into our statement whether this law will be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 100. That's whether we'll vote for him without being able to change. I think that before that statement it would be necessary to consult the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is now, just established and which has scheduled its first session for Tuesday and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission consults specifically and specifically, precisely, on these issues which Mr Piter nikol has in his problem. Of course, the College of the House and others, who perform significant functions of this home, would consult with other experts in this area and present this home, which would make assumptions that the House of Peoples declares whether it can go into the procedure of Article 100 or any other procedure. Therefore, I propose that this session be suspended at this time and that the continuation be determined after the Constitutional and Legal Committee session, which will be held on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u60	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. All right, then in order. Mr. Spasojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u61	Mr. Chairman, as far as the agenda is concerned, we from the Serbian people consider it as I will try to bring it out, and then we will determine what is most important and there is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who will help us solve this problem. We think that what Mr. Piter nikol sent us is not in violation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is contrary to the Law on Banks, or the banking system, but we consider that the Council of Ministers should be above that law, so that he has the right to submit a proposal, as regards this point itself, the disputed point 11 in which Article 11 states that the banking regulations relating to the functioning of the Central Bank of BiH, the Ministry of Treasury is therefore necessary, and we believe that we can now adopt this law under this reduced procedure under Article 100 means that we decide for him and to adopt him and to put him in charge of the ministry, means the Ministerial advice that at the first next session, he can now adopt 16 draft laws on this law, because this has already been passed in the Parliamentary Assembly and that we first go through the Parliamentary Assembly and then through the House, and then through the Dom People, we will not say it in this way, so far, so far, and so far we do not break in the law. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u62	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers Adnan Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u63	Gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I want to apologize first that no one from the Council of Ministers and I have been to the opening of your session. There's been a little confusion. We've notified everyone that the Council of Ministers has a session every Thursday at 10 o'clock. Given the large number of obligations we have in the week, we set Thursday, and I am not sorry that this house was called up at that very time. I would ask in the future that we, however, adjust the calling of the House of Peoples to this term, not because we are more important than you, but that, indeed, we have a number of people who have operational obligations during the week and that is repeated from day to day. When we talk about this law, since it is not debated, I do not want to open any debate, but I must, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, simply cannot accept that anyone or Mr nikol is questioning whether it is something that the Council of Ministers is doing under my chairmanship or not. I responsibly argue that the invitation of Mr. Nikola to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina has, in this case incorrectly, given us the possibility of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and gave Mr. Piter Nikola even the obligation to determine after six years on this issue. I'll just briefly read Article 7 he's calling on, Article 7. The BiH Constitution, which talks about Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank. A second position, the first point says: The central bank's competencies will be determined by the Parliamentary Assembly. However, within six years of the entry into force of this constitution, the Central Bank will not be able to lend loans by printing money or function as a currency commission. After that period, the Parliamentary Assembly may give that competence to the Central Bank. Now there's a question. On what basis can the Parliamentary Assembly give this power to the Central Bank? Only on the grounds that the Council of Ministers will refer one such proposal to the parliamentary procedure through its resolution Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Simply, there is no other way, but this way, and we have only for the ministry newly formed Ministry of Finance and Treasury provided through these bank regulations, which relate to the functioning of the central bank, that if, in future, the need arises that after these six years that have already expired, we talk about the function of the Central Bank. We have within the Council of Ministers a competent institution, a competent ministry that can initiate these regulations, in fact, this procedure. So, I am responsible for saying that this letter sent by Mr. nikol may stand, when it comes to the Central Bank Act, but it is a matter of alignment, but I am responsible for saying that it does not stand against the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u64	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Who else wants to take part in the debate? So we have two suggestions. We have a proposal for Mr. Spasojević and Mr. Genjac. So if one doesn't get most.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u65	(speaks from the site)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u66	I'll repeat Mr. Genjac's proposal. He said that we should stop our session at this moment and ask for the Constitutional and Legal Commission's indication of this new situation and that we are being shown whether it is a violation of the BiH Constitution. If there is no need for clarification, I suggest we make a statement on this proposal. Who's up for a proposal like this? - Ten for the counter? - 5 against So this proposal didn't get the necessary majority. It's not entity, it's clear from our rules of procedure. Second proposal. Excuse me, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in this situation. I call upon the secretary to interpret the Rules of Procedure in this situation. Here you go, Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u67	Since it is necessary for the final decision of the entity majority, and in this case it is not, it is Article 60. A college as a commission now needs to agree whether this conclusion will pass or not. If he doesn't agree, he's going to reenact. In this case, who's against, with two-thirds of an entity not to be against it. It's a procedure, and it's obvious that if everyone agrees that there's no need to continue to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u68	Clear. Shall we make a statement on the second proposal? The session continues, but now a statement on the second proposal follows. The second proposal was to adopt the text of the law in the proposed form. Excuse me. That'll be when we open up a debate about the law. Mr. Genjac wants an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u69	Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the Bosniak Club, a 10-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u70	Okay, I'm setting a 10-minute break. Continuing at 14 and 20. 18 Behold, we shall begin with the continuation of our session. [[PAUZA]] I'm calling on Mr. Genjac to explain his point of view.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u71	Dear colleagues, for us indeed, is a dilemma of the letter of the Governor of the Central Bank and, of course, respecting the views expressed by the chairman, respecting the Council of Ministers as well as the Council of Ministers as a whole and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, our proposal, which we consider to have opened one possibility for further consultation, has not been accepted, but we believe that the proposal to vote for an emergency procedure, i.e. as a member of the 100th law, it is acceptable for us, with a proposal for a conclusion drawn by representatives from the Club of Delegates from the Serbian People, namely that the Council of Ministers is obliged to prepare within a period of seven days a law amending this law, respecting and harmonising it with the Central Bank Act and, of course, constitutional norms, if necessary and respecting the suggestions set out in the letter of the Governor of the Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u72	I thank Mr. Genjac. Is there anyone else to discuss? There isn't. I suggest that we now make a statement about the proposal, to make it clear that we are considering this draft law in accordance with Article 100 and this conclusion that has already been made. So it's a statement. Who is it that we should consider this proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration in accordance with Article 100. Who's in? - Ten for who's against it? - Two abstentions? – 2 I konstatirati that the vote is 10 – 2 abstentions and 2 against. We have adopted this conclusion, and we are considering this law in accordance with Article 100. There are most of our rules of procedure and this conclusion adopted. We are considering this bill in accordance with Article 100. We will now declare the text, i.e. the proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. So, we are now discussing the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers, ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u73	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, as you have seen from the vote, I have supported the proposal to postpone this debate today until the Constitutional and Legal Commission has declared, but as most have voted differently, then I will respect that fact and then I will engage in the discussion on this law. I believe that this law is extremely important and, for this reason, it is natural that it has also initiated different views on certain matters, not only among us MPs, but obviously among some of the representatives of some institutions concerned, or whose functioning is also concerned by this law. 19 In this sense, I think it is very important that BiH gets this law as soon as possible, because this law first allows BiH to have a Council of Ministers in place, which is very similar, I apologize for this term, but it is very much like a government, a common government in democratic countries. Probably a few responsibilities this council of ministers will not have, these would be the actual competences of one government, the central government of an expensive one. For this reason, I view this law as allowing for further development of BiH and strengthening the central institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, better coordination of a series of BiH-level activities and clearer representation of BiH towards the outside. These are certainly very important positive facts and should be pointed out. Unfortunately, as the law has been prepared in one, indeed, tense atmosphere within a very short period of time. The Council of Ministers' session lasted a long time and how very soon afterwards the House of Representatives gave its statement on this law, I dare say, that the Council of Ministers missed the opportunity and the obligation to present this law as a whole to the public and to explain to the public exactly what this law brings to the state of BiH and thus to all its citizens and peoples. I believe that, regardless of what the law is likely to be passed and whatever changes are made afterwards, at least those concerned by this letter of the Governor of the Central Bank, I believe it is also necessary that the Council of Ministers, despite the adoption of the law, cannot be appalled by the obligation to present the contents of this law clearly and qualitatively to the public. In this respect, in part of the media and in part of the public, there have also been different assessments of this law, without and before this letter from the Central Bank of BiH, related to certain BiH institutions, which have so far been operational and whose work according to the provisions of this law should cease after the law has been passed. In that sense, we had the opportunity to hear the reaction of the people employed in these institutions, the reaction of the union representatives and a number of the public. Their reactions are both justifiable and reasonable and understandable. They are understandable at least because it is evident that a series of activities and a series of functions of these institutions are common and necessary for a normally organised state and thus for BiH. On the other hand, the public has not been presented in what way could the institutions possibly replace, replace or resolve the issue of functions so far carried out by those institutions. For that reason, I am convinced that today we will have a chance to talk about this. And if I take another chance to express my complete dissent with the fact that we do not have representatives of the Council of Ministers in this part of the debate. I'll be very clear. I will next time, and I have the right to ask that we do not put any part of the agenda in the debate of this house, unless the promoter is present, and this time it is the Council of Ministers. Such an important item of the agenda, and if the representatives of the Council of Ministers were not present here, I can't understand it. So, let me go back. It is that the issue of the functioning of these institutions has been raised. I'll just take a minute. I still advocate the view that we should not propose or accept solutions that would be unconstitutional in this house. Since I do not consider myself a legal expert, in particular the constitutional expert, I cannot state my position on the letter of the Governor of the Central Bank whether the solutions offered in this law and against the constitutional. He argues that they are against the law, therefore against, the central bank law, but that they are also against constitutional law. How I can't make it clear that we shouldn't have discussed this this way. Most of them decided otherwise, and I accept that I'm taking part in a further debate. 20 I will feel very bad if tomorrow we change this part of the law at the request of the Central Bank or someone else, and we already knew today that we should do it. So I don't think that's the way, and that's how we should put pressure on each other for something that's common and general interest. And in this regard, I would no longer spend time on the issue of a letter from the Central Bank Governor whose activities and its contribution to the stabilisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, economic recovery and international trust with Bosnia and Herzegovina in economic matters I highly appreciate. When it comes to this second, the issue of the functioning of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in segments that have so far been served with 6 institutions that are listed in this law that will cease their work and for whose further activities of the Council of Ministers in this law have been obliged to take the obligation to resolve the issues of employees, property issues, document issues and function issues, I have wanted to take advantage of the opportunity here and I will use my right to ask the Council of Ministers or several questions of the Council of Ministers, and there is no doubt that these institutions will have any doubts that certain functions that have been performed by these institutions in these six names of the numbered institutions in this law, whose work will cease after the adoption of this law, there is no doubt that these institutions have been cut off functions which are of interest to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina and against you. I am therefore interested in how does the Council of Ministers intend to ensure the coordination of these activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory after the end of the work of these institutions, and how does the Council of Ministers intend to ensure the representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in areas concerning these activities to the outside? In particular, health, meteorology, science, scientific research, etc. So as a state, we have signed certain international conventions and created international legal obligations to co-operate in these areas with international institutions in Europe and the world and there is no doubt that we will have to implement these obligations. I know that the Council of Ministers is aware of these facts and I had an interest and a desire to hear here today before any of my statements on this law how does the Council of Ministers want to handle it? Since I'm obviously not going to have that opportunity and pleasure here today, I'm sure we'll discuss that later. For this reason, I will take the opportunity to say the following – if we make a statement on the text of the law, and it seems already agreed, given that we have chosen to work on Article 100 on the text of the law as proposed here, so without amendments, I propose to all of you, and I am convinced that you will support me in this decision and one conclusion which would therefore be made, I will now read it as one proposal that can be developed and I will be glad to participate in this together which could be voted about this: - The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in charge of ensuring the coordination of the functions of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from the 28th of this law in Bosnia and Herzegovina territory and the implementation of international obligations of representation and co-operation of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards European institutions and other institutions in the world. Realising this conclusion, the Council of Ministers will make sure that the transition of functions and transformation of institutions is in line with the principles of efficiency, economics and international compatibility. It undertakes, the obligations of Articles 29 and 30, so on employees, before 21, of employees and the rest must be carried out in an appropriate manner. The House of the Federation shall appoint a 3-member committee to oversee the process of realization. I did not mention these three members here on purpose, so we can agree on them, which will oversee the process of realization of these conclusions, and within 90 days the Council of Ministers will submit a full report to the House on how this conclusion is implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u74	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u75	I apologize as many times as I take my word today, but that's how it went down. I have also suggested this conclusion in some way with Mr Genjac who does not fully agree and we will vote for this and I do not think there is any reason to discuss this much today because we cannot change anything because it is an article 100 that says we cannot have any amendments. But I would suggest to the Council of Ministers that when these amendments to the Central Bank Act were made to us, so if there is a possibility that Article 6 of this law should be brought into line with Article 17. A little bit of an exaggeration of that article with that other one, and some other stuff. As far as the headquarters of the administrative organizations themselves is concerned, I think the headquarters of the ministry itself has not been told anywhere where the seat is located. It was probably meant to be Sarajevo. I don't think these administrative organisations have to be in Sarajevo, that they can be distributed throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Depends on what they do. And I'd still have some, but I'm telling you, since it's article 100, it's not worth telling us all about now. I can only suggest, and I don't agree with Mr. Čengić, why there are no of these from the Council of Ministers to suggest so that they can prepare us at the next session and these answers that we ask for at least answers to those answers, if not verbally, then at least in writing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u76	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u77	I forgot. I'm sorry, Mr. Čengić, but I'm sorry. However, this is not a government, because the law says it is the Council of Ministers, and when it is a government, then we will discuss the government.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u78	Thank you. Is there anyone else to discuss? If not, we have here a concrete suggestion of a conclusion. I think it would be good, it's a little longer so I haven't been able to catch everything, of course, that maybe this conclusion is multiplying and that it's dividing here on the benches. How long does it take? Is there any technical possibility of that happening for the next. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u79	Wait a minute. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Just before that, I'd ask, if we're going with this conclusion, I suggested three members on purpose so that we have one man from each club who would be on that committee to monitor further activities. If we can get one of those suggestions...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u80	Wait a minute. Here you go, Jadranko. Here's a question for professional services, are we able? How much time do you need for this? Here's to this saying it takes 10 minutes. I'm making a break, I'm sorry. Here's your Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u81	I think we should vote on the law first, and then we should vote on the conclusion that Genjac and I have proposed, and then only the third one is yours. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u82	Okay. You got it. No, no, your conclusion is already going. Your conclusion is already voted and it is already an integral part because we said when we voted on the procedure that it was already with the conclusion of yours and Mr. Genjac. It's already adopted. Yes, it is. Now all we have is the law and the new conclusion. Yes, it is. That's right. Okay. Here's a proposal for us to now come to terms with the text of the law, and to either wait for the conclusion, or to make a statement. Let's wait 10 minutes for everything. It's better. Here, if that's okay with you, then I'll determine a 10-minute break. This time it's only 10 minutes real. I think it's just a matter of technique to multiply and divide it. We will continue our work again. The professional services typed this conclusion. You got him on the bench. If there's anything on the text of this conclusion, please come in. So we can end the overall debate means the law here is also a proposal for this conclusion. __________ Mr. Chairman, I forgot just to say that the text goes with the full name [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] That is right, here is the proposer of this conclusion left out already in the first sentence – it is the Council of Ministers of BiH's duty to, when implementing this law, say this 23 law, meaning the Law on Ministrys and Others, yes, full name and last name, means without 'this law', means the Law on Ministrys and other bodies, the bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. And I don't know, I'm going to have one of these little questions – Mr. Čengić, this third sentence, the third paragraph here, the obligations of Article 28, 29, 30, 31, should be carried out properly. I don't know how much it's necessary to put this on, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u84	Here's what it is. I agree with you. It looks so dry and maybe superfluous. But with the fact that there have been a lot of stories in the media that these institutions will stop working, and they have employees, so let them say they will be on the road, some again want to be directors like they were, etc. So we have both variations. What's important is we say that we're interested in these people getting jobs, not going on the road, and at the same time that I can't ask them six to be some kind of directors there, because they probably can't be directors anymore, there's going to be something else. It means in an appropriate manner, in terms of their professional arrangements, while at the same time the Council of Ministers undertakes to find them a job not to go on the road. So we don't have a request here tomorrow to talk to union representatives about these people. That's what I meant in a proper way, and the members are, these members are running exactly the things that are numbered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u85	I thank Mr. Čengić for these clarifications. Here, if there's no one left to discuss, I suggest we approach the statement of the law, the text of the law is. I am now voting on the draft law on the ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration under Article 100. Who's up for this text of the law? - 14 for who's against it? - 1 v. Pardon 13 for, 2 against, no abstentions. I thank and declare that the law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration has been passed. I thank you all. This was the last point today, and now we're going to move on to a statement on the text of the conclusion. There's no argument. I am giving the statement to this conclusion by Mr. Čengić. Who's to this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u86	I'm just asking if I could have an intervention, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u87	Here you go, Mr. Pamuk. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u88	I apologize for fixing right here in the conclusion that Hasan tried to fix this one, which drew Mr. Čengić's attention. In this third paragraph, the Government undertakes to carry out the obligations set out in Articles 28, 29, 30 and 31 in an appropriate manner. So the government is bound, or not by the government, by the Council of Ministers, by a pardon. The Council of Ministers undertakes to carry out these obligations by these members in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u89	Okay, this is more of a little clarification and a style supplement, it doesn't matter. Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u90	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I have an objection here to this last paragraph that reads - The House of Peoples is in charge of the College of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u91	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u92	I appreciate this attitude of an esteemed colleague, but I'm going to be very open, so you've now drawn me by the tongue that the Council of Ministers is making me even more roses. So let's say in one normal function it is absolutely unnecessary to say one such thing, because if Parliament concludes something and has the authority to conclude and commit it to an institution that it can commit then there is nothing more to be added. I fully agree with you here. But this is about the following, today as we discuss this law and this moment there is no one outside the Council of Ministers. So let's just get out of it, figure out that fact, and draw the conclusion that we're still doing this job a little bit more than 90 days ago. So that's why, and normally I hope that in the future we won't have to work this way, but that indeed the Council of Ministers and other institutions will carry out what we agree. So that's the only reason I understand you completely, but I'd like to ask if we can leave it simply this time because of this fact that they're not there.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u93	Mr. Radović. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u94	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I understand Mr. Čengić's concern that this problem should be addressed carefully, but I also cannot agree with him that we do not believe and doubt in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers. And let's not bring them down in advance. What has been numbered, therefore, is out of concern, with the best intention of helping these 25 institutions that will come into transformation so on the impact of transformation and by law is the decadently this fearsome and embedded and said that the Council of Ministers must make a proposal for measures within 90 days. Let's wait for that motion of measures and then criticize them and say it's not good is it good. But I'm afraid that somehow we've already amnested their mistakes and said if there's anything worse I can do, and already there's this control function of the College of the House of Peoples. I think we're giving ourselves a task that doesn't belong to us in advance and that we've begun to doubt in advance the correctness and proper work of both the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-13-0.u95	Thank you. Okay. I would ___________: [[joint discussion from the site]] Okay. Here, I thank everyone who participated. Otherwise there should be a bar for a pay phone, but it can be done well. So in the third paragraph we threw out the first sentence, the first row and sentence is also, fourth, sorry, and the third paragraph we added in the way we said. Here I think this conclusion is complete now, that it's fixed in this technical, something and substance sense and part. If there are no further objections and suggestions, I suggest we make a statement on this conclusion. Who's to this conclusion? Who's in? - 15 for the opposition and the abstentions. I thank you all. I'm realizing that we've adopted this conclusion, too. That way, he, he went in already when we were determining the procedure. Yes, it is. Thank you, everyone. This today and our work, our session is closed. We're planning a third session for the end of this month. Of course, webiti be informed in time. The Commission will also hope to start working so that we will have a report from the Commission on work etc. I thank you all. The session was completed at 3:45 p.m.
