ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u1	Gentlemen, honored delegates, your Excellency, esteemed guests, Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are scheduled to hold the first session, and in this case the constitutional session of the House of Peoples, until the chairman is elected, is chaired by the oldest elected delegate, as the interim chairman. I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all the newly elected delegates and to wish for successful work and to invite Mr Mustafa Pamuk to take over as temporary chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u2	I must admit it's not a compliment to be the oldest, but I'm glad to chair this assembly. I congratulate all elected delegates on the election and I expect that in this period, which is ahead of us, we will work with commitment and quality. Here I am to open a constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with Article 2(4). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we are obliged to read, or a list of delegates in the House of Peoples, and, behold, I am doing so at this time. From the Order of Bošnjak 1. Mustafa Pamuk 2.. Hilmo Neimarlija 3.. Hasan Čengić 4.. Osman Brka 5.. Halid Genjac From the Order of the Croatian People 1.. Velimir Jukić 2.. Anto Spajić 3.. Ilija Filipović 4.. Branko Zrno 5.. Tomislav Limov According to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska's decision to elect delegates from the RS to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the following 2. 1. Zoran Spasojević 2.. Boško Šiljegović 3.. Nada Radović 4.. Goran Milojević 5. Vinko Radovanović dakle, here's how familiar I am and how I've been told by the technical services of the House of Peoples that all the delegates are present, that means five from every nation and 15 delegates are in total. In accordance with Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, delegates take office together by giving a solemn statement. I ask the delegates to sign the solemn statement and, behold, I would like to read the solemn statement, and you will all follow me, so we will finish that part of the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u3	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Thank you. I congratulate you on our oath, and we are officially all representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to ask you to sign all these... Now would be the time to move on to the agenda of this session. It is proposed that 1. Founding clubs of the 2nd People's Clubs. I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Mr. Genjac. You're going to have to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u4	Dear fellow MPs - delegates, respected member of the Bureau, respected deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, esteemed colleagues, members of the College of the previous Assembly, representatives of the media, distinguished guests, I welcome you all and suggest we add one item of the agenda, which would be called the selection of members of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Explanation. In front of the House of Peoples, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a comprehensive job. In all this, the role of the commission is inevitable and the House of Peoples cannot begin its most significant activities without commissions. Of course, there are activists on the adoption of laws, activities on the international agenda, etc. 3 For this reason, and given the delay in establishing this home, I suggest that the third item of the agenda be the appointment of the House of Nations committee, which, of course, on a break, which is scheduled for the establishment of clubs, would be the necessary consultations and there are all possible conditions to ensure that this job is completed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u5	We heard Mr. Genjac's suggestion. I would put this proposal to a vote, not to elaborate and not to discuss it. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Unanimity. Thank you. This is what we'll do, hopefully, in the future. Thank you very much. So, we've adopted the agenda. I, on this occasion, have to apologize, I have to make one, start my lapus. I should've done it earlier in the beginning. It's not bad for me to do that now either. There are colleagues from the former House of Peoples here. I thank the people of all order for what they did in the House of Peoples, thank you for running this home of the people, and I think they did it very well. We hope that, in a period that is ahead of us, we will also do it in a quality way. Thank you for everything you've done for the BiH Parliament, for the BiH state and for the people of BiH. Thank you. So, let's approach the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption, i.e., is the establishment of clubs of the people I think we should take a 15-minute break there, so we are foreseen so that the clubs should propose their club presidents and that we should be able to approach this business that is ahead of us, that we may choose the chairman and chairman of the National Assembly. I'm taking a 15-minute break. ...a little more. [[PAUZA]] Today, I must inform you, gentlemen, it's Friday, today it's juma and we should hurry for the people who are going to go to the jujum to finish it on time. So, we were able to establish clubs of the people and as far as I was informed, namely, I was informed by the clubs that the clubs chose the next MPs for the presidents and vice presidents of the clubs. The Bosniak People's Club has been elected president of Mr. Halid Genjac's club, and Dr. Hilmo Neimarlija is the vice president of the club. From the Croatian people, the Croatian People's Club has been elected president Ante Spajić and Vice President Branko Zrn. The Serbian people's club as club president was chosen by Mr. Boško Šiljegović, and Vinko Radovanović was elected as his deputy. 4 I think I said this well. Is that so? Thank you very much. Ad.2. The election of the chairman and vice-chairman of the dom ja would ask, since the club presidents of each of their people propose the chairman, or chairman of the House of Peoples, to the order in which they will be appointed chairman and chaired by their candidates. Namely, the first chairman of the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the candidate of the Croatian people, the second chairman, i.e. the first chairman of the Bosniak people and the second chairman of the Serb people. The order and the way will be changed by the chairman and chair. I ask the president of the Croatian People's Club to propose a candidate for the presidency of the Croatian People's House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u6	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you present. Congratulations on your choice, and I wish you good luck in your work. In front of the Croatian club as chairman, Mr Velimir Jukić is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u7	Thank you. Here, we heard a proposal in front of the Croatian People's Club. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in? Unanimously, I'm sorry, we have one against the order of the Croatian people. I urge the president of the Bosniak People's Club, Dr Halid Genjac, to submit a candidate from the Bosniak people's order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u8	Dear colleagues, and I, of course, baptize the opportunity to congratulate the presidents of the clubs and wish successful co-operation, of course, congratulating all my fellow delegates with a sworn oath. I am using, of course, the opportunity to accept one failure, as members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman arrived in the meantime, I welcome them, I hope on behalf of the entire House, and the Club of the Bosniak People's Delegates in the House of Nations is, at its first session, in accordance with Articles 7(1) and 2. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House of the Bosniak people for the duty of first deputy chairman of the Parliament Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament, proposed delegate Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u9	Thank you very much. We heard a proposal from the Bosniak candidate, or a proposal from the Bosniak Club. 5 Who's in? Anybody got any abstentions? Do you mind? - One against. Thank you very much. I ask the president of the Club of Delegates from the Serbian people to propose his candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Club of Delegates of the Serb People, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the elected club presidents and their deputies on behalf of the Serbian delegates' Club. Also, I am taking the opportunity to give sincere congratulations to the co-chair and chairman of the Croatian and Bosniak people, and for the member of the College and co-chair of the Serbian people, the Serbian People's Delegations Club proposes Mr Goran Milojević. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u11	Here's a proposal for Mr. Milojević. Who's for this proposal please lift the green card? Who's against it? - 1 Thank you very much. So, we chose the College. I am congratulating my name to the chosen, and I wish them good luck. I just want to point out, they asked me from the Technical Service to tell you that these charts, these papers you got in this folder, they need to be completed, because they need to be delivered to the Technical Service, so the Technical Service can carry out its tasks further. It should be done as soon as possible. I am now calling on the president, or elected candidates to take their seats, because we will have another item on the agenda. It is the choice of working bodies in Parliament at the House of Peoples. Ad.3. I ask the Lord to come.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your choice, given your trust. I expect that in our future work we will be successful, that we will be constructive, that we will contribute to strengthening the equality of the people in BiH, that we will blush to build a better future for this country and be better for everyone. At first, I thank you once again and I urge all of us together to be responsible for our, here, important duty and the role of MPs in this House. 6 I would continue to conduct this session, bearing in mind what was said before to hurry a little bit over the time in which we were, therefore, a few, half an hour before noon. We have one more piece of work to do, and that's a selection of members of the House of Peoples committees. I ask the representatives of the clubs to make proposals for the members of the committee, making sure that each commission has six members, members 23.2. – 2+2+2, and two-thirds of the Federation members and one-third from Republika Srpska, Article 21(1). I would like to point out that the House only elects members of the committee, and the commission will, in accordance with Article 28(2), elect the chairpersons of the commission, as well as the first and second Vice-Presidents of the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There you go, club presidents. Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u13	The Bošnjak Club held a session and set up a proposal for members of the People's House of the Bosniak People's Committee, so it is proposed that members be: 1. Mustafa Pamuk 2. Osman brkati That members of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy are: 1. Hasan Čengić 2.. Osman Brka. Members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission shall be: 1. Hilmo Neimarlija 3. Halid Genjac, of course, I note that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, after the election of the members of the commission, they establish their session to elect the chairman and vice president, following talks between clubs who will be in which commission chaired by which people. So, for today's need, we have proposed committee members from the Bosniak people's order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u14	I call on Mr. Ante Spajić, president of the Croatian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u15	In front of the Croatian Club for the Constitutional First Commission, Mr: 1. Karlo Filipović 2. Tomislav Limov 7 Commission for the Foreign and Trade Commission: 1. Velimir Jukić 2. Anto Spajić Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs, Mr: 1. Branko Zrno 2.. I apologize to Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u16	I thank Mr. Spajić. Mr. Spajić made a mistake on behalf of Mr. Filipović. So, Ilija Filipović, not Karlo Filipović. Thank you. I call on Mr. Boško Šiljegović, president of the Serbian Club to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u17	Mr. Chairman, the club of the delegates of the people in the Constitutional and First Commission is proposing Mr. 1. Goran Milojević 2.. Boško Šiljegović at the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Mr 1. Vink Radovanović 2.. nadeti Radović at the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of Mr 1. Nada Radović 2.. Zoran Spasojević Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-31-0.u18	Thank you. No Niko's answering for a hearing. I suggest we make a statement on the proposals put forward. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? No abstentions. I understand that we have unanimously chosen the committees of the House of Peoples. Since the agenda is exhausted, I would just like to assign us professional services here to agree on a call for the first session of these committees, because the presidents have not been elected and make it an obligation, to make an appointment immediately. Here, we'll schedule a session of all committees immediately, make a deal. The secretary suggests that we three members of the College should schedule one commission, be the Constitutional and Legal Committee in the office of the Croatian member of the president, be the 8th Foreign Trade Commission in the office of the Bosniak Presidency and the Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs in the room of the Serbian President's Club. We've arranged for the president of the clubs in the Bosniak member's cabinet. The session was completed at 11:40 p.m.
