ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7582	Dear guests, I am opening the 10th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. I find that today's session is attended by 37 MPs. Two MPs from HRZ, Mr Zorić and Andrić, are due to join at any moment. They're here in the Parliament building. Today from the session are absent Mr Jahić Elmir, who announced his absence justly, then Mr Hasan Muratović, who is on the official road on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Nijaz Duraković, who is also on the official road justifiably absent, Mr Žigić Izet, so I explained yesterday that he can no longer formally be an MP. We today need to make appropriate acts that will allow his replacement to be made before the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Mr Abdulah Nakaš, we expect him to announce himself at any moment and join us in the work of this session. So we now have and Mr. Nijaz Durković should also join. And I said he was gone, and then you didn't follow me. So at this point in the O.R., we have 35 MPs, we expect every moment two to join Dr. You poop like the third thing behind them, so we have conditions for full work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to this session today, you have received a proposal for the agenda. I only owe a few notes. In fact, when preparing the draft agenda, there was a printing error under point 8, this is not about the Law on Transfers of Regulators and Operators of the Electricity System, but about the Proposal for a Law amending that law and you got it today in this revised agenda, so please consider this fact as a technical error. Now that's the point of the 9th agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have held a session of the College in the expanded composition in preparation and, as you have seen this time, we have had at the College in an extended composition of a specific supplement of the earlier proposed agenda, as we are under certain circumstances. Namely, it is about including in the agenda the ratification of the 6 international agreements you received in the meantime, and some of them are of an urgent nature. All of them are of great benefit to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would specifically point out one of these agreements that will allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to renovate this skyscraper building of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and relieve and actually allow much better conditions for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The next amendment is that instead of the proposed 14th item of the agenda as item 6 today, we have included the request of our members of the College as MPs to adopt the Law amending the Law on Citizenship by an urgent procedure under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure. You have seen, in the light of this request, that it is a law declared by the High Representative. At our 5th session on December 23rd, we adopted an amendment to the Law on Citizenship. It's about that five-to-fifth shift. However, since the House of Peoples was not established and the law by our adoption could not enter into force, the High Representative declared the law on December 31st and on the same day came into force. To become the law of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is necessary for both homes to adopt it in a text declared by the High Representative. The home of the people has already done so at a meeting since February 13th. There is no fundamental difference between the text declared by the High Representative and the text we have unanimously decided here. The essence therefore remains the same. It's a five-to-fifth-year deadline. It is a matter of certain legal technical differences which I, as chairman, are not authorized to correct myself without this Parliament so that the law can be published and therefore this point is on the agenda today. There is also a certain change in point 15 when it comes to determining the termination of the term of office of Mr Izet Žigić. Namely, the Party for BiH MPs' Club proposed that a member of the Administrative Commission be elected immediately, as Izet Žigić was the chairman of the commission so that the Commission could work without waiting for the Election Commission to assign a new, new MP, because the proposal of the Election Commission, or a proposal from the Party for BiH, to be a member of the Administrative Commission to be a person who is already an MP with a certified mandate in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, you have therefore received an updated draft agenda. Since we've adopted a agenda like this, we've actually agreed on an extended college, I don't know if there's any need to discuss it, but in any case, I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Mr. Lagumdžija answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7583	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I assume this is a misunderstanding on the agenda. Yesterday we had a session in which the agenda was declared, and that is why I should at least draw attention to what the Council of Ministers should do at today's meeting of the House of Representatives should have information about what is known in public under the “Buldozer Commission” or how some say that it does not run out of nuts, without baklava. No baklava nuts for baklava, something like that. I don't know. But there are different names. Anyway, we don't have an official name yet, and I was told yesterday that today, there might have been a misunderstanding on the agenda, at least 3 information, so if that misunderstanding were removed, I wouldn't explain it. If this isn't a misunderstanding, I'd be in accordance with Article 50. The Rules of Procedure had an intervention and I prefer point 2. This is just connecting to point one. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7584	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Nikola Špirić answered for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7585	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I have a proposal to supplement the agenda and one initiative, by saying that I accept this agenda, which has defined the College with my regret that at the 3rd point, they have failed to reach agreement on the Law on equality and gender equality in relation to sex in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's a law adopted in the House of Peoples. There's no need to outwit the law. I thought it was better if we adopted it, so we started a change initiative if anyone did, than to argue about that law, because I'm afraid we're going to send an ugly message that way. So I regret that there was no willingness to do so and if there is any possibility maybe it would be good for us to adopt this law and, in that sense, I am willing to make a contribution. Secondly, I'll talk about the initiative. SNSD MPs' club with the support of SP representatives Mr Gligorić and SRS representatives of MP Blagojević to this home in accordance with Article 116. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives submits an initiative to vote for mistrust with the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is a business opportunity with the following explanation – the reason for this request is immediately on the public side of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the CIPS project. In fact, the Council of Ministers made a public commitment that the price of personal documents of 10 KM instead of 14.5 and that citizens charged a price of 14.5 would be compensated in places where that money was taken from them. Since the prices of personal documents have not been returned to 10 KM so far, and the citizens have been roughly deceived, this has caused invaluable damage in the further construction of BiH institutions. I expect support from other MPs in the process of not voting. This request is in accordance with Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure addressed to the Chair of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is required in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to lead the follow-up to this very Rules of Procedure. This is where the MPs are signed. I'm handing this over to the chairman so he can proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is an official initiative. And my application is to supplement the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that in recent times, and yesterday we have had a point of order -- a security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Iraqi crisis is getting worse and I would like to see Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, if this parliament had its own position, which would result from those who are leading foreign policy, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency. So what our position is about, that is, the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Representative Council against the Iraqi crisis. Are we under any obligation and is our participation in a major anti-terrorism alliance binding on the Iraqi crisis? It seems to me that this country should not allow 4 problems to be a political problem that then state authorities must have a clear view of everything at a time when the dictatorial regime of Sadam Husein tells us that it is ready to win. It can't not upset both Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I think it's time and I suggest that this point be a 17th point, and that the Presidency and the MIP prepare to refer to this home so that we can have the position of state institutions versus this problem. Thank you very much. So I'm asking that we make a statement about this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7586	Okay. Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? If no one's answering my word, I'm closing the agenda debate, and now we're moving on to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7587	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7588	Mr. Lagumdžija, I would first of all ask you that, since I try not to interrupt any speaker unless it goes beyond the scope of the subject and if it oversteps the usual time to discuss that and when I'm speaking from this place, I don't get the word. I've heard very well what you suggested and please be patient, listen to what I'm about to say and then you'll have the right to react afterwards. And this is not just a request to you, but a request to all MPs. So, I am concluding the debate on the agenda and we are now going to clarify, i.e. the explanation and possible vote on Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Špirić's proposals we heard about the agenda. Mr Lagumdžija sought information on the activities of the “Buldozer Commission”, asked the Council of Ministers to be delivered to the Council of Ministers by the “Buldozer Commission” or OHR on measures to be taken by us at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and also at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to remove obstacles to the rapid development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic development. In this context, I have an obligation and I was certainly going to do so to inform this home that in 26.2.2003, a meeting was held by OHR representatives with the chairman of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly on the subject – the procedure and the debate on the "Buldozer Commission" initiatives, which will also refer to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This opportunity was made in the framework of the authority of the chairmanship of both Houses of Parliament one orientation plan made by the two secretaries of the two homes and the Secretary of the Joint Services and which was delivered to the Office of the High Representative in which it is said in the shortest possible – we have been informed that the Council of Ministers will hold a meeting with the entity governments and the "Buldozer Commission" and at that meeting the Council of Ministers will be informed in detail of what the contents of the document are. That's how we were informed. Whether the Council of Ministers has received that document by now or not, I don't know. We then said that the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH will actively participate in this activity and that it is necessary to hold one preparatory meeting, so immediately after the meeting organised by the Council of Ministers, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and both homes hold a meeting with the "Buldožer Commission" before these initiatives and come into parliamentary procedure in order for MPs to get acquainted with the content of these measures. Especially those relating to the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The meeting with the "Buldozer Commission" in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is scheduled for members of the colleges of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the presidents of the MPs' clubs in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, members of the constitutional and legal committees of both homes, members of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs of this House, members of the Commission for Finance and the budget of this House and members of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy and the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House. The meeting will take place immediately 2 or 3 days at most after the Council of Ministers holds this meeting with entity governments and the Government of the Brcko District, which will be attended by members of the “Buldozer Commission” on which the members of the Commission will meet in detail the Council of Ministers on the measures proposed. So that's my answer, Mr. Lagumdžija, to your question, and that's what I officially know as chairman of this house. I have so far not received any material, nor has it been received in the Parliamentary Assembly. If I had got it, he would have been forwarded to you and delivered to you. I don't know if the Council of Ministers has received any material. If this answer pleases you, then we can move on and deal with this plan, if you are not satisfied with my answer, you can insist that I put your proposal to the vote as a part of the agenda. But I have to say that we're not prepared today, because we don't have any material for that part of the agenda. That's my explanation. Here you go. Mr. Lagumdžija has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7589	Mr. Chairman, I thank you for that, the fact that you gave me an explanation. Unfortunately, however, I'm afraid the confusion is getting even bigger now. I understand from your explanation that the Council of Ministers hasn't gotten that yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7590	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7591	No, I don't even think it matters because, unfortunately, there is no Council of Ministers and relevant Council of Ministers dealing with this problem here, unfortunately. There are other men from the Council of Ministers who are conditionally not resor. 6 I am therefore obliged to explain here what I was talking about in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I would ask you to just give me a few minutes. In fact, we were able to see yesterday, and today I am afraid that this is spreading confusion, that Parliament can become a narrow throat for the implementation of the document from the “Buldozer Commission”. For those who do not know 50 reforms, another 38 days should be carried out. In front of this parliament, as far as I am aware that of the 64 regulations to be amended, 13 regulations should be changed at the state level, 28 in the Federation, 18 in Republika Srpska and 5 in Brcko at the stage in which I was informed. Unfortunately not as an MP. There are these points that are completely controversial, such as It is proposed to collect sales taxes and at the place of the manufacturer, which is in direct contrast to what we signed with the IMF. I don't argue whether it's good or bad, I'm just saying there's a lot of things that can be controversial. I was also able to see today that one minister has a completely conflicting opinion with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because we were able to see from the means of information, in addition to Parliament's narrow throat that the minister in charge says that he thinks that the deadline should only start activities. So, Mr. Chairman, there is a very large matter to be done, and I would therefore ask you, given how we had the principle of working in Parliament, that it would be good to agree, here if there is no readiness in order, although I think it would be good to inform us that in the next, that we, as Parliament, are bound to have three meetings of the Parlment in the next 38 days. I said minimum three. I would like Azra to have a permanent session of Parliament until this is over. We're ready. I'm sorry, then. So first we have a debate about the whole document, about what it's all about. This meeting, which you have cited, is a metric, however, it is sort of replacing this parliament, and there is no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7592	Okay, Mr. Lagumdžija, I understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7593	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7594	Thank you very much for, it's been three minutes. It's been three minutes, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here, thank you very much. Allow
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7595	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to formulate a proposal. This is a three-minute explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7596	Come on, tell me what the proposal is. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7597	So my proposal today is to inform the Council of Ministers about this. Proposal number one. Proposal number two to make a statement and we suggest that we do not launch point 47, Article 47(3). Rules of Procedure, because there's no need for people here to prove that we're bigger reformers. Let us agree today that we have meetings of Parliament, which, independently of today's session, will be dedicated only to this. I really want you, Mr. Chairman, as well as the BH of the public, to make it clear that we are ready to go on a reform course, especially when economic reforms are at stake, and I fear that the way the Council of Ministers has acted on this, that it leads us to the opportunity to question such a thing by whoever holds the parliamentary majority here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7598	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, please, so Mr. Lagumdžija, you would therefore have to respect the fact that this House has its own leadership chosen to work in the Rules of Procedure and to take care of all possible deadlines that this Parliament should respect. And only when, as an MP, you notice that the chairman of the House doesn't do it, then of course you would have the right to object. In advance of expressing suspicion, I don't think the treasure is correct. So that's one thing. It's another thing. So I introduced you to what the two chairmans did and what our plan was. We are determined to respect all the deadlines this Parliament needs to respect, and that is why you do not need to worry. Now, despite today, we are not ready to discuss the subject. The Council of Ministers has not delivered any material. I don't know if the Council of Ministers got the material, too. And I know that Parliament has not received it and that is why I personally will not be able to support your proposal but I will stick to what has been done as a plan for this Parliament in its behaviour and in relation to this issue. But, no matter what, I will put your proposal to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. No more need, we're putting Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal to vote. Look, we can today, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I'll, please, just a little bit, I'll let you speak, but I don't think there's any need to trouble yourself with anything that isn't at all a problem and to determine the agendas of our sessions for a few hours at a time. Just because someone wants a certain thing to be troubled that's not at all a problem and that's not at all controversial. I explained it, but you are Parliament, of course, like I am here, and if you insist, I will allow you to speak. Mr. Ćeman first applied after that, Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, gentlemen. Of course you got it. Here you go. And Novaković. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7599	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, of course, Mr. Lagumdžija doesn't need a lawyer, and I didn't come out to advocate for him. But because of what he said and hastened perhaps a few of us, I also intended to point out this question, but not in the same way as Mr. Lagumdžija, but in the following way. For now, we, most of us, although someone has more information on this or those channels about the “Buldozer Commission” work, are informed from the media. Since it is quite clear that this Parliament and other parliaments will have a significant part of the work under this material within legislative activity, my court would be at this stage and without debate at the Council of Ministers' proposal that we, as MPs, get this material for now at this stage to say so as to prepare ourselves in good time for what is coming to us. Because in the end, given that I have not seen this material, it is logical that, on the basis of the thesis which is as possible solutions there, it is likely that those represented will have to be made into concrete drafts of the law, and we will then be able to define it in full capacity as a legislative body. So I came out just to say that as much as today and before the Council of Ministers is determined on this issue at all as one project should simply come to us MPs to be informed, not from the newspapers, but in fact in a direct way and be prepared in time for the ideas offered there, probably most of them quite acceptable. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7600	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Belkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7601	Here's what I'm going to try to suggest for us is how we can get out of this situation. It concerns, of course, Mr Špirić's initiative and Mr Lagumdžija's initiative. I think the Council of Ministers, i.e. that we should give it a chance the following way, and then possibly discuss some initiatives, etc. Do we urgently request that he deliver his work programme to us, so to operate on that exposé Mr. Terzić brought out here? Clearly, then, we know what the Council of Ministers expects of this assembly. We've done some work, I guess it's under construction and he'll come here, but it would be logical to get a program, an operational programme of the Council of Ministers' work, in which I hope it will be a plan to operate on the things involved in the commitments from this commission that Zlatko was talking about. The second thing when it comes to the CIPS, so this composition of the Council of Ministers received the project, i.e. the continuity of the project, which was well done. We can't ask this Council of Ministers to bear or not bear any responsibility for something we don't know whether it's true or not. So let us get complete information from the CIPS project from the Council of Ministers. So two things I suggest. Let us ask the Council of Ministers for a work programme from which we will see how we intend to implement our obligations together with this 9 Representative House concerning certain projects and to obtain complete information about the CIPS. I can't support or support the initiative, and I can't hear the other side, and I don't know what it's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7602	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7603	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, you see, I am a man who does not like to raise certain tensions at all. The bottom line is next. He appeared in the newspaper "Buldozer Commission", and was said to be implementing the project in 50 days. A second statement, which has been said that the government will do everything but that it is Parliament's work whether it can do it. I'm just suggesting next. 50 days for this House is worth a day when we get a program of what we need done and done. If we're going to have one, two, three, we're going to be in constant session. It doesn't matter, we're gonna sit down, but we're gonna fill in what's 50 days. Therefore, what I just think would be a good proposal from this session is that the Government is asked to deliver means a programme for bulldozers and that from that moment on, the Paerliamentary Assembly, this one and you as chairman, or the College, has made such activities that within 50 days of the day that we receive this documentation, we have, in fact, to carry out this task. And done, all arranged. So I think that without any disturbance, it is the only time that we can respond to this task, not that 50 days already expires, and we still don't know what it is and it will be in the end that Parliament is guilty of this situation in fact which it isn't. We're just looking for this one coordination and nothing more. I think it's possible to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7604	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. So the debate opens, now Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7605	My fellow MPs, I'd just like to comment on really two suggestions here. Mr Špirić's first proposal for an additional agenda point, which I think is acceptable, but in one variant, given that we don't have a presidency here today, and we don't have a foreign minister, or a chairman of the Council of Ministers, or any information about this issue, which I really consider serious enough to discuss seriously. I would like to suggest that we make a commitment to the institutions that I have stated that for the next session of the House of Representatives, this information should be prepared so that we can discuss this matter seriously. Secondly, I do not understand this initiative to vote non-confidential in view of the price of the CIPS project, whether it refers to a vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers or to the High Representative, so I would ask Mr Špirić to come out and explain once more whether this refers to a vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers or to the High Representative? Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7606	Please. Sit down, Mr. Špirić. May I have your attention, please? Please. Mr. Živković picked up the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7607	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7608	You'll be given the opportunity to say something about the wrong quote. You'll get your word, I won't deny you. I called a man before that. I won't deny you. Please just take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7609	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of preserving the dignity of this high house, I, as an MP, do not accept pressure from anyone, even if he came from some “Buldozer Commission” from the High Representative or from anyone. For that reason, any weather provision that we're bound by someone here, I don't consider polite, but not to say any other word. We can overcome this emerging situation in the following way: - to put this item on the agenda that Mr. Lagumdžija has suggested and to realize that we are not able to discuss it, because we did not get materials from the government and say who is responsible for it. Of course, this high house will express its willingness to adopt these proposals and laws as soon as possible, as soon as possible, when it receives these materials. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7610	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Špirić, please take a moment. Please, you're joining Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal. Okay. Okay. We'll put it to a vote. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7611	Gentlemen Chairman, I really think that the Rules of Procedure should be respected, and if there is anything that is wrong with the quote or replica, it should be allowed by the MP, otherwise it seems immaterial, no matter what it is or who it is. In this case, it's me. It doesn't matter. Thank you very much. Novaković asked for clarification. This is Article 116. The rules of procedure are clear that the Club of Delegates or at least 10 delegates can launch an initiative. After that, the presidency's obligations arise, and the proposal must be put in place after the Council of Ministers has been made clear within 20 days, 30 days, at the latest, to make the House known. So it's a legal initiative. 11 I gave an explanation why. The Council of Ministers, therefore, did not resort to prior advice from the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina warned and said that the price of the ID document is 10 marks, that citizens on the counter where they were stolen, so said the Council of Ministers will be compensated for 3.5 marks and that the responsibility will bear responsibility, 4.5 marks of pardon. What do we have today? I'm not here to get anyone into this High Representative game, we're not choosing the High Representative, we're choosing the Council of Ministers. We appreciate that invaluable damage has been done to both citizens and the public and trust in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers cannot play, so in the morning one statement, in the afternoon the second statement, which is not binding on him, and in this sense I consider this initiative legal and legitimate. And as for this second agenda application, I'm aware of that, I'm asking it to be the last item of the agenda. Hardly for us, it is difficult for this country if the Council of Ministers and the MIP and the Presidency are not ready to inform Parliament. It might be too late later. That's why I'm asking it to be the last item of the agenda, so if we appreciate that there's no information, there can be an interruption on that point and a continuation of the session, if we want good to this country, if we want good relations with our international community partners who are also fighting a violent battle against terrorism. So, once we've been ID'd whether or not we are. Why does Parliament run away from it? And running away from the key things and responsibilities is making politics of everything. The chairman of his, this council of ministers, take the exposés, side by side and ten times mentioned responsibility. I agree, but that responsibility cannot go beyond either the chairman or the minister. How do you think citizens feel about being told that they will be returned 4.5 marks
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7612	Mr. Špirić, you've run out of time for business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7613	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7614	That's it. Thank you. Next came Mr. Avdić, as I recall. Here you go, Mr. Avdić. After that, Mr. Jusufović, and Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7615	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, honored guests of the Council of Ministers, I also want to point out briefly my opinion, and this is the Bulldozer project is one of the important steps simply which seems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, the project "Buldozer" is looking for a plan and a programme for the implementation of the project, which means that the plan and the programme for the implementation of the project should come under emergency to Parliament. And in that context, we are absolutely unprepared today for such a way of working. Which means we have nothing, and no information on the Buldozer project, which means that there is a relapse of 12 unsustainable methodologies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means that it is absolutely necessary to point out once again -- the Council of Ministers is the body of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, the highest executive institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It corresponds to this House. Is that so? If so, then it is objectively necessary that everything we do, he can partner the OHR how not, implement a joint project, but in this home to start information. The second is the plan and the program and everything else that is necessary and necessary. So there would be no such requirements for changing the agenda if we had one established clear methodology of work and the functioning of simply the highest government institutes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I repeat again -- the Council of Ministers is responsible for the BiH Parliament, primarily the House of Representatives who elects it. And in this context, the system of communication and responsibilities of people in the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities is quite clear. Secondly, it must be clear to the OHR and to understand one situation in which we are the two authorities are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal institutes of government BH institutions. The second authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the board of directors of the Peace Implementation Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina, through its OHR office and through its High Representative. People need to be aware of that fact. So how do you harmonize it now? How to harmonize making these decisions? How to prevent the devaluation of the Council of Ministers, what fellow Špirić says 10 marks, or 14.5 marks? I understand the position of the Council of Ministers. But objectively, I'm asking those decisions to be made together. It can't be like two opposing half of OHR and a simple Council of Ministers. They must harmonize their policy simply through agreements and joint meetings to solve problems in this country. Until we have this, we will have these demands for the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, these simple parliamentary issues, etc. etc. Lawmakers this year show a truly full degree of creativity. So I ask the College to simply reflect that it is an active situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and not wait for what comes from the Council of Ministers, but to ask the Council of Ministers for what is the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is the agenda, what is “Buldožer”, what is simply what fellow Špirić is saying. It means I'm done. I propose that we be aware of the situation in which we are, and on the other hand, of my fellow Špirić, I would also suggest that a thematic session be scheduled to discuss exclusively the principles and conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy where the Bureau would be present, that is, the Council of Ministers and both the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It's necessary people. Prepare that session and bring simply so that there will be no disharmonics at the Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of Ministers, etc. etc. So there's a lot of problems, and I'd ask the College to accept the function that makes sense to him and that this home is simply the backbone that gives him tasks and jobs, and it's not just waiting for what the Council of Ministers is going to give him in charge of doing, doing, etc. etc. Let's change the order of things. Let's be initiators. We simply expect and ask the Council of Ministers for what is necessary and good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7616	I thank Mr. Avdić. Okay. Mrs. Palavrić, I'm sorry Mr. Jusufović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7617	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to realize this initiative by Mr. Špirić that it is the need to discuss this issue today. The truth is, I see it in a whole other context. And it seems to me that with one transformation of this initiative, this would be really necessary to have a debate today on the question of no non-trust, because these people need to be given confidence, but why not they did it, but Špirić. They should have done it but automatically to stand behind this parliament and to figure out once and for all what we are in the situation. This is an ugly message. It is necessary to clearly say an ugly message by OHR when people, just sat down, began to think seriously using a very legitimate and legal way, to make a decision in two hours, or three hours, to get an order – we change this much or so. It is an ugly message in both the people and the public. That should be made clear. Is it perhaps with that decision, I absolutely do not think that the OHR should have intervened whether or not a formal legal protectorate was introduced in Bosnia and Herzegovina that hangs in the air it does not exist. Maybe we should be told. But what I'm saying is that this assembly, whether it's a position or an opposition, might be able to find a way to put this point on the agenda and support these people to work. So he chose them; this Parliament chose them. They are spit, and in this way they spit on Parliament as much as they cannot protect these people. Well, then let the OHR make whatever decisions they want, at least let's stand by that decision and change it immediately if I want. In that sense, I see this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7618	I would ask the MPs once again to come out for a pay phone if they knew, please take your seat, always taking care of what stage of the session we are in. Not everything can be done in the first 30 minutes of the session. There's a line, there's a Rules of Procedure. We've been having discussions about the essence, and we're discussing the agenda. Please, if you want to protect the dignity and dignity of this home, then stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's about the agenda. It's not a debate about the essence. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is asking for a word. Here you go. Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers according to the Rules of Procedure, when he asks for a word, shall be allowed to speak immediately. I apologize to Mrs. Palavrić, who was announced, but so is the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must admit that I do not see and qualify for the new Council of Ministers, I do not see this council of ministers that I chair. Especially not in what MP Jusufović said about some kind of spit, etc. This council of ministers simply did not discuss at all the level of the price of the ID card for several reasons. And the first and basic reason why we absolutely didn't have any elements at that moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7620	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7621	Please, please, Mr. Jusufović, please refrain from comment while speaking at the pay phone. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7622	So we absolutely didn't discuss the price level because we didn't have the input data. If someone is spit, the Council of Ministers, which passed the rule in 12 months 2002, said the price of the ID card, driver's license and registration. This Council of Ministers, since we have come into the situation to charge on CIPS counters a price which is not subject to a rule passed by the Council of Ministers by making a decision and publishing in the Official List, this Council of Ministers has only cared for behind that Regulation and formed an inter-resistant group of economic experts in the Council of Ministers who should and should, and here it is just finishing its work to propose to the new Council of Ministers any amendments and additions to the Regulations or to maintain the existing Regulation. So this council of ministers has made only three conclusions. 1. That the Council of Ministers has been identified and supported by the CIPS project as a project that is key projects for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU. 2. To oblige the institutions in charge of issuing ID cards to apply a rule published by the Council of Ministers in the 12th month again in 2002 and to call on the Audit Office to find the audit, as we received information from the CIPS Director that the audit was subject to review at the 10th month, to deliver to the resolution ministry so that they could answer the parliamentary question of Dr. Zlatko of Lagumdžija and 3. To form an interresor group. And that's all. Afterwards, the High Representative reacted as he reacted and not only reacted to this high representative but to all senior representatives as part of his mandate. And I just don't see any reason to ask for some responsibility from the Council of Ministers. 15 We may seek the responsibility of the last council of ministers whose time of technical mandate has begun to issue ID cards at that price, and they have passed a rule on a completely different price. But I don't think that's what we need and that it can only stop us from a CIPS project that's a crucial project for this country. Discussing anyone's responsibility in this matter can only lead us to reopening the process of agreeing whether the price of the ID card is 5.5 marks or could have been slightly lower. Acceptance of union positions, graphics, acceptance of the views of photographer unions, etc. etc. This council of ministers is trying to speed up the CIPS project, but you must understand that neither I nor the Council of Ministers can make a decision without sufficient input. And the only thing we've done is introduce everything into the legal procedure, say that for us, and that's supposed to be for the CIPS Directorate, the rule that's been published, I'm re-substantiating it in the 12th month of 2002. On the other hand, I am pleased that the MPs are impatient to move towards universal reforms. Believe me, it's a tremendous encouragement for me and I take full responsibility for the Council of Ministers to take advantage of your commitment. When it comes to finding the “Buldozer Commission” I do not think he is ready to be in front of MPs. The finding must first be considered and taken over by commitments to co-ordination between state and entity governments that will take place early next week. Because in that report, we have a certain number of laws that apply, which are in state-level jurisdiction. A larger number of entities and one number of cantonal levels. I say responsibly that we will come out very quickly with no information, but with laws that need amendments and additions to the laws treated by this report. And here, gentlemen, you will have the opportunity to show all your commitment to reform just as the Council of Ministers will have the opportunity to show its commitment to reform when it determines the text of the amendments and additions to the laws that have been treated in the report "Buldozer Commission". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7623	You can't. Mrs. Sead. You can't get a word in. There's no discussion. This is a debate on the agenda, no debate on the essence. Please. Please, if it's the Rules of Procedure you have a minute. Here you go. Wait, Mrs. Palavrić. There's no argument. This is a debate on the agenda. I'm not gonna let this session and otherwise the sessions of this house turn into something they can't be. It's strictly in the Rules of Procedure. You're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7624	I thank you for giving me your words. Please, I believe that, apart from the MPs in this House, the Prime Minister and the other members of the Council of Ministers should also know the Rules of Procedure. Given that I am one of the signatories of this initiative, and under Article 116, we had the right to initiate a motion to vote on mistrust. And it's nice to write what's done here. 16 Mr. Terzić went out and defended the government before it came to the agenda, and will not be there for 20 days. Apparently, he needed to say he was guilty before he should have discussed it. And there's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, and you should have interrupted him, even though he's the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7625	Thank you, Mr. Živković. You abused what I allowed you to come to the pay phone because you had no business intervention. Allow me as chairman of the House to take care of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure and believe me, when we come to discuss it, and it will come as a proposal made by Mr Špirić, you will hear what the chairman of the House will say. So, please. Everything that all MPs think in the first 30 minutes cannot happen at this session. There's order, and that's why there's a Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to stick to the order. We're discussing the agenda. Discussions are short with clear suggestions without discussion to enter the session itself. Mrs. Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7626	I first want to invite my colleagues to a little more professionalism in our work. I, regardless of what is being said here, have not seen any of these initiatives presented for this speaker in writing. For this speaker, the initiators of new initiatives act like when I talk to citizens about what their problem is. Gentlemen, I expect at least that much, if we are already professionals, whether we are in a permanent working relationship or not, I think this job should be done by someone who can do it professionally, to choose to do it in writing and to deliver it in good time and suggest it. Why does it always happen that at the session itself when we discuss the agenda, all kinds of initiatives appear. I ask colleagues who can't get used to the habit of setting the agenda for a few hours still think about their behavior and design initiatives in writing and deliver them to all of us on time. Also when it comes to solving any questions about not acting the way, you know, I have this problem, so I think we should sort it out somehow. No, gentlemen, we are the ones who need to solve these problems alone to the ministers, with the Council of Ministers, with the services of this Parliament and to offer solutions. The project “buldožer” I really think is necessary for each of us MPs to get a report from this committee as much as we do today on our benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7627	Seada's three minutes out. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7628	to get acquainted with the report, no matter what anyone does. We need a report. And when we find out what our job is, let's not talk about it, it's going to be 50 days from the day we get it, when this, when that. We are obliged to respect this deadline, because the identification carried out by the Commission “Buldozer Commission” should have been carried out and we will be sitting all the time, but we will solve this problem. The Iraqi crisis. Gentlemen, I don't know where we live. We know that the Presidency is responsible for taking positions in foreign policy, the Foreign Ministry is carrying them out, we as Parliament are overseeing them. The presidency has taken a stand on the Iraqi crisis and I believe that this issue has been resolved. If there are new moments, the presidency should probably answer. And the CIPS project. Come on, please. Let's not act like orthodox demagogues. Persistent members of the former council of ministers are now trying to put the problem on the new council of ministers, and all of their responsibility or irresponsibility on this call.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7629	Thank you, Seada. It's a complete discussion. I'm sorry. Three minutes are up. This is a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7630	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7631	Here you go, Mr. Špirić. Wrong quote. You've got the wrong quote for a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7632	Gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, you are absolutely right and I think we should have a debate on the agenda, not initiatives. It is the right of the MPs to conduct a business initiative that is not under discussion, and here is exactly what it says in Article 116. The proposal from the previous point shall be submitted to the Chairman of the House in written form signed and with an explanation, which has been done. So I said I had one initiative and one point to supplement the agenda. No one was obliged to open a debate on the initiative, as it must be implemented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and will be the agenda within 20 to 30 days. What will be the report and the debate? We can't judge now. But you have now entered the defense of the defenseless. So there's no need to discuss it. There is a debate on the agenda, and it is in this sense that Mrs Palavrić is guilty, because it is defined by Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7633	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Zorić. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7634	I welcome fellow MPs and chairman. I suggest we adopt the proposed agenda, but I can't help but think that these hours and twenty have been misused for political purposes, I would say, and I couldn't imagine that the furniture that left power would be so sorry for the authorities, because it hasn't been a month they've been looking for the trust of this government, this chairman of the Council of Ministers and these ministers, half of whom doesn't even have work space. You have truly disappointed me, gentlemen, that you have left power. Give me some dignity. Let go. Every government in the world has at least 100 days, this one seems to have no right for a day. We also saw yesterday when the conclusions were proposed, when we asked for quality reports and when we proposed three months, that deadline was not known for which reason it was reduced to one month. So on the basis of such an unquality report, because I already see that it will not be of quality, then again, the responsibility of individual ministers or the entire Council of Ministers or Chairmans will be sought, etc. Let's give some jurisdiction, give some dignity to ourselves. Let's adopt the agenda and work, because we spent an hour and a half in nothing. And I resent the president why individuals, so here maybe he doesn't interrupt me if they don't discuss the agenda. I only went out with one thought here to suggest that we adopt the proposed agenda and start working. At least 5-6 of the debaters turned out not to mention those two magic words on the agenda. And I'd really like to start working, and all of these initiatives are being considered. Except for what counterpart Palavrić said, we didn't know about these initiatives until today. We're not ready for those initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7635	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Raguž Martin eventually asked for a word, the second vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7636	About the agenda. The proposal to supplement Mr Špirić's agenda was to consider the political views of the BiH institutions on the Iraqi crisis, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission I would like to say that we have considered this issue, we have requested all relevant information from the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. For Wednesday, they agreed on a meeting and invited them to an open debate on the Commission's position in preparation for this House of Parliament and a thematic debate on meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitments to the post-war Iraq crisis, so on the topic of foreign policy. I mean, Dom works. Following what Mr Avdić said that the College recognises the interest of the representatives, their will, I think we have absolutely recognized it. Yesterday, despite your criticism and for not having prepared materials, we held a meeting on the matter of security to answer and legitimize this home to have responsibility for this issue. As for the initiative to remove obstacles, I think it should be called in this House, the working name can be “Buldozer” and can be used elsewhere. Both colleges held joint sessions, special sessions, talked to key people, and we said we were open to discussing all issues, and we are ready to take responsibility 19 when it comes to Parliament. So we expect to get a quality entrance so we can put it on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7637	I thank Mr. Raguž. I'm closing the debate on the agenda and we're moving on to a plea. So here's the deal. As chairman of the House, I have informed you about what part of the College and I have been doing as chairman of this home in contact with those responsible for the plan for the activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to adopt amendments from the initiative to remove obstacles to business development and the creation of jobs called the “Buldozer” initiative. So I gave the information. I do what I can at this point. That's two things. First, on behalf of this house, I would like to ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to give us these materials when he officially receives the deliveries here so that we can distribute them immediately to the MPs. And here I am doing it on behalf of this house. And we will act on our plan as part of our powers and we will respect the deadlines set by our rules of procedure, and it is possible to fit the deadlines set by the international community and the deadlines set in our Rules of Procedure. However, I am obliged, however, to join Mr Lagumdžija's proposal to join Mr Živković today as the 17th point – the debate of Parliament on this bulldozer initiative, its content and everything Mr Lagumdžija has said and what Mr Živković has stated in his reasoning as a proposal for the agenda. I invite you to plead - who is it to put it as the 17th point of the agenda today? Excuse me as point two, Mr. Lagumdžija has proposed as item two of the agenda. Who's that? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Are there any abstentions? Give me the results. May I have your attention, please? We're waiting for the results to level so we can publish the results so we can move on. Please. Like this. 36 currently present in the O.R. or voted 36, voted 13, voted against 16, with five abstentions. That's why 29 voted. No, 36, it is. Actually, two didn't vote. So here's the deal. 36 is in the O.R., voting for 13, against vote 16, abstention five, and two did not vote. Right? Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Živković's proposal did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. 20 Let's move on. Mr Špirić's proposal, so Mr Špirić has one comment, has one initiative and has one proposal. That's what I'd call it. As for the comment, it refers to the Law on Gender Equality. I also regret, on my part, that no agreement on the subject has been reached in the College, but MPs will have the opportunity to bring themselves to the polls on the subject properly. And that's all I can say right now. As for the initiative of the gentleman who presented Mr Špirić, and she is called and delivered to me in writing, after Mr Špirić finished his discussion on the topic – the initiative on the vote on the mistrust of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. SNSD Members' Club in accordance with Article 116. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives are launching an initiative to vote for mistrust with the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are three members of the club, then Mr Gligorić and Mr Blagojević. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives in Article 116 says – The Club of MPs or at least 10 MPs in the House can initiate a motion for a vote on mistrust by the Council of Ministers. The proposal from the previous point shall be submitted to the chairman of the House in writing, signed with the explanation. The House chairman immediately submits this proposal to the Council of Ministers, MPs and the House of Peoples. And all I can say as chairman at this time is that I ask, therefore, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary of the House delivers this initiative to the requested addresses, and that further procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure itself. All that was said on the subject here today was unnecessary and surplus, and that's why I may have been trying a little bit and too hard to ask you to let me run the session and to trust you. Because the Komisisija for Foreign Policy without which it is, of course, impossible to hold a debate in this House takes care of it and that it has made a certain plan of action that will eventually be directed here towards Parliament and Parliament will have the opportunity to say what it needs to say. So I think we're ready to discuss it today, and I think it would be a good idea to accept what Mr. Raguž was talking about. But if Mr. Špirić insists on voting. You insist on eating. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who is to place the agenda point, that is, Parliament's position on the Iraqi crisis as the 17th point of the agenda of today's session. Who's in? Count the votes. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? Please just. I'm sorry. All right, all right. Go on, you guys. Thank you very much. Give me the results. The results of the vote are like this. At 37, voting for 4, the vote was 17, with 15 abstentions. So this proposal, Mr Špirić, did not get the necessary parliamentary majority, and I therefore interpret from this that Parliament has practically committed to 21 what the Vice-President and President of the Commission for Foreign Policy spoke of on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament after this I declare the agenda of today's session. 1. Journal of the 8th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH (Law in Second Reading), 4. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on movement and residence of foreigners and asylum (Law in first reading), 5. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Law in First Reading), 6. The request of MPs Šefik Džaferović, Borislav Paravac and Martin Raguž for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105, 7. A Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Quality of Certain Products on Import and Export (Second Reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 9. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 10. Proposal for a Law on the Matika of the emigrants of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 11. Selection of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in: (a) Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, (b) Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, (c) Central European Initiative, (d) Interparliamentary Union, 12. Selection of members of the House Commission - instead of Mr Niko Lozančić a) Constitutional and Legal Commission, b) Administrative Commission, 13. The appointment of a member in the Interim Commission for the Preparation of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives (instead of Mr Nikola Špirić) who expressed his wish not to work in that commission, 14. Proposal for a decision on the selection procedure of four members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board, 15. Termination of the parliamentary term of Izet Žigić, a) Proposal for a decision to determine the termination of the parliamentary term (b) Selection of a member of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives, 16. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Treaty between the governments of the Balkan countries on economic and scientific technical co-operation in the area of agriculture, (b) Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, (c) Agreement on a five-year co-operation development programme 2002. – 2006 between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, d) Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives with the aim of detecting, e) Convention on the Security of UN personnel and associated staff and f) International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorist and Bombs. 22 It is the agenda of today’s session. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The record from the 8th session of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening up a hearing in zapinisk. Mr. Mirsad will Ćeman with izvoljeti.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7638	Mr. Chairman, I've got a little suggestion on page 8, and it's point 17. — Giving consent to ratification of certain credit agreements from (a) to (e) states in the record that the House of Representatives unanimously gave consent which is not disputed. In view of the fact that when other points were at issue, all those who participated in the discussion, purely technical corrections for the sake of this point, I went out and just pointed out the need for any consideration as to whether the credits in the way they were given were the most favourable solutions and I only ask that in fact, in relation to point 17. there was a discussion and discussion on the subject, because it was also said about other points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7639	I thank you, too. Keep going. Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7640	The 7th item of the agenda, 11th, is about information on BiH's responsibility and it is found that there has been no discussion. It was a discussion, because it was just on the basis of the discussion that came to these conclusions that were proposed here. So I intervene that instead of suggesting that there was no discussion, it should stand that after the discussion, so state the people who discussed it and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7641	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk about the record? If no one answers their question, I'm the one who concludes the discussion of the record. Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Belkić's remarks are in place and I suggest we vote on the minutes with the remarks of Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Belkić. Who is for the record to adopt the minutes in this text with remarks from MPs Ćeman Mirsad and Beriz Belkić? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly unanimously adopted the minutes of the 8th session in the text, as it was written in the material you received for today's session, with remarks from MPs Ćeman Mirsad and Beriz Belkić. Second item of the agenda, 23 Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers Dama and gentlemen, we have received answers to the 2nd questions, Mr Mirsad Ćeman and Mr selo Bešlagić's question in the meantime. Please, I'm opening up a question of new MPs. Who wants to ask questions? Mrs. Sopta, after that. Mrs. Sopta, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7642	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers, on the basis of the written address of a few interested, and I ask our club and our club members on behalf of the club representative questions. Is there another country in the world that has a regular cigarette market like Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's about more questions, but the same subject. What is the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina's tobacco industry in relation to cigarette importers, especially when it compares itself to the regulations in our areas of neighbouring countries, Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and the EU countries? Effects in the entity's budget normally and from the manufacturer of cigarettes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what would they be if the regulations were arranged, for example, as in Croatia or any neighbouring country? And when will the law change?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7643	Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Paravac will refer to this question as I understand it, and then Mr. Lagumdžija, a business intervention. Here's a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7644	I got this question myself, and I passed it on to the tobacco factory in Banja Luka. I received a reply from them to fully support these issues and they submitted a proposal for measures to protect domestic production. I would refer him to the Council of Ministers who should otherwise answer these questions, so that he could use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7645	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija Zlatko, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7646	Mr. Chairman, you have stated that you have provided answers to the relevant questions of two MPs, or three replies to the two MPs. 24 First of all, I would like to express my regret that, normally, when parliamentary issues begin, a representative of a sufficient number of the Council of Ministers may be present to shorten the procedure, especially in the case of questions which you do not need to go into the procedure, which may be answered on the spot. However, in 4.2, I asked a parliamentary question a month ago concerning the CIPS project and Article 126. The Rules of Procedure of Section 3 are defined that when an oral reply is sought, I have asked one in writing, one in oral form that the answer to these questions will be included in the agenda according to which after at least 7 days, no later than 30 days after they have been referred to the Council of Ministers. I want to make sure that deadline's up. It is also defined that the Council of Ministers can only ask once for a postponement of the debate for the first plenary session. I expected that today someone from the Council of Ministers would ask for a delay that according to the Rules of Procedure would give me an answer to that question. As for the written answer, the written reply can be given within 15 days and can be extended, must be given within 15 days and may be extended by 10 days. This is defined by Article 128, Mr. Chairman, point 3. The very natural point of Article 128 of that same article is that if the entity, it was me, or it was the Council of Ministers, the pardon does not provide the answer within those deadlines, the applicant of the question, if the MP, in this case I, may ask the College to include the question required by the oral answer in the agenda at the first next session of the House. In fact, it's a very delicate matter that we're discussing so much. I really don't want us hiding here behind business procedures. I don't need that answer anymore if this council of ministers doesn't think anything needs to be done here. The more we heard today from the chairman of the Council of Ministers that the debates of responsibility should not be conducted, the more I think discussions of responsibilities should be conducted. And for the past Council of Ministers and for this to the extent that it exists. I also think, now I've heard today that the audit was done, and I've been looking for that data and I haven't received it. Last Council of Ministers established its Rules of Procedure on 12 months last year, and I believe that the Council of Ministers should be held accountable if it has done something contrary to the law, the more the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the past meeting is Dragan Mikerević, and he is now fairly available to this council of ministers, given that the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska is responsible. I also heard today that the PRISS Council had not discussed the price once, and we heard representatives of the Council of Ministers at a press conference that literally said that the Commission would determine crime. I ask you to insist that indeed such large things are informed of this house in an appropriate manner. You owe me an answer. You didn't do it, you didn't do it with the Rules of Procedure. I really think of the chairman as being correct after all that in the article with Article 128 point 5, I'm not asking, I'm not asking, I'm not asking, but to have this debate because as time goes on, this council of ministers is going to wrap up like a chicken in the house in the CIPS and you're going to have a problem that things are going to cost more and more expensive and more expensive, and that the project is going to be more and more weighty and that ultimately the result of that is going to be what no one here wants. 25 I would really ask you to understand this in the most well-intentioned way as well as anything that normally comes from opposition lines, because we really want these reforms to be implemented in the right way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7647	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić, then Mrs. Palavrić. So, sir, here's to writing, then I have to start writing, but here's a little follow-up, and you guys, help. You have it written down, Mrs. Palavrić is up to it now, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7648	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask two questions today. My questions are actually addressed to the Council of Ministers, through this pay phone, and they say, "Is it known, if I do not know, that if I ask for an urgent examination of this, make information about the following?" 1. Which are loyal and where have all the factories and production plants disappeared during the war and immediately after the war, and where are they now? I expect information at the same time and ask to be told who did it and how is their current situation? Are they working or not working? If they work where they work? Furthermore, I particularly ask that the transfer made within Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders from the Federation's territory to the territory of Republika Srpska and vice versa from Republika Srpska's territory to the Federation's territory be pointed out. And in isolated information, I specifically request that the transfer from Bosnia and Herzegovina to other countries' ex territories be listed. Yugoslavia. I ask that the Council of Ministers propose a solution to this issue to Parliament and that appropriate measures be taken at the same level as the state. It's a set-up in the first question. 2. I ask that Parliament be informed of the state and fate of the airport complex of Zelja on Pljesevski platou, which is worth several billion dollars. The information says that it was an object worth over $4.5 billion, and I expect from the information - what is the current state of the facility, - is it done, and if it is not when the distinction with the Republic of Croatia and - what is further done with that object - for which purposes it is used and under what conditions and why? I'm looking for a proposal from the Council of Ministers on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7649	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Who's up now? Mrs. Palavrić, let Mr. Živković prepare himself. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7650	I've got three questions, and I'm gonna hurry up so I don't break my time. 1. The BiH budget is funded by a large number of commissions, services and similar bodies formed by domestic authorities at the state level and by the High Representative for BiH. You can't see from the budget, as you know, the salary, or members, and especially not the president of those bodies. I therefore ask the Council of Ministers on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action, and we ask him to deliver to us - the number and names of commissions and other bodies at the state level, their activity, the number of employees, the information on whether the employees meet the law laid down conditions of expertise and job placement, the level of salaries both by members and by the president of those bodies, in order for the public to have insight into what is being spent by taxpayers. This is especially because the information is circulated in the cults that many employees are in an illegal manner, because it is not respected by the law of the prescribed procedure. That they do not meet the law laid down conditions regarding professional qualifications, that presidents and even members of some of these bodies have multiple salaries than top officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. I really think it's time for the Council of Ministers to explain to us what's going on with the third operator, Jesse. I know that the issue was at the beginning of the previous Council of Ministers' term and has not been resolved. I think it's finally time we got an answer and three. I think it's time for the members of this parliament to get a document in which stage is the additional value tax at state level? I expect answers to all questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7651	Just give us that paper, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7652	He's got a stenogram, this isn't
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7653	You'll get us, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's in writing. I'd like to ask you in writing, so this is all you've said in writing so that the question can be put in the process. Mr. Živković, right? Let him prepare after Živković, who is next, Mr Gligorić called earlier, let Mr Gligorić go, then Mr Đedović, and then Mr Jovanović. Write such a order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7654	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of all, to say that I didn't answer immediately when Mr. Chairman said that I had abused this pay phone, that I would say 27 that I was under the impression that the chairman had double standards for individual MPs. Named yesterday.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7655	The parliamentary questions are Mr. Živković, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7656	Okay, so that's how we'll talk. All right. First of all, I would ask that at least half the ministers be here on parliamentary matters so that we can ask parliamentary questions. If you can provide that, I would ask the question, if not, then it will happen as with my first parliamentary question that I have not yet received any answer, and it was about asking a single price and throwing out a Roma in BiH. That question you got in writing, I still haven't got any answer. This question I will now ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs – does the Ministry intend to organise a census in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004? If someone told me orally, I'd like to know who's going to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7657	Thank you, Mr. Živković. You gave it up in writing here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7658	Yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7659	Thank you very much. Sir, good, good. Please don't. Mr. Gligorić, let him prepare afterwards, we said Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7660	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that I did not get an answer on the parliamentary issue, and it said that the Bureau and the Council of Ministers are giving an answer on the meaning of all the activities and financing of all the activities, meaning BiH's suit against the SRJ. I'm asking a new parliamentary question because I've received a lot of letters from our citizens, returnees, and I've received from some associations of both regional and second levels, and it refers to Canton Tuzla. So the question would be this - Yes the Council of Ministers means BiH answers the question – how many Srbin are returned to Canton Tuzlo, how many Serb-owned houses have been devastated and how many Srbin-owned houses have been restored? Of course, I'm looking for data in numerical, percent and written form. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7661	Okay. Just leave it in writing. Mr. Đedović has a question. Let Mr. Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7662	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs question in front of two mixed clubs - Will the mixed clubs DNZ, BOOS, Working to improve HKDU, NHI, Pensioners and SDU get working rooms from the room that will end in the BiH Parliament through the donation of the Norwegian government as it provided us in response to the Administrative Commission. Explanation. For a long time, we have been pointing out the need to find rooms for adequate work. We referred this request to the Home Secretariat first, then to the Administrative Commission. The Administrative Commission considered our request 25.2. and gave an answer that we are not satisfied with. In this way we express the protest and refer this question to the College of the Home, that the faces of the premises, which we are given as a possibility to be some of these rooms assigned to our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7663	Thank you. Just give that question in writing and, if you can, address to the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives. Don't give that to the College. We have a commission for that. All right, all right, college. It's going to the college question okay. Mr. Jovanović has a word. Let Mr. Adem Huskić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7664	I wish the chairman had stayed in the assembly, so perhaps he could have answered or possibly one of the ministers and deputies, and the question concerns the following. A few days ago, we read in the press that Deputy High Representative Mr Frajzdner, if I have translated it well, with UN tribunal President Kloda Žord, signed an agreement, based on conclusions on the processing of a number of war crimes indictees in BiH before domestic courts. And the question is this. Did the Council of Ministers know about such a signing, did he approve it in any way? If you've approved it, why have you authorised the Deputy High Representative to sign it on behalf of BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7665	You've been asked if that's the case. Mr. Huskić. Let Mr. Ćeman prepare, then Mr. Špirić and Sead Avdić and that's what we have reported. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7666	Dear Presidency, I have a brief question and that is. Who owns and what is the further fate of the facilities that owned the SRBiH, which are currently out of function and how many are there at all?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7667	I thank Mr. Huskić. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad, and let Mr. Špirić Nikola be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7668	I asked a question in writing yesterday, and I'm not going back to it, it's already in the process. For today, I have a quick question and it says so. Where are all the waste dumps that SFOR forces in BiH use for their own purposes? Are the authorities in BiH following the impact of these dumps on infrastructure facilities, primarily water supply facilities, and what is being done to remove the negative influences that it obviously has, given the cases that have been discussed in public but also those cases that have not yet reached the public's voice? The question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and I request a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7669	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Nikola Špirić, and let Mr. Avdić Sead be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7670	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I think that it may be necessary to continue to cultivate practice in order, and this is also the business opportunity for MPs to be more satisfied that there is an opportunity to get an answer on the spot from the Council of Ministers of Address sent. I'm afraid that we have entered a correspondence with the state authorities and that we will be increasingly dissatisfied with the answers or dissatisfied with the fact that there is no answer. In that sense, I want to start one, ask a question. Will the Council of Ministers, therefore, send an emergency to the Federation government to implement the decision of the House of Human Rights against the return of the property of military pensioners, members of former JNAs living in RS today? It is a large number of people, whose property is usurped and there is a decision of the House of Human Rights, there is an imposition, I would say changes to the legal solutions in Federation law or there is no good political will, or there is a blockade, and therefore I ask the Council of Ministers to send an emergency to the House for Human Rights to be executed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7671	Leave it in writing. Mr. Sead Avdić, please come in and after that we will conclude the agenda of parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7672	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I want once again, so I also asked the same question at the last session, i.e. the request, which means I repeat the urgent request of the 30-minitor Council to offer a full strategy for the privatisation of the electricity sector in BiH with the aim of a unique methodology and respecting the demands of the union of electricians and RS and the Federation of BiH. The urgency also requires today's session of the Republika Srpska NS, which discusses an action plan for the privatisation of the electricity system, is that right, RS. Which means, since the Council of Ministers is really deaf to this request of mine, I am asking, in accordance with Article 128, for the next session of the House, to provide for an oral response in front of this home or a proposal from the aspect or response from the abstract of this request.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7673	I thank Mr. Avdić. This is how I close the second item of the agenda. Before we move to the 3rd item of the agenda, since many MPs for these or those reasons started coming out of the hall into the hallway and coming back here, I, in order to allow all MPs to attend here in the O.R., that we do not have this practice of frequent exits and entrances, I propose a break and set a break of 15 minutes, continue at 13 and 15. MPs, we're moving to the third item of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Bill on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH This legislative proposal was in parliamentary procedure during the previous meeting of this house, the Council of Ministers proposed. At the 29th House session in last July of 2002, the law was adopted in the first reading. At the 30th session held on 1 August 2002, the law was discussed in a second reading, when amendments by MPs Željko Bilbija and Emina Zaćiragić were not given an entity majority and the process of agreeing on amendments was carried out. At the 31st session of the House on 16 September 2002, the law did not receive an entity majority, and it was necessary to implement the reconciliation procedure. The Dom College in the last term failed to do the job, as elections followed. At the conclusion of this house, the procedure for the law has been continued where it stands. You've received a report from the commission of this college, calling this one in. As you have seen, unfortunately, this college has not reached its agreement on the law. It is our duty to declare on the proposal for a law on equality and gender equality in the second round of voting and to ask you to join the vote. I ask the messengers who is to be adopted, all MPs ask the Law of Equality and Gender Equality? Who's in? Thank you very much. Did you count the votes? Yes, it is. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you very much. I'm asking the Federation MPs, I'm asking you just a little attention, it's an important matter, we're watching the procedure. I ask MPs from the Federation of BiH who is against this law? Thank you very much. Have you recorded the situation? No one's against it. 31 I ask the MPs of the RS who is against this law? Thank you very much. Give me the results to publish. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am publishing the results of the vote. There are 36 MPs present. Of the 36 MPs present in the general vote, 27 voted in favour of the law, 5 voted against, four MPs were abstentioned, and I find that the law has received general parliamentary support. In the second round of voting, the vote takes place by pleading on the principle that against the law. The Federation was no one against the law and the RS against the law was six MPs. Given the results of the vote, as the law received general parliamentary support, and in the second round there were no two-thirds against the Federation and there were no two-thirds against RS, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on Gender Equality and Equality. Let's move on. So the House of Representatives passed this law. You wrote me a report for six, and it was against six. I noticed it, so there's no confusion you wrote, it was against six. That's it. Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Movement and Staying Foreigners and Asylum, and this is about the Bill Proposal, for which the procedure began in the previous assembly of the House. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. At the 31st session of 16 September 2002, the draft law did not receive an entity majority in the first reading, it is a law on first reading. The alignment was carried out in this college. You have received a report from the College as the Commission. This law was reached by agreement in the first reading of the College, with the fact that the Second Reading bill is being considered at the next session and that it is possible to make amendments available in the next 15 days from today to the second reading, which should also be declared by the Constitutional and Legal Commission if these amendments are agreed and I hereby conclude that the Proposal for a Law on Movement and Tourist Foreigners and Asylum is adopted in the second reading, I repeat, with the possibility that we have been allowed by the College of Investments in the next 15 days from today, which will be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and then we will have in the second reading again here at the House, so that we have completed this point of the Agenda. Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for an executive procedure before the Court of Justice as you know this legislative proposal at the 8th session of this House since 4 February 2003 was discussed in the first reading, which failed to obtain an entity majority and carried out the harmonisation procedure. You have received a report from the Commission from the College. You've seen that no consent has been reached. Please join the vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. I ask you who is for this law in first reading, the complete Dom Question? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you very much. We're going to the second round. I ask MPs from the Federation of BiH who is against this law? Thank you very much. 32 I ask the MPs of the RS who is against this law? Thank you very much. Give me the results of the vote. I'm publishing the results of the vote. A total of 36 MPs voted 26 – against 9; there were no co-chairs. The law received general parliamentary support. In the second round of voting from the Federation of BiH, there were no MPs. From the RS there were nine MPs against. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parlamnetarian Assembly of BiH adopted the bill, i.e. the Law on Prosecution before the Court of Justice of BiH. What kind of reading is this, Branko? In the first reading, because the law received general parlamentary support and there were no more than two-thirds against the one. There was no one from the Federation, and the RS was 9 which was less than two-thirds against it. So I find that the law was won in the first reading parliamentary support. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. A request to consider the draft law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH At the beginning, it seems to me enough to hold this item on the agenda. Just to point out once again that this law came into force on 31 December last year and was published in the Official Messenger of BiH, number 41/02 was adopted in the House of Peoples in the same text as the High Representative and I urge you to vote on this text, as we voted on it, in fact last time, when it comes to the essence, here is only a formal and legal difference so I ask you and technical Who is for, first of all, a request of 105. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Exasperated? Okay. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? So, I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH unanimously with 36 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions and in this way in the text as declared by the High Representative and adopted by the House of Peoples, and in this way the conditions for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH were met, this law was published in the Official Messenger of BiH as its law. Ad.7. Proposal for a law on the monitoring of the quality of certain products on imports and exports – Second reading At the 4th session of this House on 17 December 2002, the Council of Ministers was accepted to consider the proposal for this law under a reduced procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. At the 8th session of 4 February O.G. We passed the law in our first reading. So it's about the second reading. You've received a report from the committee in charge. We have also left the possibility of investing amendments on the initiative of some MPs here. There was no amendment. I'm opening a debate about the law itself. I'll close the debate and we'll pass the announcement. 33 I ask you who's in favor of the law? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously with 36 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, passed the Law on the Monitoring of the Quality of Certain Products on Import and Export. Ad.8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH -- first reading, the law's pedicure was reached by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 10 September 2002. The competent commission for human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum delivered the report on 4 February 2003. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7674	My fellow MPs, I only have one suggestion. I think that a similar conclusion has been adopted in the House of Peoples, when it comes to the laws of which we continue, which is to allow 15 days for the amendment phase, given that we have not participated in this committee section of this Parliament, rather than done so before, so that simply one conclusion, as the House of Peoples has done, therefore, all of these cases, all of these laws that we are adopting here in the first reading and we have not participated in the commission phase that we have the possibility of making amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7675	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one is answering anymore, I am concluding the debate and we are moving on to a statement on the law itself in the first reading, and I think that we should make it possible to make amendments within 15 days of today, if one of the MPs wants to do so, I think there is no interference to do so and, therefore, with this proposal to conclude on the possibility of investing amendments that would be reconsidered by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I am putting it on the plea. Who's in? First is reading. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, unanimously with 36 votes for, without blasts against and without abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH, the first reading, with this conclusion, to enable amendments to be made to all those authorised to submit amendments within 15 days from today. Ad.9. Proposal for a law amending the laws on transposition, regulator and operator of the system of el. Energy in BiH, it is the first reading Here it is, therefore, an amendment to the Law on Transfer, regulator and operator of the system el. Energy in BiH, first reading. He's the promoter of the House of Peoples. 34 The House of Representatives was delivered on 12 September 2002. It was delivered to lawmakers on 20 December last year, the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 31.12.2002. A report from the competent Commission for Transport and Communications was submitted to you on 4 February 2003. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Mr. Špirić Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7676	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this is an amendment to the laws that passed in the House of Peoples in the first and second reading, I suggest that, today, if there is a mood for Members to join the first and second reading to definitely adopt the proposal for this law. So, if there is a mood, and I suggest we have a debate in both the first and second readings, to adopt the changes. These are laws that can go according to the Rules of Procedure under Article 105, because it is a small change that is in one sentence, which is understandable and not the laws that count for 120 pages. So, my approach is to combine first and second readings and give support if there's a mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7677	Okay, thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr Miloš Jovanović on behalf of the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7678	I just want to say that the Transport and Communications Commission is discussing this agenda point and has concluded that the headquarters of this agency is being moved, that is to say, to be in Sarajevo in Tuzla. This is where all the members of the Commission voted except for representatives of the Party for BiH. So the Commission's position is to adopt that the agency's headquarters be instead of Sarajevo in Tuzla.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7679	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Huskić Adem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7680	I would ask if there is a representative of the Council of Ministers here, it might not be a bad idea to hear their position, so I'll report for the discussion afterwards. If he can.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7681	Here you go. Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7682	The position of the Council of Ministers is not to accept, because this law that was in the procedure we feel that we have invested a lot about this draft law... the houses of Germany, then the United States and because of the overall situation, because it has already passed the procedure, we believe that this proposal should not be accepted and should remain in Sarajevo. That's the ministry's position. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7683	I thank Mr. Tošić. Mr. Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7684	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I as a member of the Commission, the president said I wasn't up for it. You have all received one letter with me when we received this amendment to the Law, we have received a letter from then-resoring minister Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, which lists the reasons for the opportunity which the gentleman has now made and for these reasons I have considered these arguments stronger than the arguments that speak in favour of bringing about the amendment. So I suggest we don't pass the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7685	I thank Mr. Huskić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7686	I think in this assembly, that is, this parliament is tasked with giving an assessment, and I would ask that, here we who voted to change this, that the representative of the ministry tell us what these changes are in this law if the headquarters were put in Tuzla instead of Sarajevo. Please over 60% of the production el. The power in the Federation is in Tuzla. We're polluting, we're poisoning, and you're just making someone, someone's making a decision. What changes the decision essentially, if the seat is not here but there, because one regulatory agent in Banja Luka, two were scheduled in Sarajevo, so it's time for one to come to Toul. Is there any chance in this country of decentralising some institutions? So I think you have the commission's position. Another thing I have to say to my colleague in the Commission right now is that I said so, but since the Minister then said that he can't, and he's from that party, and if he accepts that he's centralised. If we don't have centralization, we'll fail. I am for the state of law. But let us have the right to tell and explain to the citizens, if please, there is damage to what the seat will be removed from Tuzla, or from Sarajevo in Tuzla, let them tell us that it is 2 – 5 – 7 million I will vote in order to stay here headquarters. Nothing law changes except headquarters. Well, let's just understand that we have MPs from that area to say about these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7687	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. It's a little slow right now. Is it a replica, Mr. Huskić? Mr. Huskić replica, then Nenad Mišić, followed by Mrs. Hadžiahmetović Azra and Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7688	I don't know if it's more correct to say in this case a replica or a false quote. I didn't say it the way Mr. Bešlagić quoted me as saying it. I said I'm from Tuzla, maybe I'd perform like him, that's what I said, not that I'm about to move there. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7689	Thank you. Mr. Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7690	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the respected members of the Council of Ministers, since I am going out for the first time, I would like to welcome you and propose an immediate concrete proposal since I was also a member of the Commission on behalf of the SDS Club, we support the initiative to bring both readings together and to vote today to supplement the law. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7691	Thank you. Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović then Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7692	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have sent a letter to Parliament in due time, or both of the homes of the BiH Parliament, not because I am not from Tuzla, not because I am from Sarajevo, etc. to prefer any seat, but I am obliged to this House, especially since most MPs in the new assembly are to give some justification. In the proposal for a law on transmission, regulator and operator of the system, el. Energy in BiH, i.e. on the entire package of laws, therefore, at the state and entity level, working groups worked with consultants to mention counterpart Tošić from the resolution ministry for a long time. During the course of time, an institutional package is regulated to say markets, i.e. laws that regulate the market el. Energy in BiH, in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. existing laws and competences of different levels of government. Thus the transmission of the system operator etc. the independent system operator at the state level of production and distribution are regulated by entity laws at the entity level. Both levels of government have their own institutions. At the state level, it is the Commission, or Derk or an independent system operator, and it is an electropensic company. At the entity level, institutions are competent and together with the regulation of the entire market of el. Energy has been determined by the schedule of existing institutions. I would like, in particular, to apostrophe of the role of the Derk, or the Commission of Sarajevo headquarters, precisely for the reasons of the merger with the resolution minister responsible for establishing the basic policies, i.e. the principle of energy policy. Fully respecting the argument we heard from MPs, especially from the area, i.e. the region of Tuzlan, as well as the timely argumentation of lawmakers from Herzegovina. I think the total schedule of institutions that regulate el. the energy, i.e. intended for the realisation of the electricity market. energy, i.e. the establishment of adequate institutions for the implementation of these laws, that the overall timetable leaves enough space for areas that are particularly apostropheeded as areas of production of el. Energy shall also be a space for the headquarters of the relevant entity institutions, which are competent to produce el. Energy. They're not state institutions. I, to that extent, suggest that this law, or Derek's seat, remains as regulated by the existing law otherwise, I think it will cause a lot of other problems. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7693	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Sead Avdić. After that, I'll take a word for it, Mr. Špirić, but I'd ask him to give me a word, because you've already said it before, you know. Well, then you're right after Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7694	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is good that Mrs. Ex-Minister from the last call tried to justify staying simple and not to adopt this law amending the Law on Apparatus. Energy, transmission of el. Energy. These arguments, absolutely do not stand and in this context it is necessary to understand what Selim said this is a complex state community in the system of government we know how we function. On the other hand, the Ministry of Energy and Industry, where it should be located. According to the Federation government's decision, it is in Mostar, and it has not moved to Mostar, which does not work in Mostar, it is a problem of the federal government's functioning. Which means that the argument to be closer to the ministry is absolutely a missed investment. Absolutely necessary, necessary to demonstrate the demonopolization of the el. the systems in BiH and locate the operator el. Energy on transmission of els. Energy in Tuzlo. 64% 764 megawatts... coal mines, carbon concentration is in the area of northeastern Bosnia, so it's absolutely necessary to show a degree of tolerance and respect in terms of decentralisation of what we're talking about, simply transferring el. Energy, with more transmissions of el. energy is part of not only BiH Europe, this part, simply Europe, which means we are an integral part of it. There is absolutely no reason why you listed Mrs. Minister, and in this context, I think we really need to easily locate an el-transmission operator. Energy in Tuzlo. I'd like to ask that we agree on that and, yes, we simply disagree on certain elements, ex-minister, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7695	There, there's no need. Replica, good Azra, please welcome Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7696	Please, I am now discussing here as a member of this House. So I don't show up as an ex-minister, maybe just because I was a little bit more directed by nature. The Resort Ministry, if you've read the state's law on the transmission of els. Energy to determine energy policy is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Entity laws have established energy ministries, regardless of what they are called entity authorities for the area of competence relating to production and distribution. I will remind you that, in accordance with the agreement and with the representatives, i.e. the chairman, or prime ministers of both Entitive governments, an independent system operator, already established here in Sarajevo and functioning as ZEKC, has been set up. An electricity transmission company based in Banja Luka and a Sarajevo-based regulatory commission, precisely because of a link with a resorient ministry that determines energy policy, that is, the foreign trade ministry. 38 Entity laws have established a different layout of the institution and what you spoke of as a resolute Ministry of Energy in the Federation, I think your debate would be more located on federal institutions, i.e. the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7697	Thank you, Azra. Mr. Sead Avdić. This would come in response to a replica. Here you go. Just one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7698	poslanik Hadžiahmetović forgets one fact that the privatisation of Elektroprivreda BiH is envisaged. Privatisation of the electricity sector, i.e. the economy in RS, means an argument that the foreign trade ministry is engaged in energy policy and that it will create something in the BiH state, absolutely missed. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7699	Thank you. Sir, I apologize to Mr Špirić, the representative of the Council of Ministers is asking for a word. We are obliged to give them the word, if you respect this. Mr. Reuf Hadžibegić, Assistant Minister of Energy at the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7700	I'll try very briefly to give one cut since I co-ordinated the team to prepare that bill. In law on el. The energy for the state level was about three years old. The team included representatives of the state ministry, both resolution ministries, all three electricity industries, the international community headed by the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the UESEID iconsultants, who were all involved in activities related to the definition of the electricity sector. After I said three years of work, we were able to come up with a compromise solution, which, unfortunately, is not nearly the solution this country should have. I'll just give an example. The power sector is divided to say in two responsibilities the transmission system is in charge of BiH's rule of law. Production and distribution are at entity level. Three laws have been passed in this context, which is not available in any country in this region. One on state level, two on entity level. The laws define the organisational structure of these sectors and within that we have again solutions, which are absolutely nowhere to exist and that is: the Regulatory Commission at the state level for the needs of the transmission system, the Regulatory Commission for Distribution and Production at the entity level. So two more regulatory commissions. Independent transmission system operator at state level, independent system two operators, independent operator for entity level. A portable, one-of-a-kind transmission company at state level. When we take that constitution of that sector, which, by the way, is one of, to say the strategic sectors for BiH, because there are only two countries in the Southeast European region that export el. Energy, one of which Bulgaria will soon be in a situation to also import, as it is obliged to close a nuclear power plant, is simply incredible to create a system that is, absolutely, not able to function. So, I've only told you what an organisational structure it is that we have a regulatory commission, let's say for a transmission system, we have part in Sarajevo, part in Banja Luka. 39 For distribution and production we have in Mostar, we have in Banja Luka, so in fact all the bodies that should function uniformly will be scattered throughout the country. Furthermore, I would like to stress here, the Regulatory Commission, its basic function is to cover, i.e. the work of controlling, defining the work of an independent operator system. Therefore, not the end-user, i.e. the producer, in particular in this case, if it is Tuzla, means the production capacity, which exists in the Tuzla region. It is directly competent and controls international trade and controls the work of an independent system operator i.e. The output that is located here in Sarajevo, so its activity is in fact 90% focused on communication with the country inside the Ministry of Foreign Trade as a carrier for transferable concepts of the development of the transmission system and, at the same time, with an independent system operator and, thirdly, with international institutions and organisations in the field of regulation, which exist at the level of the region and the wider region, means, including Europe. I'm asking you a question now. What will happen to our system, with our advantages in this sector, if we know that there is such a structure of the system, where, absolutely, everything is completely divided. This is sector organization in terms of regulation of an independent operator, distribution, production, transmission, I'm just wondering how the system is going to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7701	I thank the representative of the Council of Ministers. Sir, you don't have it with him, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7702	Ladies and gentlemen, here's to not getting upset with fellow Bešlagić, I'm going to try to help him, I think any attempt to give an explanation in the way it's given me is increasingly convincing that the House of Peoples has made a good decision and that here should be decided and the seat set in Tuzla. The story of how international experts have determined and how they cannot go beyond that, then puts this unnecessarily into Parliament so that we can plead. I remember stories like that where it's said it can't. It's like this. Why? They said international experts. I must say that BiH, i.e. the RS and the Federation, is in charge of $20m each to pay international experts in privatising strategic enterprises. God forbid those effects are seen quickly by the citizens. The finding that something would have to be physically related to the ministry in order to be successful in this country as we're told is a bad finding. Then how about the other systems that don't have physical connections? So, in order for something to be closer to the ministry, it could also be a success for the BiH state level and I think that, since the Commission of this Parliament has made a decision from 4 to 1 now I am asking if we are holding our commission's position or if, somewhere in the meantime, the agreement of the representatives of the individual parties broke. Which, if we don't stick to their position, I think we should put together the first and second reading and today make a decision in the same form as the House of Peoples to make this law applicable and make those who tell us that it's not good to do well under the law. So, this DER commission is being located where Parliament takes its stand. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7703	I thank Mr. Špirić. Wait a minute, Seade. Selim Bešlagić was looking for a false quote. A man should get his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7704	I really can't understand anything. We are told here that this is the State Agency Regulatory Agency, but that there are explanations that we have two regulatory agencies to produce by entity. If we're discussing entity regulatory agencies here, then let's get out of the way. I don't want to make a statement about it at all. This is the State Regulatory Agency for the Production of El. Energy. So, please, I can't understand the example and the principle of the story that it can't work when it's being passed on in the world of information in a million seconds, and we're going to drive to Tuzla and back. Is that what you think we're doing, then there's nothing. So, please, we have a decision of the House of Peoples, we have the Commission's opinion, here to make further comments and I'll just say one more thing. If it logs again, please Termoelectrica Ugljevik, Tuzla Termoelectrica, when these two are added, that's over 70% of the production of el. Energy. It doesn't really make sense, and who else tells me that the international community, let's ask the international community where the thermoelectric power plants are, if they hit me with the head cut.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7705	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić. Replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7706	I welcome that the assistant minister has brought us out to meet, simply confronts the structure of the system in BiH, but I want to warn, so they are incorrectly stating that, if so, is the transmission operator el. The energy from Sarajevo moves to Tuzla that there will be an enhanced division of the system. It absolutely doesn't stand. In the world of email information, Internetization, it's really uninvited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7707	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is not as simple as some try to present and I am trying to, in fact, understand all the subtlety and all the weight of this issue, in the way Mr. Hadžibegić explained by the Council of Ministers' representative here. I don't mind that certain agencies, the state-owned commissions are placed in other BiH cities, so not all of them in Sarajevo. But it shouldn't be done the way it's done. This should be done in an organized and premeditated way. We have an executive body of government called the Council of Ministers and it is duty to take care of that. I am not a supporter that, when one of us falls from some parts of the plan, it might be affirmative for one of us to try to dislocate some of the institutions from Sarajevo to do just that. This is the situation we had with the Commission for concessions in the People's Smoke, of course, where it was going, so one MP suggested it there in the House of Nature. The whole story was being told and, of course, given the findings of then relations in the House of Nations, it was over. I have no objection to this commission being placed in Tuzla. But it was supposed to work and should be rusted in an organized and planned way. You need to make a plan, not how anyone gets smart. One MP at the House of Peoples, Mr. Divković of the SDP, in the last meeting of the House of Peoples, submitted 41 amendments to this law. Prior to that, the law had passed in the House of Representatives, and in the House of Peoples, the way it passed with its headquarters here in Sarajevo, the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly voted that Sarajevo, therefore, had accepted the Council of Ministers' proposal. We won't speak where the seat is, the Council of Ministers' proposal accepted. After that, for these reasons, the initiative is launched and the bill is submitted. I am not in favour of such an approach, and that is why I will vote against this law today which amends the Law on the Regulatory and Transfer System El. Energy. This is a very important question. The issue of agency headquarters, commissions, institutions to approach the issue in this way. This requires an organised approach by all institutions to address the issue in this way. This requires an organised approach by all BiH institutions that take care of it rather than one MP to submit. I have no objection to the MP's submission of the bill, but one MP submits and then lobbyings start in Parliament on one side or the other, and then matches start between MPs who will score more points in a particular environment or not. Don't just convince me that someone loves Tuzla more than I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7708	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7709	I just want a brief comment on centralization, decentralisation. So it's a principle question. When the BiH state has minimum institutions, functions, which normal auctions will have, or when cantons and entities give the BiH state what is necessary to give it then we can discuss decentralisation. This country is being pre-centralised.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7710	I thank Mr. Belkić. If no one ever answers their word again, we're going to vote. I ask you who is to adopt this law in the first reading? Who's in? Count the votes. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who are the abstentions? Thank you. Give me the results. From the Federation of BiH, I ask MPs who is for this law, from the Federation of BiH? From the RS, I ask who's in favor of this law. Thank you very much. Give me the results. Don't apologize, and you've made so many remarks to me about the Rules of Procedure and you were wrong. You don't have to apologize. I understand you perfectly, Mr. Špirić. 36 MPs joined the vote, 20 voted for 10 voted against, 6 MPs were abstentioned. The law has received general parliamentary support. Eight MPs voted from the Federation of BiH for the law, it takes 10. Republika Srpska's 12 vote required 5 laws were not given an entity majority from the Federation of BiH and is going to be agreed. We're moving on with our work. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. The proposal for a bill on amendments to the Law, i.e. we move to the 10th point of the agenda. 42 Ad.10. The proposed law on the queen of the emigrants of BiH – the first reading of the draft law to the Parliamentary Assembly was delivered on 4 October 2002. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 31.12.2002. The committee responsible for human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum. May I have your attention, please? The report was delivered on December 4, 200. Debate and decision-making in the first reading pursuant to Article 95 Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Špirić Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7711	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know that BiH has long been working to prepare this legislative project. There have been more attempts at failed meetings to reach this law. But the Council of Ministers came up with this legislative proposal, which, unfortunately, exudes various kinds of inconsistency that a legal project cannot endure. I'll tell you, so in Article 4. The emigrants' mother is registered with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, thus gaining legal personality. Article 14 states, oversight of the legality of the work of the emigrant queen is carried out by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and what is particularly important in Article 11 of the responsibility of the two ministries over the queen of the emigrants, which there is no need, if a description of its mission is known. Article 11. Skuština is the highest organ of the emigrant queen and consists of 15 members, one-third of which are representatives of the diaspora appointed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think the better solution here is to appoint him Parliament, the Council of Representatives on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, because this is the Emeritus Mother. So it would be good, ultimately appointed by Parliament, and Article 15 is controversial. The existing Mother of BiH, therefore, will coordinate her organisation and activities and statutes with the last registration of 2.06., etc. This is, therefore, just an extension of the continuity of that queen of emigrants. Anyone who is well aware of the practice of the diaspora and knows the activities of the diaspora according to what is called the DKP network of BiH outside knows that this member is not good, and therefore I think that the principles on which this law is to be made to try, so let's say that the diaspora congress in Vogosca which has quietly caused less or more comments that are not in line with this law give me the right that the Council of Ministers must deal better with this legal project or make a new legislative undertaking. This is also a legal project that represents the continuity of the former Council of Ministers' activities and I think that this issue should be given more attention and that a better legal project should be made. Secondly, I am not prepared to participate in the adoption of legislative projects saying that financial means are needed for realisation, but that the proposaler of the Council of Ministers does not know what they are. The promoter must know at least the indicative amount of funds that requires the implementation of both this and all other legal projects, because we are just now talking about the rebalancing of the Budget. On such proposals by the Council of Ministers, when it comes to the laws and new ministries, even the psychic Manda cannot predict the size of the budget of BiH institutions. So, I'll be against the principles on which this bill was written. I'm not about the Council of Ministers to open a debate, I'm not, therefore, against making a better legal solution. Thank you very much. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7712	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7713	Fellow MPs, for the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, is not a controversial constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and that is what I think we should decide today and I have submitted amendments to this law and we will discuss it when the time comes, so I see no reason to hold a debate on certain members of this law today, but whether he has or does not have a constitutional basis. Clearly, this law has a constitutional basis, and that is why we will support this law in our first reading. Of course, when the second reading comes, we will make our views known.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7714	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7715	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, given the phase we are in when it comes to this law, I will say that in principle, because of the principles that are incorporated into the text of the law as we now have, it is just like the approach, because it affirms integration processes and in this very important area for BiH and its citizens in the world. Without the intention of mentioning the name, but I am surprised by those who and how they are inclined to criticise alleged national parties and national policies, and very much to say plastically and clearly show that whenever, in fact, solutions are offered that will, in fact, create what will bring people together, then show some other light in practical moves. I hope that we, though, let's say, strictly on the legal side, see here quite a number of disadvantages in the text that would fluctuate and that will be possible in the amendment phase, but in principle looking at this is a good approach, which, in fact, shows that institutions that are not political character, such as, let's say, the Outcast Mother, who lives now, which is registered in '62. years, etc. and which should, simply strengthen, which needs to be revived and brought to life, in an appropriate way, integrate other associations of specific species that have dealt with this problem, and in terms of BiH and affirm and show that we want to take care of all BiH citizens abroad, achieve co-operation with those who want such anchovies, but what principle can we offer other than one such concept, which will show everyone that we care about contacts and communication with our citizens abroad care about all of us. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7716	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate, and we're moving past the announcement. I ask you who is it that we adopt the law on the BiH Emigrants Matika in the first reading, so the principles of the law to adopt? Who's in? Thank you, Lip. Who's against it? Abstained? Give me the results. We'll go to the entities right away. 44 I ask from the Federation of BiH who's in favour? RS who's in? Thank you. Now give me the results. 37 MPs. 30 voted in favour – against 1-6 abstentions. There is general parlmentary support. By entities from Federation 23 for RS 6 for. Law adopted in the reading process. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in: (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, (b) the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, (c) the Central-European Initiative, and (d) the Interparliamentary Union At the joint session of the Collegiate of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, criteria have been established for selecting delegations of the Parlmentary Assembly. As you know from the House of Representatives, we have selected three members of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We have been informed from the People's House that they have selected one member and two deputies and agreed by two colleges, which is a business provision to establish the criteria by both colleges of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We today need to elect one member and three deputy members of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Extended College agreed, i.e. it was proposed that this House be elected as a member of the delegation from this House, in addition to the already selected members who were accredited there elect Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and elect the gentlemen: Sead Avdić from this home, Ivo Lozančić and Tihomir Gligorić. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Živković, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7717	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, criteria for the selection of these delegations were also on the Foreign Affairs Commission when I expressed my view that these criteria should be at least the way they were in the previous meeting. I asked for a list of delegations to be delivered in the last meeting of this high house so that, at least, it could compare relations, or those criteria. I've got it and as far as I can tell, these criteria have been violated at the expense of the opposition, and I want to say it in public. A delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in five members does not have any of the opposition and, if there was one in the previous meeting of the opposition. It was replaced to put someone from the opposition in the deputy members, which I can't figure out as if it were the same thing. All three members are out of position in the delegation and the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. In a delegation for the Central European Initiative, all three members are from a position, i.e., I do not have a list here from the House of Peoples, but, given my findings since there is no opposition in the House, at least in front of the Serb and Bosniak representatives of the people, I believe they will be filled out from part of the position. On the other hand, probably because we have adopted the Law on Equality and Gender Equality in BiH today, a beautiful party did not ask for its legal option, which will come very quickly and take effect in this country, where it says in Article 15 that, for the sake of equal representation of half the participation of women in the authorities at all levels, including judicial, legislative and executive powers, as well as all other public services, commissions and committees, including the participation of bodies representing the state name-level, will generally maintain a percentage of women's population according to the latest BiH census, as far as I know it is more than 51%, ladies you have the opportunity, I will vote for you, asking to be at least 50% of women. In addition, let me just say, we will send a letter to the Parliamentary Assembly and to all these organisations that have provided us with desirable criteria, which should be respected in this Parliament and that delegations are thus educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7718	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Križanović Jozo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7719	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I simply have an obligation today to present to this house a dissatisfaction in front of the SDP Club when it comes to the process itself, to say the proposals of our delegation in international organisations that are on your benches today. In fact, I have to express my dissatisfaction with the concept of these delegations, because they, in fact, do not achieve their basic goal, which is to present this Parliament in international organisations as our delegations. This is where my colleague Živković used to talk about it. I will not repeat, but I would particularly like to apostrophe to our delegation to the Council of Europe Parliament. Look, as far as I know there is in this House, from at least one third of the opposition, and in the five-member delegation of our Parliament, therefore, none of the five members, or any opposition representative, and therefore I express my public position that we cannot support such proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7720	I thank Križanović. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. I ask you, for a delegation from this House to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović is elected and for the deputy members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Sead Avdić, Ivo Lozančić and Tihomir Gligorić. Who's in? Did you make the choice? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. By entities. From the Federation who's in favour? Just pick it up a little faster. From RS who's in favour? I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly chose these remaining members of the delegation in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with 25 MPs voting in favour – 6 were against, 2 were abstentions. The Federation of BiH 18 was in favour. The RS 7 was in favour. So there is both a general and an entity parliamentary majority so that this delegation is chosen. I only point out that colleges 46 took care of the criteria they were obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure to take account of. We move under b) b) Delegation to the OSCE Organisation for European Security and Co-operation In this delegation from our home we need to choose one member and two are elected from the House of Peoples, this is such an agreement to satisfy the structure and homes and is proposed by the Extended College to choose Mrs Sead Palavrić as a member of the delegation in the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation. I'm asking you who's that? I'm sorry, I'm opening the debate before the vote. Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7721	Since there is no repentance after the battle. In truth, I am sorry that I just voted for that delegation to the Council of Europe. Why? Why did I come out here for a pay phone, the reason is to ask Mrs Palavrić if she accepts this, because I have seen that since the four envoys mentioned earlier, two have been against this delegation being. So they were against themselves, so here I suggest to the president that he in future asks the MPs that we propose in these delegations they accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7722	Okay. Thank you. Right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7723	I absolutely support Mrs Palavrić's choice, but let it be said if she wants to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7724	Okay, Mr. Zorić accepts all that. So thank you. I'm closing the argument if no one answers their word again? Mr. Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7725	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman, I think one fundamental error in selecting these members has you checked that these members are speaking by chance some of the foreign languages that are needed in presenting such a parliamentary part?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7726	Thank you, Mr. Potočnik. It took care, of course, of how much it could have been taken care of. My principle was that in these delegations, mostly people who know one language, one of the world's languages, but the proposals are what they are, it was my answer to your question, whether to the end it was a matter of the second question. I ask you who is it that Mrs. Palavrić is elected to the OSCE? Thank you. Who's against it? And thank those who are against it. Abstained? And to them, too. 47 per entity. From the Federation who's in favour? Thank you. From RS who's in favour? 33 voted – 25 for – 7 against – 1 abstention. There is the support of the House Parliament as a whole. From Federation 18 for – from RS 7 for. There is also an entity majority and I realize that we have chosen Mrs Palavrić as a member of our parliamentary delegation in the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation. c) A delegation to the Central European Initiative On the Enlargement College has agreed to elect two from the House of Representatives to this delegation. She has three members. One will leave the House of People, two MPs. It is proposed to be Momčilo Novaković and Filip Andrić. We're going to vote. Who's that? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I ask the messengers to follow. From the Federation who's in favour? By entities. From the Federation by entity. Who's in? From RS who's in favour? Thank you. 34 MPs voted, or are in the room, 28 is in favour – 1 is against – abstention 1. From Federation 18 for – from RS 10 for. There's also home support in whole and per entity. I find that we have elected Momčilo Novaković and Filip Andrić to the delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Central European Initiative. d) The delegation for the Interparliamentary Union of the College proposes, the Extended College to elect: Felić Hazim, Sopta Ruža, Jovanović Miloš, Jusufović Munib, Špirić Nikola, Bešlagić Selim, Kunić Petar and Moranjkić Muhamed. I ask you who this delegation is to choose? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? There isn't. 36 is present. 33 voted in favour – against the vote of 1 abstention, in this majority we have both the general majority of the House and the entity majority, so there is no need for an entity statement. I find that we have elected members of our delegation to the interparliamentary union. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad.12. The election of members of the dom's committee, kao you know, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has suspended Mr. Niki Lozančić's term of office because of his election on a new duty. The election commission granted the mandate to Mr Jović Ivo Miri, who today, or yesterday, took up parliamentary duty. I am now asking the HDZ Club if there are other proposals or if Mr Jović will assume the obligations of members in the Constitutional and Administrative Commission that Mr Lozančić had. Is this how it is? Here, I agree with the stenogram that Mr. Vinko Zorić, president of the HDZ Club, has said from his post that he is a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and a member of 48 Administrative Commission, instead of Mr. Niko Lozančić, the HDZ Club in both committees proposes Mr. Ivo Mir Jović. We're going to vote. Who is it to choose from these two committees of Mr. Jović? May I have your attention, please? Thank you. Who's the pressure on that? Are there any abstentions? I find the House unanimously with 35 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, to be a member of the ustavno-pravni and Administrative Commission, Mr Ivo Mir Jović. Ad.13. The appointment of a member in the Interim Commission to prepare a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives instead of Mr Nikola Špirić, Nikola Špirić, informed us that he is resigning from the Interim Commission for the Preparation of Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I ask you to suggest, it would be good for the SNSD to propose a member of this committee. Do you have a suggestion? Any suggestions for anyone? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7727	I propose that Petar Kunić be proposed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7728	Okay. Any new suggestions? We're going to vote. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that Mr. Petar Kunić is elected to this commission? Thank you. Do you mind? Don't argue from the scene. Are there any abstentions? I find that the House unanimously with 35 votes in favour – without votes against and without abstentions chose Mr Kunić as a member of this committee for the preparation of the Rules of Procedure. Ad.14. The proposal for a decision on the election procedure of four members of the BiH Public Red Television Board, according to the provisions of the Law on Public Radio Television Service, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should appoint four members of the Management Board of this media house. The law also attributes a procedure that necessarily implies a public competition. The way in which both homes conduct procedures should be decided. At the BiH Parliamentary Assembly meeting, the Collegiate Assembly agreed to form a joint commission, which will implement the necessary procedure and prepare a proposal for candidates to be appointed to the Management Board for their homes. You have received a proposal for a decision on the selection procedure of members of the BiH Public Rid Television Service Management Board. In the preparation of this proposal for a decision, a debate was held at a session of the Extended College of the House as well as at a joint session of the Colleges at home. The House of Peoples adopted this decision and appointed its three members to the Joint Commission for the Implementation of the Procedure. We are now having a debate on the text of the draft decision. I will tell you right away, we will vote on this in particular, that the extended College of the House of Representatives has proposed that they be appointed from each home by three members of the Joint Commission and that from our home, from the House of Representatives of the Parlment of BiH be gentlemen: Vinko Zorić, Nijaz Duraković and Nikola Kragulj. 49 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the text of the decision itself. Who is it to adopt a decision on the election procedure of four members of the Public Radio Television Service Management Board of BiH? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that unanimously with 35 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we adopt this decision. We move on to the appointment of our three members to this joint committee, I said to the gentlemen: Vinko Zorić, Nijaz Duraković and Nikola Kragulj. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There aren't any. Who's being held back. Two abstentions. I find that in this joint committee we have elected these three MPs by a majority of 33 votes in favour, without votes against and two abstentions. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. The termination of the parliamentary term to Mr Izet Žigić (a) The proposal for a decision to determine the termination of the term of office of Vi Zante that Mr Izet Žigić was elected minister in the Federation of BiH government and that the function is not compatible with the post of MPs. Mr. Žigić has also resigned on parliamentary duty, and we should formally adopt a decision establishing the termination of Mr. Žigić's parliamentary mandate, so that the Electoral Commission could assign a second candidate from the BiH Party list. There's no need here, I think for discussion. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to make this decision? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I agree that, unanimously with 34 votes in favour – 1 MP went to talk on his cell phone, and with 35 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have reached a decision on the termination of the term of office of Mr Žigić and b) The choice of members of the Administrative Commission instead of Izet Žigić The Club of Members of the BiH Party in place, You are looking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7729	Mr. Chairman, I support this under b) just to correct it, perhaps it was necessary to intervene when determining the President of the Administrative Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-05-0.u7730	Thank you for your suggestion, Mr. Zorić. You've taken care of it. I'm glad you're taking care of it, too. We will choose a member and it is recommended that he be in the place that Mr. Žigić had, which is the place of president, and you will formally execute the choice and on schedule it belongs to the SBiH. 50 I have received notice that it is Mr. Munib Jusufović. If I got a good notice, I'll put it to a vote. Who is it that Mr. Munib Jusufović is elected a member with a recommendation to be president of the Administrative Commission? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that, unanimously with 35 votes for no votes against and no abstentions, we have elected Mr. Munib Jusufović as member, or president of the Administrative Commission of this House. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. Ad.16. Giving consent to ratification a) The Treaty between the governments of the Balkan countries on economic scientific technical co-operation in the area of agriculture Does anyone want to speak? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to give consent to ratify this contract? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I understand that, unanimously with 35 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have given consent to ratify the treaty between the Balkan countries' governments on economic and scientific technical solidarity in the area of agriculture. (b) I am opening a debate between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? I agree that, unanimously with 35 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have agreed to ratify the trade agreement between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. c) Agreement on a five-year development co-operation programme 2002 – I am opening a debate between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously with 35 votes in favour – without votes against and without abstentions gave consent to ratifying the Agreement on a five-year development co-operation programme 2002-2006 between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of BiH. d) Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives with the aim of detecting cargo debate. I'm infatuating raps. I'm asking you who's in? Who's in? Thank you. 51 Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously gave the consent to ratification and the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives with the goal of racing with 35 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions. e) Convention on the Security of UN personnel and associated staff I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you for is so we can give consent to ratification? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any others who can handle it? Thank you. I find that in unanimity with 35 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, we have given consent to the ratification of the UN Security Convention and associated staff. f) I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's annoying? I find that the BiH Parlmentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously with 35 votes in favour, with no votes against or without the abstentions gave consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the control of terrorist bombings. Ladies and gentlemen, this way the agenda and the 10th session of the House of Representatives are exhausted. I close her work in 14 hours and 50 minutes. Thank you for your response. Live and sound.
