ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1018	Gentlemen, honourable envoys, MPs, your Excellencys, honored guests, pessimists of public information means, I welcome all present. Before Mr Mustafa Pamuk assumes the chairmanship of the session, let me give you a brief overview of the work of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional session was held on 31.01.2003. From 31.01.2003 to today, 11 sessions were held at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this period, the People's House: passed 32 laws in the second reading; ratified 19 agreements; 7 conventions; 7 protocols; 7 contracts; 1 memorandum; gave consent to cancelling 3 international agreements; adopted 6 reports; 13 conclusions; 14 decisions; 3 information and 2 acts. At the House, 20 parliamentary questions were asked and 14 answers were received. I personally believe that we can be satisfied with our work so far in the last eight months. I think dom has completed all the tasks set up, and I think with today's session we're going to round up this eight-month period of work very successfully. I now invite Mr Mustafa Pamuk to take the lead session and, of course, wish him a lot of success in his work as we all do. Mr Pamuk, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1019	Thank you, I would like to thank Mr. Jukić, on behalf of the Presidency of this House, and I certainly hope on behalf of all MPs. I will try to keep the College doing quality and good as it did at the time while the chairman of the College was Mr. Jukić. The college is a joint organ and in the next period, and in the past, Jukić has acted only as what the primus interpares say and I hope that I will try to keep it that way in front of us and remain that way. So all decisions and all that College 2 has to do in one equal relationship, it will do it now, and I think it is a guarantee for the successful work of this Parliament and for the next period. Here I am thanking my colleagues once again and thanking all the MPs, or all the delegates, who have helped the College do this quality work. Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, all of you fine, welcome and open the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 12th session of the House of Nations, 13 delegates are present. Of which 5 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people. Mr. Milojević and zrno are absent, justified. Since we have a quorum, we can make an important decision. So we can work. For the 12th session, I suggest the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Request to consider draft law amending the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 4. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 5. Request to observe the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the House of Representatives, 6. Request for consideration of the Immunity Act under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 7. Request for consideration of the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations — Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 8 / 8 A request to consider the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of Bosnia and Herzegovina as planned. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 10. Proposal for a Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 11. Proposal for a law on court fees, namely, eleventh because the proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading - the proposal of the Council of Ministers, 3 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in the Customs Area – Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on International Transport of Passengers and Goods in Road Traffic – Proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on social security – Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments – Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Republic of China on the promotion and protection of investments – Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Proposal for a Decision on the ratification of the Development Loan Agreement (Cretit 3779 BOS) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – Proposer of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Development Credit of the Technical Assistance Project for Social Security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association – Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey on Social Insurance – Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Co-operation in the field of culture – Proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the co-operation of small and happy enterprises – Proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 23. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility on 31.12.2002, 24. Discussion of the proposal for a document "Safeguard Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina" - Proposed by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 25. Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategy for implementing Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and Action Plan, 26. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's evaluation in GRECO, 27. Report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 28. Conclusion on the CIPS project. 4 I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Is anyone answering their word? So there's no discussion on the agenda. Who's to accept this kind of read agenda? So, unanimous 13 votes is for. There's no need to ask who's against or who's abstention. Thank you very much. The first item of the agenda is Ad. 1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to the last question have been received by the Croatian delegates club, are delegates satisfied with the answers? And there were no other answers. Here you are, delegates from the Croatian Nationality Club. No Niko is answering, I will, will I, please, ask Filipović, will I consider the Croatian delegates' club satisfied with the answer? Satisfied, thank you very much. Is there any delegates' questions, please? Here you go, sir. Mr. Boško Šiljegović, I'm sorry to announce.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1020	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, I have tried to find somewhere suitable in the name of the Club of Serbian Delegates, I would like to convey the conclusion that Mr. President Velimir Jukić has successfully represented this high house, successfully led it, and I also wish to Mr. Pamuk to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1021	Thank you, MP's question, Mr. Limov. Thank you, please, for listening to Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1022	Dear Mr. President and Vice-President, distinguished fellow envoys, representatives of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community, respected guests, representatives of public information funds, ladies and gentlemen, at our last session held on 2 May, I asked the envoy's question concerning the declaration or resolution entitled "Bought domestic". Since the College has not answered my envoy's question, and on the agenda has not provided for us to do this work today, which is not a respected deadline set out in Article 121, I ask that this item of the agenda be placed in the draft agenda at the next session of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will personally draw up a motion for a resolution and deliver it to all the envoys and I would also ask the committees to consider this proposal which I will also deliver to them. 5 Here you are, Mr. Chairman, my proposal for a agenda item or a request for a agenda item, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, Article 121 and based on Article 114. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1023	Thank you very much, I'm sorry about this one on behalf of the College. I'm going to say that this is a little bit maybe we, we thought at the next session this, we'd have an answer to this question, but it won't bother that this one, too, to treat this issue as a part of the agenda and we'll put it in the agenda at the next session as it stands in the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you very much. If there's more, here's Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1024	Mr. Chairman, I congratulate you first of all on your election for the House of Peoples chairman and I wish you successful work, and I think your work so far has also been successful. I hope it will be as it is in the future. I went out to renew one question that I asked before the Four skuština and I wasn't satisfied, it wasn't exactly that question. It's about a lady who asked to find a pattern N4 for her late husband. After 2 Assembly, I was given some answer, which I was not satisfied with, so I suggested again, but whether the Kolegijum did not consider it or not, that I asked to be answered again, so I gave myself the freedom to put it back in writing today and ask that it be answered as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1025	Thank you very much, I hope that's okay. Is there any further, answering any further questions? So we think that this item of the agenda is also exhausted and that we can move to the next item of the agenda, that is to Ad. 2. The adoption of the record from the 11th session of the House of the Peoples Does anyone come forward? Thank you very much. Who's for the adoption of the 11th-session record? So, the 11th session record was adopted, unanimously. Thank you very much, so there's no need for 13 votes for it. 6 Moving to the second item of the agenda is Ad.3. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Association and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers Is there a need to hear the Proposer and does he have a Proposer? I don't think there's any proposal from the Council of Ministers. He stays in Parliament and I will take this opportunity to ask my colleagues. We have one view that there will be no discussion of the agenda points in which there are no rapporteurs and no proposings, the proposing reports, in this case, of a man from the Council of Ministers who will explain this. Who's in favor of discussing this or taking it off the table, about this? Who's up for this discussion, taking this off the agenda? Please, I'm sorry. I want to say that because one thing, we have agreed that no points will be discussed, please, the agenda points for which there are no rapporteurs. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1026	Dear fellow envoys, I suggest that I remain naturally in that position that we do not consider the agenda item for which there is no authorising officer or representative, but I suggest that, if possible, we move this agenda point and make contact with the proposing and try to ensure that he comes here and that we discuss this at the end of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1027	Thank you very much. I'm in favour of adopting Mr. Lim's proposal, and who's in favour? Thank you very much. So, unanimously, I'm asking the secretary, it's not unanimous. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? And who's against it? We have therefore adopted a proposal, the conclusion that this item of the agenda is to be skipped, that is to say to postpone and establish a link with the Council of Ministers, or to suggest that someone come to refer this. I would like to ask this person who will point out the link to the Council of Ministers to announce that all the points that are now on the agenda will be removed from the agenda unless the people of the Council of Ministers come to explain. Thank you very much. 7 Let’s go to the fourth point of the agenda Ad. 4. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers No Council, has a good one. Please, Mr. Tošić is present from the Council of Ministers and he will tell us.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1028	Mr. Chairman and I join the congratulations and the desire for successful work and for your chairmanship of this House, the most significant House, the House of Peoples, according to me. I welcome all MPs and MPs, and I want us to continue in this trend of successful work and the adoption of these laws. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law was maintained by the provisions of Article 3(3) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which stipulates that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have foreign and trade policy and, within the framework of the policy and import and export of arms and military equipment. The adoption of the law annexed was initiated by the Working Group on the Implementation of Laws on the Import and Export of Weapons and Military Equipment, composed of representatives of OHR, OSC, KAFA.o, Permanent Committee on Military Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, in order to bring that law into line with the law in the ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina administrations. It is important here to note that part of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications has been transferred by this law to the Ministry of Security and therefore it is necessary to implement the proposed amendments to the law, the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina has included criminal provisions also for the cases referred to in Article 14 of this Law. In that sense, here is this, the basic meaning of the change in this Article 1 that instead of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications is replaced by words – the Ministry of Security. Everything else is as good as before. I don't know if there's anything else I need.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1029	Thank you very much, I think that's enough. I am here to say that this law has been passed by the Parliamentary Assembly, because this law is going according to an emergency procedure and there are no amendments and here I am now opening a debate following this presentation by Mr Tošić. Here's Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1030	First, I welcome you all, and I would like to thank and congratulate Mr. Jukić for his successful leadership so far in the past term, and I also want Mr. Pamuk to do the same in the coming months. 8 I hope that it will be so safe and that we will continue a successful continuity, the one who read Mr. Jukić at the beginning of the introduction what we have done so far. That's one thing. Secondly, before I move on to what I came for, I really am interested and I think that we should get in the materials, when the Ministerial Council, or the Resort Ministry, is informed about our agenda and whether it was reported on time and whether they are consciously not coming to our meetings. I want to know for sure what date the report went, the notice from the Secretariat of this House, the Council of Ministers, and that we know where the bullet is, because this isn't the first time that this is happening to us, and I really think that this is a very serious organ, which doesn't deserve the treatment of anyone, not even the Council of Ministers, that we have to take off the agenda point that's on the agenda. I really ask if we can know the exact date when it's the Council of Ministers, whether it's a mistake for us or if it's a mistake for the Council of Ministers. In the future, if Hilmo isn't alone, when I know that they got the notice in time, I'll always be against us moving those agenda points. Please, I'd like to get the work of this house serious. So much for that. And now I'd like to say something about this law. It's clear to me that this is by article 100, I know what it is, what we need to do today, and I'm going to raise my hand to this law. However, I am in the hands of the military industry sector at the Ministry of Defence of the Federation, and the President, the Government of the Federation to the Council of Ministers, where they have very serious objections to this law and that, two are essential and these are the following: it is in fact the following. I will say it in three - four sentences, just to suggest that this home suggests that the Council of Ministers will be able to move very quickly to amend and supplement this law, because if one industry activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina can act quickly and quickly, and that exports can establish this activity quickly, and because it is very much, because I talked to 2-3 experts from this area, I am not an expert of course but I wanted to be interested in it, and people have told me that this is really the essential thing that should be changed in this law. So I came out here to appeal to our home to be not an appeal to Osman as an MP, but to this House to the Council of Ministers very quickly, urgently so to say tomorrow, to initiate an amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1031	Thank you very much, I am obliged to, namely, this Parliament, we are obliged first to declare whether we are in favour of the law being considered under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 9 First let's vote it and then we'll discuss the specifics. I'm in. So 12 is for, here's the law and we passed it. We have therefore adopted a decision on the examination of the law under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure. So now let's talk about the law itself, so I'm opening a debate. Is anyone else answering for word? Well, that's all right. We'll switch that discussion to both. So there's no discussion here. Who's in favor of adopting the law as it is? Thank you very much. So unanimous 12 here is that 12. The law was passed with 12 votes in favour. So we unanimously passed the law. The fifth item of the agenda is
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1032	Can I just perhaps make my suggestion a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1033	I'm sorry, uh, I'm sorry. We had Mr. Osman Brk's proposal to have the Council of Ministers run activities on the amendment and addition of this law as soon as possible. Who's up for such a proposal? Let's see, I think that, always, the Council of Ministers should work on all the laws. So, did you count it? Who's in? We said, well, that's an initiative, that's our initiative, our proposal to the Council of Ministers, yes, thank you very much. 12 votes are in favour. Thank you very much. We're moving on to Ad.5. Request to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer House of Representatives, the Law has been declared by the High Representative, so this is the law declared by the High Representative, he was discussed at the Parliamentary House, at the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives fully adopted him and that is, and we have agreed at some of our next sessions that we will take action to adopt all the laws that the High Representative has passed, so that we can possibly work on them and do them. If we do, I'm opening a debate. Do we have any suggestions? I'm asking that we vote on this law. 10 Who is to adopt this law? To consider here by procedure under article 100 of the apology. 11's in. Who's being held back? 1 abstention. Against? There's no one here. I'm putting this one right now. I'm in the middle of a debate. Do we have any objections? Do we have a discussion on the law? Well, let me tell you, he took it in private, so this guy put it in for us for consideration, he gave it to us. Thank you very much. Who's for the law to be adopted in a text like this? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I've never seen anyone restrained, or against, you're missing. So 13 for, 12 for. The sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Request for consideration of the Immunity Act under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers who is to consider the Law on Immunity, impromptuly requires an examination of the Immunity Act under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – the Pedgler of the Council of Ministers. The law has been declared by the High Representative. First, shall we vote on whether we will consider this law under Rule 100(2) of our Rules of Procedure? Who's in? 11 for. Who's restrained? 1 abstention. And who's against it? There's no one here. So I'm opening a debate about this law. Is anyone answering for the discussion? Niko one's answering. I'm putting the law in this text for a vote. Who's in favor of adopting the law in a text like this? 12 for it. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Niko. So unanimous. 11 The seventh item of the agenda Ad.7. Request for consideration of the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The law was also declared by the High Representative. Who is it that we are considering this law by Article 100(2) of our Rules of Procedure? Hasane and brkati, join the Assembly. 11's in. Who's restrained? 1 abstention. And no one's against it. Thank you very much. I'm putting the law on the table. Who is it for us to adopt this law in this proposed text? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Point eight, Ad. 8. Request for consideration of the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, the Law was also declared by the High Representative. Who's in favor of even discussing this law by an emergency procedure? So, 11 for. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. We're putting the bill on the table, the text of the law on the table. Are there any debaters? There isn't. Who's for the law to be passed in the text that's in front of you? 12 therefore, this law is unanimously passed. Please, Mr. Kebo, excuse me. We've arranged this at this point. Now your law is in order, one break of 20 minutes, you won't mind. It's because of the needs of this house, so we'll take a break for 20 minutes and we'll keep working. Thank you very much. 12 We move to the 9th point of the Ad agenda. [[PAUZA]] Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, first reading, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers of the House of Peoples adopted the request at the last session of 02.09.2003 that the law be considered in a shortened procedure, i.e. under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House. This is the first reading. You've got the law and please be my guest. This law is whether, we've got amendments, ours as far as I know the Constitutional and Legal Commission has received one amendment, adopted it and that amendment is now an integral part of this, this law. The House of Representatives also passed this law into something, this, with some amendments, so after the vote of law, whether if we vote we should choose a commission. That's what we tend to be members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to go to the adoption of this law with the representatives of the House of Peoples. Thank you, that's what I wanted to say, or I had to say about this law. Who's calling for a discussion? So here's what I call Mr. Keba and the name of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers to tell us a few sentences about this law is whether and first to adopt it in the first reading, and then in the second reading and to definitely adopt the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1034	Mr. Chairman, I would like to congratulate you on your election, and I would also like to congratulate you on the successful work of Mr. Jukić, and I would like to welcome the esteemed MPs, or MPs, and to brief you on the content of the changes that have been made to this law. This proposal has been done for a full 8 months, and I think we have analyzed in detail all aspects of the proposed legal solutions. These changes are made to 4 groups of questions. The first strives in a very transparent way to prescribe a procedure for selecting potential users to assist in the reconstruction of housing units. This came as a result of the need to prescribe a transparent procedure at national level because we were witnesses in the past of not transparent spending of budget funds. Other changes are regional centres. So far, it has been such a practice that refugee resolution ministries have formed their offices in other entities and thus have established and assisted the process in the area of another entity. Hence, the idea to form regional centres at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees that would unite all these tasks that entity centres have done so far, as well as the offices of the Arabtiaf on the ground. The provisions of this law show that regional centres of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in Mostar, Banja Luka, Tuzla and Sarajevo will be formed. Third, amendments have been proposed to amend the composition and way of selecting the Commission for the refugees and displaced persons. According to the proposed solutions, the ministry of human rights and refugees will co-ordinate these activities from return and reintegration in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the presence of 13 interested international organisations. Fourthly, what is actually a very big change that we have long expected, the new law provides for the establishment of a return fund. This body was formed by the Council of Ministers' Decision in 2000, but due to certain irregularities in the Decision and the complexity of the structure and financing, however, it is concluded that this important issue must be regulated by law. The main objective is to establish a transparent way of financing the need to return, especially in the housing restitution segment. The establishment of the fund as an independent administrative organisation has been prescribed a way of functioning, decision making, financing and submitting work reports. In addition to the above changes in the new Bill proposal, other solutions are visible that improve the conditions for a peaceful, secure and dignified return of refugees. In the end, I would like to point out that the proposed law does not require additional funds compared to the existing Refugees Act, and displaced persons in BiH. The necessary material financial resources are underprivileged to the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, so they will allocate considerable funds for these changes through future budgetary activities and other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina's government institutions. We believe that the above changes and additions are very important from the aspect of strategic planning and policy realisation from the areas of return of refugees and displaced persons, and guarantees that they are going into continuous and planned action, which would ensure, in a four-year period, the return of all displaced and refugees who are still interested in returning. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present these questions to this distinguished House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1035	Thank you very much, we heard Mr. Keba, since we are now discussing the law in the first reading, are we there talking about the basics and principles for setting this law do we have any more debaters? Do we have any more debaters, excuse me? Who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? Thank you very much. So, how many 13 is for. Furthermore, I suggest we conduct a debate as is said in the second reading. In the second reading, we have for the second reading this amendment of Mr. Halid Genjac, who, please, has been discussed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional Legal Commission, as far as I know, has adopted that amendment and I am putting the text of the law under discussion. Here comes Mr. Jukić's word. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1036	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, in this law we have only received one letter, all of us have come to know him from the OHR and the recommendation or the request that if we can finish this job by the end of this month. And here's what we're doing today with our session and this request, but we fit in and we don't fit in. If we happen to adopt the text of the law in a different text from the one adopted at the House of Representatives, then, according to the Rules of Procedures and our Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, it is envisaged that commissions are formed and that these commissions work together and agree with the texts, because they are adopted differently. In order not to do so, I appeal to the right of Article 89 of our Rules of Procedure, which says in point 3 after the debate begins, the President will apply the new amendments only in the following cases: under (b) when seeking to bring two or more proposals under discussion. I can, and this interpreting that what has been done in the House of Representatives means one new proposal and that we should try to agree here, and therefore I of these amendments II, III and IV and one is identical to ours except in the language section, where only in another way is said that the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees is necessarily a member of this commission, which was also a recommendation and a request. Our amendment that was adopted on our commission is so read and I really think this is just a language meaning formulating the same thing means. And Amendments II, III and IV I think it would be good to adopt them in order to correct the text but not so much to meet this criterion that we adopt texts or that the text adopted at our home is identical to that adopted at the House of Representatives. Here I think that what I've expressed as arguments and reasons, I think it's quite enough and that we can make our work more efficient and faster and I don't think it changes the essence of the text. The law remains the same, we fit into these recommendations that we received and we get the law without commissions and without the need to comply. I think this is a good way, this allows us our Rules of Procedure, and I believe that for this, for this my proposal we will have understanding and a sufficient number of hands to finish the work of this important law and meet both the required conditions and deadlines for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1037	I thank Mr. Jukić, does anyone come forward for a word? Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1038	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, since we will have in the next four years, one six times change on the helm of this home, I would not spend much of my words on it, of course wanting successful work for all of us and for this occasion. And as far as this issue is concerned, I respect the argument of my colleague Jukić completely and I understand her in fact, but we must start by respecting the facts, respecting the Rules of Procedure and the real situation. First of all, I quote a member of the 89th current Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations at 15 points 3 after the debate begins, and the chairman will start by consulting the Vice-Presidents' deputy presidents to respect the new amendments. So, I don't know if the chairman in consultation with the vice president has decided to respect the submission of new amendments. This shall be declared by the President. In cases where new aspects cannot be taken into account by the Commission. No new aspect has occurred which was not known before the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which according to the Rules of Procedure, the Commission is in charge of this law and after which consideration of the Constitutional and Legal Commission ceases to submit amendments other than this situation. The Constitutional and Legal Commission respected the aspect and knew that the House of Representatives had adopted the amendments and had all the amendments that had been adopted. Therefore, constitutional-legal and constitutional-legal committee members individually had in mind the amendments adopted by the House of Representatives and this is not a new fact. In my opinion, it's not a new aspect and it can't be a reason to submit new amendments. Further OHR's suggestion that this law be adopted as soon as possible, including with the amendment that I have submitted and which has been adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, has been known to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives for more than a month. So it's not a new aspect. And that is why I would ask by respecting all the above facts, firstly by predicating the House to declare whether it has respected the new moments for which I have made the argument, in my opinion it is impossible to respect, secondly, that we respect the Rules of Procedure. Thirdly, the law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the situation in which the law is in the procedure in this House is completed, we shall conduct a debate, we shall make a statement after also as the Rules of Procedure provides for a commission which will, of course, be consulted with the commission of adequate representatives of the House of Representatives. The best and most meaningful thing that this home can do to speed up this procedure is to declare the law and that already today, if the law is passed in this or that form, if it is different from the form that is in the House of Representatives, that it is currently appointed by the Commission and that the commission is doing the job. And please, these are the facts very firmly stated in the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think there's room for any other approach with all the wishes and intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1039	Thank you, Mr. Genjac, I must say that by announcing this item of the agenda, I said that if you've accepted this home, that this house has not received an amendment except for Mr. Genjac's amendments and I said, "We're going to need it just as Mr. Genjac here says we're going to form a commission." I respect both the proposal and the other one, so let's see. Thank you very much, sir. So Mr. Jukić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1040	I have here means your opinion and facts, therefore, under b) when trying to agree on two or more proposals in which the debate is being held. So this is for sure, and also for a) what Mr. Genjac quoted as saying, I think even there can be spoken, it may have been hours. So both of these documents carry a date of 24.09, so it's really not, it's not a question, so whether something was almost typed at that time, available, etc. So I think that we should just have a little bit more detail about whether this was available and whether the Commission had this amendment on its hands. However, I will give myself the right to comment on something. So this is what the Rules of Procedure said and these are our rules we need to fully stick to them. But I'm asking a question here for all of us. One very practical question. Is there any sense of responsibility for, say, an important or less important question, and every question is important, when it comes to law-making, and the point is important. This responsibility to transfer to three men, a member of the Commission plus three from another House, or it is still more correct that we share this responsibility here, all together, so our whole home and this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And that's why I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't take this personally and get to the bottom of this here. So let's not run away from what the Rules of Procedure allows us and use those rights. If we don't make a deal, I suggest we organize a break to make a deal, I don't think this is relevant, but it's not too important that we can't make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1041	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. Here comes Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1042	Dear gentlemen, perhaps the words are forgotten here, this law was made with the OHR and the Council of Ministers and that he worked with entity ministries. Secondly, this is a roofed one regulation that has its own improvements that Mr. Minister said from the Return Fund, or one financial centre that is being created in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from some improvements in Brcko, the formation of regional centres, perhaps we are not satisfied with Republika Srpska, we may have had an observation that we were looking for another regional centre but we realized that it was done with entity ministries, that there were improvements on donations. And what Mr. Jukić has suggested, it is only one acceleration, because we are here, if we are to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, then today we will form a commission for both the House and the other to bring the text of the law into line. So, nothing is disputed either to accept today, if we have accepted that the law goes in the second reading, we are close to respecting and this procedure according to OHR is not a problem if we should take a break but our amendment submitted by Mr Genjac, who was on our constitutional and legal committee, is not contrary to the amendments of the House of Representatives, and I think we could adopt in this variant, as, meaning only one acceleration Mr. Jukić has suggested. And that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1043	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović, I think the debate itself brings us into a situation that we have accepted, if here we can formally vote on it. 17 Have we accepted this law to discuss this law in a second reading? Who's in? Please, it means we've accepted that. Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Please nice, I still think we have to plead, my little oversight. Who is it to accept this law in a second reading? We need to talk about this law in the second reading, we need to adopt the law simply because we insist, we debate in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1044	In this debate we will discuss, then we will probably accept or not accept this law in the second reading, but first we must decide whether to discuss it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1045	Here's the first thing we're going to do is discuss another reading. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1046	After Mr. Jukić submitted the amendments in his first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1047	Please, these are not amendments, no, no, I'm sorry, please excuse me, sir, these are not amendments, this is Mr. Jukić's proposal, and in no case are amendments. Amendments shall be made as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and by law. I'm asking you first to make a statement on this. Who's that we're having a discussion? Business, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1048	Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, the debate in the House, will begin with the first reading on the necessity of the principle that the proposal for a law is based on the Commission's report. The debate on articles will begin if Dom decides to do so. If the House does not so decide the passed law is considered rejected. We had a vote and we agreed to go into debate, and we started sleeping around the members. Please, the discussion of the members has begun. Therefore, please discuss the members started with the fact that there are no two proposals in the House of Peoples from the aspect of the procedure, Mr. Jukić. 18 For the House of People at this time there is a proposal from the Council of Ministers which has adopted one amendment from this Constitutional and Legal Committee of this House, and this is a proposal that exists before this House. There is no other proposal in front of the House that may be referred to point b. of Article 3 which speaks when it seeks to bring 2 or more of the proposals under discussion. So there are no two suggestions. They don't exist. There's d.f., there's an appeal to how they said I don't know correctness. However, gentlemen dear, in some respects correctness and inaccuracy are principles in the relationship that governs the House of Peoples, because there are different views on different issues, the offices of the Rules of Procedure apply. And if there's a chance that people can get along on some issues, that's fine. However, if it does not exist, there is a Rules of Procedure which is the only relevant and which has laid down the procedure and only under the Rules of Procedure can the procedure be conducted. Everything else is from the domain of fiction, please. So here at this moment in front of the House there is one proposal, there is a need for the law to be adopted as soon as possible, to approach reconciliation, if it is in a different form and please if we call on OHR demands and suggestions to be done as soon as possible, please do our job as delegates in the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1049	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I must say that really I, that really this home, that really this house has not received new amendments, has not received amendments, that there is one single proposal in front of this house, this is this proposal from the Council of Ministers and that there has been no interventions, or amendments, other than Mr Genjac's amendment. Please be, I would pray that this one be discussed in that sense. And here you go. Here, come on, Mr. Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1050	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify the first thing that I think we need here to clarify, and that is after the debate begins, the chair of the consultation with the vice-president will respect the new amendments. So the debate has begun. Do we have any new amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1051	We don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1052	Mr. Jukić, is this what you have made the amendments to the House of Representatives, do you accept it as your amendments to this House? If we have that, then we have a new situation where we have amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1053	I ask that point 3 be applied, so to carry out consultations, then to establish 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1054	Yes, consultations are carried out if we have new amendments. Do we have any new amendments? Does he accept any amendments to the House of Representatives? It can, if the debate starts, we can have new amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1055	Why not?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1056	Respect new amendments if the College agrees. If the College agrees.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1057	How come we don't have any amendments? Says who?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1058	Where are they?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1059	Here they are. I'm taking over the amendments from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1060	The college agrees now on the adoption of the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1061	No, it says here that once the debate begins, the amendments may be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1062	I'm begging. I'm begging. I'm here, please, taking a break and agree to see what we do. Here, we took a break because we agreed at the College on these new amendments, namely Mr. Jukić's proposal, the amendment proposed by Mr. Jukić. [[PAUZA]] Unfortunately, at the College, we did not agree that these amendments were going into the proposal and it remains for us to discuss the text of the law proposed by the Council of Ministers for the amendment proposed by Mr Genjac and adopted by the committee in charge, and therefore the amendment became an integral part of this law. So, here's what we're going to do now that we're going to have to continue this assembly. I am now opening the debate under this law and here is the debate, for discussion, I have not heard, business question Mr Filipović. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1063	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, a few words I will try to say with the intention of getting out of this situation in which the OHR or the OSCE is asking us to pass this law by the end of this month. The state in which we have come to bring these amendments and additions to this law, the state in which we have come is the indeterminateness of our Rules of Procedure which we have just finished on a committee of our home and on the Committee for Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Uncertainty is precisely because of this situation that we have come to and because of the fact that very important, very important, that representatives of the international community, not only in this case, but in this case it is shown that they are looking for this problem, and we have a good will, I suppose all of us to meet this request and, within the required time, because the House of Representatives has done their part of the work and we in our home with as much text as possible identical text as possible, as the House of Representatives has done, determine and bring amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. It was a motive why we agreed that Mr. Jukić would come up with a proposal compared to these new facts, knowing exactly what the Rules of Procedure was regulating. It wasn't, here's to not saying enough political will, but understanding for this intention of ours to come as soon as possible with an approximate text, preferably with the same text both at this home and at the House of Representatives on the amendments to this law as it is. I underline it's a new fact that we don't have regulated in the Rules of Procedure, so here's why, or for some other reason, the College couldn't accept that the amendment was working before the debate was concluded in another reading. So there is a first reading and a second reading to be done, but we have no regulation in the Rules of Procedure that at the request of someone, especially representatives of the international community we can unite those two discussions. We didn't regulate it with the Rules of Procedure, that's the will of this house. Since we have heard the position of the College, I have one concrete solution to open our rules of procedure and to get to Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure which tells us, in fact it opens the possibility for us to conclude this at home, I ask that this conclusion be put to the vote by the Chairman, so that, in conclusion of the House, we open an amendment action on the amendment and addition of this law. That way, this house has brought this Rules of Procedure, and Dom can conclude a new rule of conduct for this home. That's how we get out of this trap we got into. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1064	Thank you. He's reporting for a hearing, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1065	I really ask you to bear in mind that we are on the 9th point of the agenda, that we are in the debate in the second reading on articles of the law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Refugees Act, and all these issues that treat this area and the work of the House of Peoples, the adoption of laws, the commission phase, the amendment action, the debate, the first 21 reading, the second reading are fully regulated by the Rules of Procedure. So fully regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, according to Article 131, it reads the House of Conclusions can regulate specific issues that are not regulated by this Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure fully regulates the adoption of laws, because it is the only role, the key role of the House of Peoples and the entire Parliamentary Assembly. As far as OHR and OSCE are concerned, they have indeed made a request, from earlier than a month ago, that this law be passed within a certain time limit. I fully respect, and therefore I have submitted the amendment, which is why I worked on the commission, which is why I have done everything I can to get this law passed as soon as possible, and I am fully convinced that OHR will be very pleased if we adopt the law here today in accordance with our rules of procedure. There is no OHR against the commission agreeing and respecting parliamentary procedures. Believe me. The OHR will welcome the fact that the law has been passed and will be pleased with the fact that by the 30th and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples passed the law. Of course, respecting the fact that there is a difference and that a joint commission will form that will bring it together. And therefore, I ask you, therefore, please, with all due respect, it is the procedure for the adoption of the law which is perfectly precise and very clearly regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Whether or not we're going to make any conclusions, I don't think we can put it on the table at this point, or at this point, because it's a debate on the law on articles. It's a date. Business interventions can also be brought to a warning that the Rules of Procedure are not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1066	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1067	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I believe that we as MPs in the House of Peoples should have a little more hearing, because if MPs in the House of Representatives and there are more and they were the first to consider this law, if they had adopted some amendments to those amendments, this commission should have been considered. However, by the excuse of Mr Jukić, I understand that this commission has not even discussed these amendments from the House of Representatives, that they have arrived late. At least that's how I understood. And I'm worried about how I'm interpreting our rules of procedure, and I think I'm interpreting it normally and rationally, and he says it like this. If we now bring without these amendments brought by the House of Representatives, we pass this law and what Mr. Genjac says and what OHR obliges us to do, we literally pass two laws that are in different texts. After that, a commission must be formed immediately, both at home and at the House of Representatives, to agree on the same text. If that doesn't happen, this law will fall. And it will not happen because there is no hearing from the representatives of the Bosniak people, I, as I see Srbin, have the understanding to enter it, the Hrvat do, so we will get to the point that it will happen safely. Because that's what the Rules of Procedure says. Here, I'll read it to you. If, and I think everyone knows the Rules of Procedure, there's no need for me to read. This law will fall. And then there's no point in doing Sisif's job right now, 22 trying to bring it here in an unequivocal text that the commission is ambushed and the commission disagrees, the law has fallen. And it's not in the interest of the Bosniak club, nor the Serbian club, nor the Croatian club, nor the OHR that asks for this to be adopted urgently by the new year because of, you know, the creation of a special fund that this law will succeed in financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1068	Thank you very much, Mr. Spasojević. This is Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1069	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I have come out to say one fact that stands here and cannot be said here that Bosniak delegates of the House of Peoples do not want to pass this law. You can't say that in any way. We're only asking here to comply with the procedure. Nothing out of the ordinary is. It is not the first time in this parliamentary assembly that two homes bring, vote the law in a different text. It is not unusual for a commission to be formed, and so far it has been done, and it is quite a normal process that is envisaged both by the rules of procedure and by both homes. And it's no problem to do it this time and we can vote that law five times by the new year. Today, we will honor the request to declare it by October 1st. He'll be voted if we vote him today and form him today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1070	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1071	Please, Mr. Spasojević, I say nothing unusual is that two legal texts have been voted in two homes in a different text. It's not even a little bit, it's no wonder, it's been happening so far. After all, you're an experienced Parliamentarian just like there are more experienced ones here. We know it's happening and it's not a matter of political will and question of this and that. The political will and desire are ours if anyone is to make that law as best and as quality as possible. And we consider further discussion and further explanations and further arguments on the one hand and on the other hand can only improve the law in that commission section. If we say it today, we'll make a mistake if we don't vote today, and we won't make a mistake if we choose a commission and pass on to one and the other home. And I think that's the real problem. It did not soak the sword on its neck that today it must comply with the House of Representatives, because it is simply not true by the Rules of Procedure or by the rules of the game of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1072	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Šiljegović answered the question. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1073	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, there are probably some strangers to us from the order of the Serbian people, because what Mr. Jukić suggested was that it was an acceleration of the process for the reduction and formation of mutual committees to bring the text of the law into line with each other. Since we see that something is not clear to us, I just want to warn you, a member of our 95th Rules of Procedure says, point 2. – if the Joint Commission fails to reach a consensus, or if both homes fail to adopt its proposal, the bill is considered rejected. I even spoke to Mr. Keba, thinking that Mr. Jukić's intention was well-intentioned, to cut short, is in our practice this famous Mr. Brk, we have so far had an countless number of commissions, etc. In that direction, if we stick strictly to this Rules of Procedure, then today we can only approach the vote in the proposed law with the amendment that was on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but once again reminds me of Article 95, and I want to say clearly and loudly that the delegates in the order of the Serbian people were ready and willing to end this in another reading and that the law gets its full form.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1074	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. Is anyone else picking up? So it remains, since there are no more debates to vote on the law proposed by the Council of Ministers with the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1075	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1076	Okay. I agree that we will vote, but I think that this law, the House of Dom, can regulate specific issues that are not regulated by this Rules of Procedure. Please, nice. Please, this matter is entirely here that is not regulated by this Rules of Procedure. The matter we're continuing on is absolutely regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I thought there was no need to put it to the vote. But here, I'll put it on. Please. Because that would be in my personal opinion voting against the Rules of Procedure and I think putting it to Mr Filipović's vote, I don't know how good that is, but if you insist then. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Please. He can't say the Rules of Procedure aren't worth it. The Rules of Procedure are valid. Don't say that. Don't say the Rules of Procedure aren't worth it. And other than that, please, sir, and besides that, please be nice, and besides that, this isn't specific matter. This isn't specific matter. This is a regular and common issue of this home, and it's by no means specific. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1077	Please, therefore, a member of the Rules of Procedure has made it very clear that the adoption of new amendments can be carried out with the Conference of the Chairman with his deputies and the Chairman. That's what the Rules of Procedure has done. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. A conclusion has been proposed which the member of the Rules of Procedure says is not valid. The proposed conclusion is not valid for that member of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to work against the Rules of Procedure, because it is not appropriate for the House of Peoples to be my own Rules of Procedure. So a conclusion is proposed which says - the member of the Rules of Procedure and it is not worth it. And please don't, if we keep doing this. It is said that new amendments can be submitted with the agreement of the chairman following consultations with the chairman, the consultation carried out, and the member rules it. Because a conclusion is now proposed which says - new amendments can be accepted by the House's conclusion. Please, first of all, the opposite is that it is not a specific question, the second which is not an unresolved question, but has been resolved and therefore the proposal for a conclusion does not meet the conditions of the business to put it to the vote. And please, we are on the agenda of the law and we are having a debate on the law and voting and an urgent vote to which all the debaters are called today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1078	Thank you. Me, here's Mr. Jukić. Mr. Jukić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1079	No document is perfect, so our rules of procedure are not perfect. And of course it's not with everything here and the efforts of those who have worked on it before, and even now these commissions that work on changes and additions that won't be perfect again and it won't, I'm confident to regulate all the issues, that all the situations that can arise through the work of this home, and that's why I think this Article 131 right now serves those purposes. I, in point 3 of Article 89, am just reading one specific situation or question, and this is a situation where no agreement is reached in the consultations as it says here in the Rules of Procedure of the President and of the Vice-President. And I believe that this is precisely one of those issues that, whose way of resolving is provided for in Article 131, and I believe that we would do no harm to the Rules of Procedure but that which is not clearly sufficiently precise about some issue of the House's conclusion would further specify and the House would take responsibility to be an authentic interpreter of the misunderstanding or indeterminate of this Rules of Procedure. That is why I believe Mr. Ilija Filipović's proposal is good and that the House should plead this way on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1080	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1081	A lot of things I wanted to say was already said by Mr. Jukić. But there's another similar thing. The college didn't accept but refused to put this on, but it just didn't agree to what we were going to do, because we didn't regulate the Rules of Procedure. What do we do next? Here is the reason for the conclusion of Article 131. It's there, and there's a reason. All of these elements about the fact that we are here today are supposed to end and bring the debate, again, I'm telling you as much as possible in the same text as in each other's homes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1082	Thank you very much. Mr. Radovic, go ahead. Oh, please excuse me. I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1083	I'm sorry. We have a secretary here who's been paid to interpret something that we really can't interpret. He's the professional face that's gonna help us get this little guy, I don't think this is much of a problem, but let's get past him. I'm asking the secretary to come out now and to the precise menu, I don't know if, that's why I'm asking as an MP to explain to me when the first reading ends and when the second reading takes place. Because it's not clear to the Rules of Procedure here. I don't know when it starts, really, and when it ends.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1084	Thank you. Radović. Well, you're the one who answered, and then the secretary will. They're putting you back in pain, Jadranko.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1085	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that we've strayed from the basic goal, our goal is the law. And now I'm asking myself a question, and are the amendments he proposed and adopted by the House of Representatives improving the text of the law, making better solutions for refugees or not? It is obvious that we have also turned our backs here from some little emotion-filled principles we are trying to compete this one on the regularity and faults of the Rules of Procedure and its comprehensiveness so that it can regulate all questions. I'd rather turn around what these amendments get refugees and displaced faces. Is that an improvement in basic text? If so, these Articles 91, 131 and others are less important. It's more important that we get a better text. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1086	Thank you, Mr. Radović. Mr. Jadranko. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1087	I'd like to tell you that the first and second readings are not divided into two sessions, but only by voting, by adopting the law in the first reading, they can automatically switch to the second reading. It passes, and the other thing is that this whole period and actually the Rules of Procedure are so designed to separate the first and second reading at one session. And the second thing is that this whole period of adoption of the Rules of Procedure has become a gentlemen's agreement between MPs in the House of Representatives, envoys in the House of Peoples to separate first and second readings into two sessions. But business is done reading on, first and second readings at one session and second reading begins with the actual adoption of the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1088	Yes, it is. Thank you very much, Jadranko. Mr. Neimarlija. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1089	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, or delegates, guests from the Council of Ministers, from the media and others, I came out to warn, however, that we can make a mistake if we continue to insist on replacing things. I was a little surprised, to be honest, because Mr Filipović is a lawyer and he knows very well that all stories, if they reach out to formal arguments, fall. With us, the Rules of Procedure made it very clear that he, of course, was weak for me, there are indeed weak places and there are indeterminateities, but he very precisely defined the procedure of the amendment and he made it very clear and precise that the amendments could be brought or attached to the session as Mr Jukić did and that they would be accepted if the College agreed. The college didn't agree. It was completely legitimate, full-time that a colleague of Jukić performed not with the amendments of the Council of Representatives, but with his amendments that were actually adopted there. Since the College did not agree, gentlemen of the Rules of Procedure any further story or attempt to do anything else would mean a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's one dimension or one thing, and I'm asking you to appreciate it. So, Col. Jukić, a full-time, legitimately attached his amendments to the Rules of Procedure, called for new facts, a fellow Genjac disputed that these were new facts, turned out to be the problem with the watch-two, whether members of our Constitutional and Legal Commission had it in mind or not, but this College did not agree that these amendments would accept, to respect this moment and as new moments to justify their acceptance. And according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the procedure for the adoption of amendments has been completed, and we are ahead of a statement under the Bill proposal, the Proposal for a Council of Ministers with an amendment which is the Constitutional and Legal Commission which has become an integral part of the amendment. And it's a clean, integral part of the law and there's a clean situation. Our position on this question, I believe that this, uh, doesn't give anyone the right to say this now, defines whether we're like 27 Bošnjak for the law or not. I'm sure, of course, that fellow Spasojević didn't have any bad ideas, this one when in the reactions of the delegates from the Bosniak people, he actually gave himself the idea that we were against the law. Just work, so I'd ask you to, if we didn't get into a situation, first here, there's no one right to go over, that by violating the procedure, which is very clear this one, now resorts to certain here to say and political qualifications, and then not at all comfortable this, the possibilities for someone to vote here now, etc. which is no one's wish. Of course, I believe that it was neither a wish nor a debate on one law that we all want to and that regulates such important and sensitive matter goes in this direction. But under the circumstances when we have very clearly defined things, this every resort to this question now is whether first reading, I mean it seems very deplaced, but I remind you and warn you indeed, that after the College acquires the circumstances of the College today it was only two, this Commissioner
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1090	We had a deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1091	Or me, actually there was a third here now and it's this one but I think, that is, it's satisfied on that side in full capacity with this procedure. The college didn't agree, and we don't have any formal space anymore. Any further story is a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1092	Thank you very much for blaming the quote, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1093	I'm sorry to have to tell Mr. Neimarlija, but Mr. Neimarlija, you didn't get a good look at what I said. I didn't say it would be your fault, but I said it the way I'm gonna do it again. To pass such a law, in this proposal as it is now, so the Bošnjak do not want to agree with this proposal, which Mr Jukić puts forward, it is this real fact that, indirectly, when the commission is formed, you will have to agree with, the one who brought the House of Representatives. If we were for what the House of Representatives brought, both Srbin and Hrvat are asking for it to be done now. Then you'll have to do the same when it's a committee match. If you don't do it, the law is down. That's what I said. And it's a real condition.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1094	Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1095	If you want to enter into the law, you'll have to do 28.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1096	kolega Spasojević, this is not us against the proposal none of our delegates from the Bosniak people, as far as I followed today's debate, said it was against the amendments brought by the House of Representatives. So we're not against those amendments. We have not made a statement at all about the content of the amendments he has submitted or proposed to be respected, counterpart Jukić. We're just against, we respect procedure, we're for procedure in this case. Her understanding or interpretation is now a matter of freedom, but it doesn't mean it can be like you said. We will agree tomorrow, no, I don't mean I don't mean it, but I didn't come out because of this special clarification, but because of this last sentence – it has to be, nothing has to be. It has to be just what we agree on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1097	No, I didn't say you had to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1098	You must have said, well,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1099	We're definitely trying to pass the law, and in the end we're going to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1100	Please, without controversy, let's be this parliamentary one, let's be, Mr. Brk, it's not your turn. It's Filipović, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1101	If I may this, distinguished fellow MPs
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1102	Excuse me, I'd like to ask you if we had the patience to hear from each other, not to discuss it from the scene, let's discuss it at the pay phone. Everyone's gonna get a word in, because otherwise we're gonna make a mess of this Parliament. Hala.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1103	In relation to what the esteemed colleague of Neimarlija said, with my full respect for him as a person and for all that he does to me in this short period of time in this House and in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I have one perfectly decent, correct, positive thought about Mr. Neimarlija, but just for the record. But I can't understand his suspicion of me as a lawyer in relation to this matter that we're discussing. We are discussing a significant undefined business issue of this, I am underlining what this one is and why I went out and after a break this one when we received a negative decision from the College, 29 tabled a conclusion on Article 131 of our Rules of Procedure. I will Vratić to Article 89, which gave the College the opportunity to respect or disregard new amendments after the debate began. (a) says when it relates to new aspects which the Commission could not take into account. Please, as the Commission could have known by the time limit that we must adopt the amendments as soon as possible in the same text by the end of this month this law, as the Commission could have taken this aspect into account, given that the House of Representatives will adopt the amendments, if the Commission has worked on 24 September, and the House of Representatives adopted amendments 25/09/09. Well, isn't that enough reason for us to say that the Commission couldn't have in mind that you, too, are amending this, because as Mr. Genjac does, and he's doing this with the intention that I'm saying that as close as possible to the text of a single law adopted in a House, the text we adopt here in the House of Peoples, he brings us the prescribed ones, it's called Resor school, the prescribed amendments he adopts, which I keep positive because he cuts our time, we don't spend energy, etc. We would have done the same if the Commission had held a session on the 26th. We couldn't do that because the session was at the House of Representatives when an amendment was adopted a day later after the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed amendments and additions to the law, Mr Genjac knows. And now the question is asked by the College, not respecting this fact when Mr. Jukić gave this, expressed his desire to act in amendment, refused the request to act in amendment. And now, we in the Rules of Procedure if he was to accept and the College refused, we are no longer regulated, so there is a basis for, please nice, I am now speaking as a legalist. And there's a reason to define an undefined conclusion in Article 131 that gives us the possibility. I don't know why we're running away from it. It seems to me that this is a perfectly clear elaborate and I end up staying at the conclusion proposal and asking that the conclusion be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1104	It's not your turn, Mr. brkati. Mr. Brk, I said, give you your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1105	I'll take a quick word for it. I really don't see the need to insist on breaking the procedure this much, whenever we say so, be careful we're going to have to form a CIC today. If we respect our commission and our home. Our commission passed an amendment that is an integral part of the bill proposed by Dr. Genjac. If we accept everything the House of Representatives has suggested, we must again form a commission. Because of this one amendment proposed by Dr. Genjac and that's not in the House of Representatives. So all this talk of an hour or two doesn't matter, it falls into the water because we still have to form a Commission for text alignment, both at home and at home. And I, I really don't see, I don't see the point of insisting at all costs of violating the procedure, not respecting our rules of procedure, and we're certainly going to form a Commission for Harmonization. 30 Indeed, I ask you to understand this thing that it is an inevitability to form a committee for reconciliation. Whether it's about one or four amendments, it's totally less important now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1106	Thank you very much, Mr. Radović, IRadovanović sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1107	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, although this situation is crystal clear to me, I know how I'm going to do it, but I believe Mr. Ilija has the right to request a vote on the conclusion. I'd ask you to state and read that conclusion that he's proposing, because the thing is home whether he accepts that conclusion or not. According to Article 131, I think he has the right to conclude the vote, and it is the House whether he will accept it or not, or we will act on that conclusion or not. According to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1108	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1109	I believe that from this debate we can still get very useful experiences and useful knowledge. And I'm personally convinced that we're all aware that even by passing a law in a way that I don't know which variant, we're not going to solve refugee problems, and we're interested in getting rid of them as quickly as possible. However, the law helps solve this difficult problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, why did I respond to my colleague Radovanović's proposal, because I am sure that this fellow Radovanović will agree with me on the following implications, if we accept the proposal of my colleague Filipović, whom I will really respect, as well as the representative of the Commission and an excellent lawyer, but please now, please respect the implications. And I believe this is a useful result of this debate. It's not in the process, there's something completely specific in the procedure, which isn't regulated by our rules of procedure. A proposal for new amendments has emerged. A proposal for new amendments proposed by counterpart Jukić appeared. The college disagreed, beware the College did not agree, if we would now accept in a purely procedural, clean situation as a full proposal, a fellow Filipović, you know what kind of implications. Whenever they don't agree with this one tomorrow when the College doesn't agree, then everyone has every right to request the blocking of the Rules of Procedure. Implication is the thinking of the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, and that is why I believe that this proposal is not all about legalism. There's nothing technically disputed. That the new situation is, that this amendment is not defined, and the way they are accepted or not accepted. This was a completely legitimate and full-time request. This puts us at risk, distinguished fellow delegates, that tomorrow, at any non-compliance with counterpart Radovanović, everyone has the right to request a change of rules of procedure. 31 It is a very serious implication that I hold none of us are willing to accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1110	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovć.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1111	I first said that the situation is clear to me, which doesn't mean I'm going to vote for the conclusion that I won't vote either. So I know, however, Article 131 gives Mr Filipović the right to submit a proposal for a conclusion, and I think there are too many hypothetical questions here today what happens if we vote like this, what happens if a commission is formed. Please, we cannot deny this right to Mr. Ilija, but we cannot now discuss what will happen if that conclusion is adopted or not adopted. How do we know that this conclusion will be adopted? So maybe that conclusion is adopted and maybe not adopted and I don't know how we're gonna get out of that situation if Mr. Ilija doesn't give up his proposal. The chairman will have to put it to the vote, that conclusion. Therefore, I would ask Mr. Ilija to submit a proposal of his own, if he had, I hadn't heard the suggestion yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1112	Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1113	This may seem to someone and perhaps most or perhaps not to anyone that may be a little unnecessary debate, but I believe that this is our right to represent us and would neither be in a hurry nor hasten to anyone at all. I believe that everyone should have the opportunity to express their views, their opinions, and ultimately decide as this Rules of Procedure has been prescribed. I would just remind all of us together on an article in our 130th Rules of Procedure. I think the careful reading of this article and his message is clear to everyone. Therefore, the House may, at any time, supplement this Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina using the decision-making procedure in accordance with Article 4(3) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let's not deny us while we're working on the tide of any rights because our rights while we're working in the session are greater rights than any representative's rights as representatives of the College, of the Commission, and that's what it says here, etc. Therefore, the article states that the Commission can be used in Article 131 but that, therefore, Article 132 says that the Commission can draw conclusions for the same purpose as in Article 131 and on the issues of its powers. These conclusions are subordinated to Dom's conclusions. So everything is always subject to the conclusions or decisions of the House. Therefore, in my opinion everything that is not quite clear and precise or to any member is not clear, should be explained or clarified, and if there is a need to use all the powers and regulations that each representative has under the Constitution and in this Rules of Procedure. And that is why 32 of my proposal and my suggestion to all of us – we are not in a hurry and we are not in a position to usurp anyone's rights, especially ourselves and we are not avoiding each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1114	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1115	The submission of new amendments at the time of the debate on articles in the House is only possible in the situation and if the College is agreed, if the chair approves it in the findings with the Vice-Presidents. If, therefore, the College does not succeed in the findings and no consensus is reached, the submission of new amendments is not accepted. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have made it clear when new amendments can be submitted, as can be accepted, and, of course, if they are not accepted, there is no debate on new amendments. The Rules of Procedure have made it very clear that only then can amendments be accepted. And the legislative procedure is precise, clear and very, very detailed. Mr. Jukić, you have called on article 130, where the House is said to supplement its Rules of Procedure at any time on the proposal of its member. Please, supplementing the Rules of Procedure is complementing what is not there. What exists, what's solved is complementarity. It's the first implication. Another implication, Mr. Jukić, be aware that you are proposing the possibility of amending the Rules of Procedure and supplementing it. You wouldn't recommend it, it wouldn't be a good message. Please, the Bosniak Club is not about to change its Rules of Procedure at this time. Please, the Rules of Procedure are very clear, precisely set out there is a very clear provision that if the College does not agree there is no possibility of further discussions on the amendments and this is very clear in the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you to keep that in mind, everything else, everything else, and there are some implications that, in the debate in this law, have nothing to do with the law, we need to talk about it, and we need to make it clear at last about the law. The adoption of a number of amendments by the predstavnički of Representatives was known to me before the Commission as a member of the Commission. Were the other members of the Commission aware of these amendments because these amendments were accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives long before the Commission adopted the House of Peoples. Did the other members of the Constitutional Law know about these amendments I do not know, but as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Nations I knew about these amendments. These amendments are not mere amendments. And please don't make grades here. If a group of MPs accepts some amendments, then there is a hearing of a political one. If he doesn't accept the amendments then the Bošnjak have no hearing. Please, here the role of the House of Nations is equal to the position of the House of Representatives with its clubs of the people to consider, legitimately speaking proposals, is its views. We have a very clear amendment that we have submitted, an amendment that has been accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we have a bill. From the point of view of the Rules of Procedure it is a point that is legitimate, everything else is an attempt that can lead us on a very 33 wrong path. And for that, please, let us return to the Rules of Procedure, with its very precise and very clear provisions in this matter. And let it be, for the Rules of Procedure have also provided for the Conciliation Commission, and how the Commission will agree, who will agree, whether or not it will agree, I am the one who sees the optimist agreeing. Let's leave that to the Commission that will work. Do not pre-audit, and please, I warn you that the chairman of this House can put them to vote on the conclusions that are in line with the Rules of Procedure. If it is referred to Article 131, it may, in conclusion, regulate a question which is not regulated by this Rules of Procedure. We have a question that has been regulated by this Rules of Procedure, fully regulated, and I ask that we work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1116	Thank you, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1117	I just wish my words weren't interpreted wrong or what I thought or didn't mean it, etc. I have not spoken at all a word about the content of these amendments or their results in the law itself, meaning their implications for the application of the law, and in particular I have not talked about any political implications or I do not know about reflections, etc. That's what kept me from it. It seems to me even the best or most of all who have talked about this today. And I didn't also call for a change in the Rules of Procedure, but I just asked the 130th article that says what it says. And I continue to argue that everything that is not sufficiently precise and clearly stated by the Rules of Procedure can and should be settled in conclusion. That is why Article 131 is precisely how it is formulated. And I wouldn't comment any further. So, I think we need to agree, from this to come up with one find that either we go with the conclusion or we set one break to try to do some consultings in clubs between clubs and the rest, so maybe in the follow-up session we can come up with a solution. I don't doubt that at all, because the solution is more than just a question that we're going to choose as the best solution and I'm in that light right now and I see this whole debate. And for myself, I'm going to make it up to my colleague, Ilija, right now because he said at one point that the session was our 24th commission, which is true. On that same day, there was a session of the Zastupnica House and the same day these amendments were adopted, but we received the information tomorrow, so on the 25th day she worked, the Commission did not know about those amendments. And if they had been proposed earlier, we all know that. However, the amendment proposed earlier and in time does not mean that it will be in the text of the law. This therefore states that the Commission is really not based on the meaning of this chronology, it did not, at the time of its work, bear in mind all these aspects.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1118	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1119	Dear fellow MPs, here's what I think we're going to come up with is some kind of solution and I'm not holding down any harm that we've been discussing in this matter for so long, and it's good to make things clear as cold as possible. Sometimes a word hurts, but especially if it's true, then it hurts even more, to someone she doesn't answer. So I'm not giving up on my proposal for a conclusion, and to make a statement about it, we're pleading. I'd just say with respect to what the esteemed fellow Genjac said. This college refused but we don't have anything regulated if the College didn't have to refuse and refused what then, and also because of that, we just don't have a little because we have, just let me not interrupt, I listened to you very carefully. We have a valid fact that Mr. and Mr. Jukić were now talking about. Here was the same day of the House of Representatives meeting and the amendments adopted that we couldn't know about. I'd like to ask now, you've simply offered me one more question here with your discussion. We could talk here a little bit and opener and clearer and more honestly about this thing where the problem is. Otherwise there wouldn't be a catch. I have learned today that the constitutional and legal committee of the House of Representatives has overvoted Bošnjak and that the Bošnjak are not responding to the amendments we are talking about here and that this is why they do not want to debate or accept these amendments. Let's start with that fact that's true is that because I got it from you. And now I'm asking you if you knew about the amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, why not all the other members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm asking professional services, just don't laugh, you guys from professional services. I would like to ask the professional services, with an agreement with the president of my club after my discussion, to request a break from the chairman, some expert services of Parliament's dispensation to check the exact date on which the Constitutional and Legal Commission informed the House of Peoples about the amendments adopted, and for which reason the Secretary of the Commission did not put the same amendment to the attention of all the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission prior to the debate of the 24th session. So let's check it out, that's why we need a break. And it's very signifying to me, and now I'm going to make it loud and clear without any emotion and without any twisting. I am very signified that the laws laid down by the Council of Ministers, on very subtle laws in recent times, it is the Law on Defence, speaking in the media, certain MPs have had it, they read it and know exactly what it says, before it came to the MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly in the regular procedure in this house. There's a debate going on, there's media campaigns going on, it's not, etc. And it's signifying to me. I'm afraid that's not why they didn't answer to any of these amendments because they've been late for us on our constitutional and legal committee. So they were late and you see me now, and I'm calling on it, and we didn't know it was a new aspect, which is why I'm suggesting a conclusion to open an amendment debate and I'm not giving up that we could change this, this law, because we need to unite first and second reading and we don't have a Rules of Procedure regulated. I said we'd regulate it with the new Rules of Procedure. Please pause, preferably as soon as possible, to examine what I asked. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1120	Thank you very much. One replica, Mr Filipović, pointing out this problem says that we do not have, we have regulated what is when they do not agree, and what is when they did not, when they did not agree and they had to agree. I don't know who it is to decide if I needed anything or not. Since, please, Mr Filipović, I do not allow it to anyone, I did not agree in the College with this to go as suggested by Mr Jukić. Simply because we treated this topic at the previous College and talked about it the way it went and how it went, however, whether I should have made a deal or not, I have to admit it's my right to do so, and don't stop the Commission and look for the Commission and look for someone who will decide whether I should have done something or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1121	Mr. Čengić
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1122	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, media, the international community, I take the opportunity, although I have abstained and difficult all the time not to discuss, that before I discuss congratulating Mr. Jukić for good and efficient management and quality work in the House, while he was chairing, and to wish Mr. Mustafa Pamuk also successful work. It seems to me that this first day of work is harder than one day of preside over this home, as far as I'm concerned, it might be a little bit symbolic. I will, before I discuss it, ask Mr Pamuk a question. Mr Pamuk, I ask you to answer me right now, I apologize, I have the right to ask for this, when you received in writing the amendment proposed by Mr Jukić today as amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1123	I never did. Right, I never did.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1124	So, gentlemen, if we need to discuss the story from the beginning. So, we here keep discussing over two hours about something that doesn't exist. Let's talk about the law. I support the law, I consider it extremely important both as an MP and as a citizen of Bosnia and as a member of the Bosniak delegates' Club in this home. So, I accept and support the law of the one who is the only one in the House at this time, i.e. the law proposed by the Council of Ministers with the amendment of the Genjac delegates adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House. I'm asking you honestly instead of politicizing to do the job, to vote on that text of the law that we have here and to go on working. Anything other than this is going to be politicizing that could cause even more time-consuming, and even some other things that wouldn't be necessary wouldn't be good. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1125	Thank you very much. I'm begging you to take a break at the request of a gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1126	I'd like to ask you a question before the break. The direct question is how did I get the amendments and someone didn't get it? It is very simple, very simple not because the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives is obliged to submit amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples and not because it is the responsibility of the Secretariat and the professional services to do so. They're bound to do it when it's converted to the House of Representatives. I got it because I was interested and interested in what the House of Representatives committees are doing. It's my right, you know. At the beginning of the session, counterpart Jukić suggested, as he heard that some amendments were adopted on the commission, that I take over the amendments. I said very openly not all amendments are acceptable, I can't take them, at the beginning of that Constitutional and Legal Commission. They're not acceptable, they're very clear because they're not all of us, we have a different political view, we have a different view of what's here and business, and that's why it's that story. We can't for reasons I don't know or I have here it's simply about amendments that have been legitimately adopted at the House of Representatives, which are not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure in the procedure here in the procedure, these are very clear things. There's no obligation to meet at both homes at one time. The very simple Rules of Procedure prescribes a commission to form that will do all this clearly, precisely.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1127	Thank you, I'm taking a break from 15, so please let me take this opportunity, let people have lunch, let people eat. We work as long as we work. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm taking a break an hour and a half. Is basically asking for a break whether, it is agreed and here at this point I have received these amendments that he represented at this session Mr. Jukić, and here we have received a proposal from Mr. Filipović. [[PAUZA]] Conclusion with justification for this agenda item. I would ask Mr Filipović to go out for a pay phone and that this proposal is a conclusion and this argument is presented to the MPs and to see if Mr Filipović is proposing to vote on it, to declare this parliament. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1128	Thank you very much, Mr Pamuk, thank you very much for accepting the request of the Croatian Representatives Club for this break, which I trust we all welcome that in one tolerated tone as we know it and how we do it, we end today's session of the House. 37 Before the break, I suggested a conclusion and asked that this home be made manifest to that conclusion, now it is just formalized, given one form, and I called here in an act that you have before you and on Article 9. A Rules of Procedure that gives every MP the right to initiate any question, so that's the proposal for a conclusion that stands in the act I gave you. Since the Chair of the House of Peoples in consultations with the vice-presidents did not respect the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted in accordance with Article 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, and this is a very important law and need for its swift adoption and application of the new amendments referred to in Article 89. 3 He decides the house of one of the messengers of the house of the people. By accepting this conclusion, this conclusion has been issued by the Rules of Procedure and allows us to have practically 30.09 today in the same text of the law that we are discussing. The future amendments proposed by Mr Jukić are identical, adopted amendments to the House of Representatives, and thus we carry out the required obligation by representatives of the international community. I'm asking the House to make a statement on this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1129	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Here you have heard Mr Filipović's proposal, you have heard the request, whether there is any need to discuss this, if there is no one I will say a few sentences after all. At this point in the agenda, and at this point we are talking about the law and we are thinking about adopting this law and saying that we should adopt it in the form proposed by the Council of Ministers. However, what I am not happy about is happening, and what this occasion is trying to impose on this Parliament, on behalf of the debate on the law, we are discussing the Rules of Procedure. I think we're on one, so I'd say if it was a skillful way to make a turn at this point in the agenda and direct our thoughts in a completely different direction. I have to say when it comes to this article 31. A Rules of Procedure on which Mr Filipović insists that the member has another, another paragraph that says that, for a possible change to go totally according to one legislative procedure, that commissions must also be convened and that it has its own procedure again. The other thing that is very important, I think it should be noted here and it would be worth a precise and strict word, what are specificities and what is specific in this case, everything that happens I have to say and I so understand things, everything that happens with this point of the agenda is covered by the Rules of Procedure, it's all regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and I don't see that there's anything that's specific to this point, and for other points of the agenda, for other points that have been discussed at this home was not common. We want to make out of the usual things that are absolutely registered to 38 Rules of Procedure, something specific. I don't see this Mr Filipović here is quite right. Well, thank you very much. Is there anyone else out there? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1130	So we got, in writing, a proposal for one conclusion, an initiative, although we don't have it on the agenda, we really don't have the law on the agenda. The initiative is called on on the basis of Article 9 where it is said that the envoy has the right to initiate adoption, amendment or addition of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not about the Constitution of the law to adopt amendments and amendments to the law under consideration was the subject of commissions and delegates and each delegate had the opportunity to initiate the amendments and it is up to us to all decide the adoption together. So it is not that either, as well as the use of other procedures contained in this Rules of Procedure. If you are referring to other acts, then, to the Rules of Procedure and I think that Article 131 to which Mr Filipović was called, in the formulation of the conclusion, Article 131 really says that the House can, in conclusion, regulate typical issues that are not regulated by this Rules of Procedure, continue. In that case, provisions concerning the legislative procedure shall apply unless it concerns the work of the committees. So, the home can, in its conclusion, regulate a question about the work of its commission and without a legislative procedure, however, issues concerning the regulation of certain issues in the Rules of Procedure if they are specific and if they are not regulated in the Rules of Procedure, it is not, in this case, so I quoted members who regulate this procedure, but if these issues are referred to and called for by Article 131, then it is said that there is a right to do so. The MP submits the initiative, and, as the legislative procedure puts it, delivers the initiative to the College. The college shall deliver it to the competent commission. The Commission is considering, MPs are getting to know each other, having the right to act on that conclusion, and later that conclusion comes to the House. Therefore, this sentence is very precise, in this case the provisions concerning the legislative procedure apply. So it would be logical and business if, at the beginning of the session, it had been suggested that the agenda would be a conclusion on a specific issue, and that, in this way, we would consider it, and to further see what would be done, of course, with the necessity of respect and the need to comply with the legislative procedure. Since one initiative has been put forward here, a proposal for a conclusion on some specific issues, as the Proposer considers who intend to regulate some specific issues in the Rules of Procedure. The proposer cannot be prevented from delivering this to the College, and to these competent committees and to carry out the legislative procedure. Before that, however, it is not possible to make a statement at the House, because there is a very clear Rules of Procedure. I would like the chairman, indeed, to ask that we approach the issue at issue concerning this item of the agenda and that in the best atmosphere and the best will we make a statement on this law which is and how important the law is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1131	Thank you very much. There's more. Here you go, Mr. Filipović. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1132	I understand the reasons for such an elaborated representative of Mr Genjac, but I would ask that the content of the proposal be carefully read. It also contains the reasons why it is proposed, and I would like to hear the interpretation of the one who is authorized to do so if they do not understand it. So, the College or the Secretary of the House. The College and the Secretary of the House are empowered to interpret the Rules of Procedure, whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Initiative and whether this House may refuse to vote on the conclusion delivered by any representative of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1133	Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1134	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, for further discussion but also for stenograms, I would just like to warn a few facts. The first is that I personally won the bench in written form of the amendment signed by Mr Velimir Jukić at 16:10, as I saw everyone else including the chairman. That's the first one. Secondly, when it comes to the proposed conclusion, before we decide whether to vote on it, we should still discuss its content. I would ask that we look together and determine which of these contents are facts and what they are not. So in the conclusion that was delivered in the same second as the amendment at 16:10 this September, this year here on our benches. The conclusion states that since dom Speaker did not respect the amendments, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina is then further proposed. So the House Speaker had no amendments and had nothing to show for it, so this proposal cannot stand for it at all. That's number one. Number two, in the text itself, the conclusion states the amendments submitted in accordance with the Article, the pardon submitted pursuant to Article 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, but does not say who submitted the amendments. So these amendments are signed and should, if we talk about the conclusion, we need to know exactly what the amendments are and who the applicant is. In fact, this passive can be the basis for further discussion that is now being made in an hour. So if Mr Filipović is referring to the amendments submitted by Mr Velimir Jukić, then it should stand in this conclusion. I do not know that they are given in conclusion, nor can it be so to Mr Filipović, you are a lawyer I am not, allow me, the amendments propose one person, the conclusions proposed by another person. Until it's otherwise signed so, given whether or not they're with, I don't know and I can't know tomorrow, especially tomorrow. So, the point is that 40 of us would have discussed this, we need to know what the amendments are, and secondly, it's not true that the House Chairman rejected the amendments, given that at 2:30 today we found that by that time Mr. Chairman had not received any amendments in writing from Mr. Jukić or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1135	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, you see, from the stenogram, it is clear that before the break, when we were working after the first reading, when Mr. Jukić referred to Article 89. 3 and I have elaborated on the reasons that, that these reasons for being submitted, this can also be seen from the stenogram and that we could not know on the Commission that these amendments were previously accepted on the committee responsible for the House of Representatives and that the House of Representatives voted on them. So the fact was that Mr. Jukić was then to submit amendments before the break. Therefore, it is not your objection that you have now received these amendments. You got them now in writing because everyone else in writing got them. Because they are proposed and the debate is open afterwards, which is why all this has happened, which is what we are now discussing, and that is the conclusion that I have suggested. The amendments are clearly Mr. Jukić, and the conclusion is mine. And it is clear from the full debate and also from the stenograms that the amendments tabled by Mr Jukić and not me are being discussed here. No, it doesn't say in the conclusion, it doesn't have to even write because it's completely clear, from the stenogram visible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1137	We're not voting on a stenogram,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1139	You know, I'd love to listen to Mr Filipović, but if we continue with this interpretation, we'll probably discuss the content of the stenogram sometime this afternoon, and then we'll stop the discussion, and we'll look for a stenogram, and we'll wait, and then we'll read from word to word. So, Mr Filipović, let's not discuss this any further. This morning when it started or today at noon when the debate on this point began, it was not about the amendments but about the proposal. And then after that, it tried to be interpreted as an amendment, so that I could ask Mr. President precisely at 2:30. Did you get Mr. Chairman from Mr. Jukić in his written form of the amendment? So, by that minute, nothing was received. Therefore, for me these amendments in the form in which they are now proposed exist from 16:10. At the same time, you gave your conclusion that doesn't match the facts. So you have concluded that it is an amendment, and you are now interpreting that I should read and a stenogram with a conclusion, when I am voting on the conclusion rather than on the stenogram. 41 So it would be natural to conclude that there is at least who the applicant is, because we still vote on the conclusion, if we vote and we don't vote on the stenogram. So I'm saying, I'm asking you nicely to be precise, so that we don't talk any further, but we've had some misunderstandings as to whether the session was 24 or 25. At home, or the Commission, whether this was now before or after noon, whether it was in writing, whether it was Mr Jukić's amendments or someone else's. There's no reason I can't put these things on paper, I can. We can, if we've waited until 16:10, we can get the text of the conclusion that will be clear and accurate. That's number one. Number two, for me, what today is called amendments, so what they're called amendments exists from 16:10 when I saw it in writing. Until then, we talked about this. The last and most important thing is whether today really this one, we have the agenda and discussion of the Rules of Procedure or the Refugees Act. We have to say that this is getting a little bit mildly said, uglyly, that we're arguing this much about the law, that we're discussing other things instead of going to a vote on the text of the law that we have here in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1140	Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1141	I will just repeat the facts that we all know, about noon and 20 minutes, so I would say, at the very beginning of our work after that break that was scheduled at 10 to noon, which lasted about 25 to 30 minutes, I am referring to Article 89(3), and I have suggested that the amendments adopted by the House of Representatives be adopted, I accept as my amendments and that I propose that they be discussed on the basis of Article 89. All of you here today have received these same amendments to the report from the House of Representatives regarding the law in question, with the amendments you received on the benches. When we came here, and I believe many of you before. So, we all had it, beautifully written, and I said at that point that it would become my amendments. That form of me signing the amendments, and copying them on a clean paper list, I did in a break that ended here about half an hour ago. These are the real facts because now whether we have the will of these conclusions that I also consider to be clear and accurate from the bosses of Ilija Filipović, the will to plead and decide on them, or we want to conduct this session differently, or we need to talk about this and have that there is a different course of this session, about this law in question, it is a question for all of us here, and we need to agree on that. I just came out to make it clear, so the fact that we only got this 15 minutes ago, we got it significantly earlier. Now that's all I said I was printed on a clean paper list, with the signature of the one who formally proposed these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1142	Thank you very much, we heard Mr. Jukić, he explained about these amendments. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Genjac, here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1143	I will only, therefore, really warn the fact of the Rules of Procedure. Every MP has the right to propose conclusions and to adopt conclusions. The conclusions may also be proposed by calling on Article 131 as it is done. In the event of a proposal for a conclusion to be called for by Article 131, this means a legislative procedure. Please keep that in mind. Applying to Article 131 means under the legislative procedure. And that is why I believe that, for these reasons, the initiative of the MPs and the proposal for a conclusion is not rejected, in accordance with Article 131 to which it has been called, it is referred to the legislative procedure. The college can't do any different. I do so on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, reading the Rules of Procedure very clearly, it is not possible to do otherwise, and that is my opinion and I warn the flock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1144	Thank you, if we have any further discussions. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1145	So as not to have a dilemma about what the esteemed colleague of Genjac said, and not to lead someone into doubt how to act against the proposed conclusion. The conclusion is quite clear, and if this House accepts it, it opens up the possibility of a amendment debate and the adoption of this law as I have already said. But you would also read the second article of our Rules of Procedure. The conclusion will be binding until the matter is regulated differently by this Rules of Procedure. The conclusion will be applied from the date of adoption, unless otherwise provided. Thus, he will apply today to this matter that makes it clear why, if we adopt him, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1146	Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija. Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1147	I hate to go out again, but I expect for understanding, I expect fellow Spasojević to come out as well. However, in order to clarify and remove possible dilemmas, I would offer a stricter yet logically this judgment which is suggested, that is, to judge what is required of the conclusion. And I therefore think that the conclusion, in fact for those reasons and some others that I would not include now, I believe that the conclusion cannot be offered in the manner in which my colleague Filipović did it in terms of the House's statement, or in terms of the requirement for the House to plead. Since the Chair of the House of People has not applied amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted pursuant to Article 89.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, it is a very important law and the need for its swift adoption and application, by respecting these amendments, referred to in Article 89, through 3 of the House, to the proposal of one of the MPs of the House of People. And the call is based on Article 131, which we have heard read, colleague 43 Genjac has already mentioned, in which case provisions concerning the legislative process apply, and unless they relate to the work of the commission and this second part, which is also read by his colleague Filipović. What exactly is that specific question? Members of Parliament are asked by this conclusion that the College's decision not to accept the new amendments is declared by a special case, a special issue, and that we re-deploy it as a Dom. The College has declared whether or not there are reasons to respect the amendments. The conclusion of our fellow Filipović requires us to make the decision perfectly normal and natural, so far we have had many decisions, or there have been many in the Assembly, declared a special issue and that the House declares it. Gentlemen, this is the only illegal and logical interpretation of why this conclusion is sought, and that is why I believe that this conclusion cannot really come to the House that, in the sense of the request, this implies a statement. Because the College is determined and the subject is actually required by the College's decision. The College's decision is a perfectly normal decision, which we can in no way declare to be a special issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1148	Do we have any further? Is anyone else picking up? Here you go, Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1149	It requires an explanation on its own. He's exactly a 131th member. He's got two bets. Point 1 and point 2. But that's all Article 131. Point 1 also states that the conclusion can regulate a specific issue and in this case the provisions concerning the legislative procedure apply. So, after the legislative procedure, then before, it is referred to the need for these issues to be referred to the legislative procedure. Following that legislative procedure, the conclusion will be adopted or not adopted. And that question will be specifically resolved, and then point 2 is valid that the conclusion will be binding until this Rules of Procedure is resolved differently. And it shall be applied from the day of adoption. However, before that adoption in position 2, a legislative procedure is explicitly ordered. Not this point 2 independent of point 1. It is prescribed in point 1 that a legislative procedure must be implemented and then in point 2 clearly states that it will be worth it from the date of adoption and until otherwise decided. I think we're even more specific.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1150	Thank you very much. I think we're exhausted from this. Here you go. Whatever you want. You can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1151	I'm sorry, but I have one compromise solution, maybe it's not very popular, but to continue with this law to adopt it today may not be popular, but I'm going to take it out to tell you everything. 44 As regards this proposal submitted by Mr Ilija Filipović, the amendment, which was submitted after that proposal, cannot be abolished by the chairman. So that literally meant that in some way this Rules of Procedure is being violated, and we can't do that. But there's a solution to that, too. I propose a club of MPs, or MPs individually, if they don't want to vote on this to come out that this means either unanimously or unanimously that we continue to vote on the law, etc. continue to work further. It's the only exit solution that's at this point. Because none of the parties give up their demands. Those who don't want to vote, or hold back, or come out that the rest of us who are going to be, means it's very feasible that I don't draw it for you. As soon as you get out there won't be a quorum, we move on with this law and it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1152	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I don't think there are any conditions for this proposal to be put to the vote. To vote on this proposal means to undo it in my opinion, cancel the entire Rules of Procedure and that the Assembly may work without the Rules of Procedure in the course of its work. I suggest we go back to the agenda, which is called the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons, and vote for that law in the way that the House of Peoples can do in this case. To vote in favour of the full proposal for the text of the Council of Ministers and normally improved and amended for an amendment adopted by the Legislative Commission and which has become an integral part of this law. I call upon the delegates of this house to vote in favour of this law after the debate has been exhausted. Who's in the proposed text for the law? I think this conclusion. Allow me. I believe that this conclusion derivates a complete regulation, or Rules of Procedure on the work of this Council, of this House. So please be nice. Please, I think it's nice. Please. Just like, please, I'm not that, that's not true and don't do this one. Here we have heard, we have exhausted the discussion. We heard a series of discussions. They, some think this is true, some think it's not true. However, I propose this to Parliament, I propose this to this assembly. The assembly, if it doesn't feel right, doesn't have to, let it vote against. I think so. Here's the president, club chief. I'm not that. Okay, please nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1153	Mr. President, dear colleagues, here's the first time I've heard from you, and I've listened to you very carefully, and I won't bother you for long and we're tired enough about this agenda point. 45 I warn you to the President that this is a violation of the fundamental rights of every envoy here according to your last proposal. If we have any knowledge of this Rules of Procedure here, which we have in the hands of all those who read it, I don't know why we're sitting here and simply taking away the basic rights of every envoy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1154	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1155	I don't want us to end this the way the president imagined, I think we'd be in a very awkward situation to question the rights of the envoys or MPs, delegates as you wish. If this were simple, then we'd probably solve it very, very quickly. We wouldn't spend this much on debates. I think it's right, and it says here in Article 9 and Mr Filipović is invited in the proposal, namely to submit this conclusion to Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People and requests that Article 131 be followed. But it calls for its rights to Article 9 of our Rules of Procedure – that the envoy has the right to initiate and adopt amendments or additions to the Constitution of BiH, the law and other acts as well as the use of other procedures contained in this document. And that is why I believe that there would be no, no good practice at all, it would be a precedent if this request or conclusion of Mr Filipović were simply crossed and treated as if it didn't exist. In our practice so far, it was about the following. All the conclusions that were drawn here as conclusions often in the form of even unspeakable and without written form, we generally always spoke of them. I think it was a good way to work and a good rule. And I think this would be a precedent and it would be the beginning of a very bad practice for the president to take the right to decide and not to. Gentlemen, this is not the right of anyone, our rights and obligations are recorded in the Constitution and in this Rules of Procedure. And also everything that is not precise and defined, we are here invited and empowered and responsible to establish our decisions and our conclusions. And I'm just going to act like one, no different. I'll repeat, I'm afraid any different mode of work will lead us into some unwanted positions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1156	Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1157	Of course, I fully agree with part of the findings issued by my colleague Jukić, which concerns the rights of each MP to propose the conclusions and obligations of this home to determine them. Of course, however, these rules of procedure are regulated as far as these right to propose conclusions are concerned. I would just like to remind you over and over again that putting forward this conclusion actually means breaking this rule, this Rules of Procedure, because Rules 46 of procedure and procedures, and respecting all these shortcomings that she had in the sense that only at 16 o'clock came to us a written proposal of these amendments, the procedure has actually been carried out. The College has declared itself on the amendment proposal. I remind you, I remind you, that once the debate begins, the chair of the consultation with the vice-president will only respect the new amendments in the following cases, when it comes to new aspects, to new aspects. How many new aspects of what we've lost so much time today in the debate, I don't have to speak specifically, but I would really remind you that by putting this conclusion on the plea we're introducing a precedent that is very, very, very, very uncomfortable, not to say dangerous to the work of this home. By putting the statement of this conclusion, we are in fact disproved by the Rules of Procedure simply because, I am sorry to say, my colleague Filipović said so, we are putting it on because the College did not vote in the way it was supposed to vote, that is, the College did not say that we are not now calling on, that we are not looking for a stenogram, because the chairman of the House of Nations did not act as he should have done. You told your colleague Filipović. So if we introduce the practice that today's colleague Filipović, tomorrow Hilmo Neimarlija, the day after tomorrow, is prescribed by colleagues Šiljegović, the conclusions and later, please be careful how the College and the chairman of the College will plead neither from the Rules of Procedure nor from our serious work we have anything. With this conclusion, in fact, if, if we were to declare it, regardless of the outcome, we would give ourselves the right to each MP to request a statement on the decisions of this House and the decisions that are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in question. I am sorry that my colleague, Filipović, is late for my colleague, Jukić, proposing these amendments in good time. However, their delay cannot really be a reason for me to have such a dangerous amendment, a precedent. And so, I call on you to bear in mind the simple fact that with all our good will and willingness, when we have already come to this situation to take care that by making a statement about this conclusion that is subsequently trying and trying to completely change something that is important already from, according to the Rules of Procedure of this House of People, to do something that is very, very unpleasant. And it would, of course, lead to a very dangerous possibility of majorizing and now all these political implications in terms of who's against the law, who's for the law and what's left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1158	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. I still have to go out and say a few sentences. Please, this conclusion, here in conclusion, it is proposed by Filipović to the House of Peoples that the president, the chairman, did not agree whether and did not give his consent to these amendments. It's at the last consultation and it's true and it's true. But I have to say this, and I need to tell this home next, just to make it clearer. We had a college half an hour before the start of this assembly, before the start of this session, and we crossed all points of the agenda for today's session discussed and discussed, discussed and took 47 views. You've set yourself up on dots. One of the points of the agenda that we discussed was this item of the agenda. At that agreement, we agreed to adopt a law that proposed that we go towards adopting the law proposed by the Council of Ministers and with this amendment by Mr Genjac, adopted by the Legislative Commission and became an integral part of this section. As we discussed further, we came to the conclusion that the laws in the text section would differ, and then we talked about it and we agreed whether, when it was up to date to agree, we agreed to choose a committee that would agree on this text and we had already proposed to the people of that legislative commission who should sit immediately after the Assembly or sit down as soon as possible and with the Commission legislative, or the commission responsible for that part of the work in another parliament to agree and to create a single text. It was one conclusion and by the way we went to this session and I think it was what was right. Okay, now these amendments have come up, my colleague with the amendments showed up, and normally on a later agreement I could not accept at all, because we already agreed on one thing, and it was supposed to go like that, and now if we don't fit, we need, we don't fit the law in that and that text, then we need to change the Rules of Procedure. Why? Well, haven't we passed a lot of laws or a few laws in different texts, so these administrative commissions, and the legislative and legal commissions agreed on these texts and agreed. And I think that both this home and those other home made a decision that the Rules of Procedure should be changed and he is in the phase of change. It's quite clear. He's got a lot of drawbacks, and we know that. However, this is not my opinion, this is not a chance to go towards a change of Rules of Procedure in this case. The assignment, or deadlines, can also be fulfilled in such a way that we do not enter into these assignments. I personally think it would be a good idea to vote on a law that is on the agenda and I personally think that the Rules of Procedure of this House was not on the agenda. I think it's skillfully used to go through with some of the things that normal and one here see from these exhibitions that the Bosniak MPs club couldn't vote for. I think we should look for ways and reasons for this law to be adopted and that normal committees of legislative committees agree to this text. I'd ask all my colleagues to think about it one more time, and I think she's fine. I don't think it's a good thing we're trying to outsmart what it's like to outsmart how someone is, how someone's not in favor of some law. I think we're all here to pass the law, but by the procedure that already exists. Changing procedure to pass one law, I don't think it's good. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1159	Thank you very much. I answered because I kept an insufficient sentence from the chairman who wanted to remove a statement about the conclusion I suggested. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1160	Which, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1161	Which you wanted to remove the statement of conclusion that I suggested. If one of the MPs in the current Rules of Procedure finds the provision that the decisions of the College of the House are final, that they are above the decisions made by the House, that these decisions are not subject to discussion in this House, I will withdraw my conclusion. Such a provision does not exist in our Rules of Procedure and there is no establishment of colleagues, distinguished colleagues from the Bosniak people's order that we open one process, but here are the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, if that is one precedent, perhaps there was no need for such precedent so far, we will precisely regulate it in the new Rules of Procedure, so we will remove the possibility of such precedent if someone thinks it is a precedent. So I'm still standing at the point that this conclusion that I have suggested is entirely based on the Rules of Procedure that we have, which we are working on. I am still of the view that we cannot make the decision of the College, according to the Rules of Procedure, it does not stand as final and above the household decisions, but that they are also subject to the debates of the MPs in this House. So I ask that we do not try to get to the point, because it is difficult to find them, almost impossible, that this House be made clear of the conclusion proposed by any representative in this House on any circumstance discussed by our previously respected College that I am extremely esteemed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1162	Excuse me. I don't remember saying anywhere that the conclusion, the conclusion of the College of the House of Nations, is final. And if there is, if you can prove that I said that, I'll apologize for everything. However, it is not good and should not put mouths on people that they did not say. I am also saying that in this Rules of Procedure there is what is said that the decision to accept and not accept these amendments is made by the College. And nowhere has been said and no one has ever told Mr Filipović it's the final decision. This is how it stands, there was no conclusion, whether it was final or final. It's said as it says. I respect all the skills of an extraordinary lawyer, you make it very complicated, but you have to allow people who can be extremely courteous to reason logically and who can well understand all messages and the right to human being is to judge and that's his personal matter. So I don't blame you if you wanted to, I'm going to tell you whether it's well-meaning or not well-intentioned to use maybe my date so I can say what you said I meant or said the college decisions were final. No, I think you made a mistake. Thank you. Yes, Mr Filipović, that's what we heard. Look at the stenogram. I hear well I have good hearing, and it's almost absolute. I have an apology, I, as chairman of 49 of this House of People, have both the right and the obligation of all of you to protect this Rules of Procedure. I think it would be terrible and it would be difficult for this assembly to bring this Rules of Procedure to become a bad document. We are working on this document, it is as important to us parliamentarians as the Constitution. I don't think at this point, without all the knowers, we shouldn't, and we shouldn't change this. Normally, I say we shouldn't be doing this exclusively my opinion. The House has the right to change everything, the House has the right to disband, it is the right to the House whether, the House has the right to amend the Rules of Procedure, the House has the right to change the Constitution, the House has everything. But what happens when he does, is what we do. Does this mean to Mr Filipović that in the next period, I will lead this Parliament without Rules of Procedure, that I will have to accept or that this House will have to accept any proposal from the MPs asking for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, because it cannot be adopted in such a way as to adopt his proposal, or something he wants. I don't think that's good. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1163	The conclusion refers to the particular thing I mean... put in the procedure... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1164	No. I mean that, I have to admit
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1165	..someone's not enough but...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1166	I think MPs must understand, I think that by voting and adopting this one they must understand that they are left without the Rules of Procedure. If we open this debate, then every item of the agenda falls under this, and then for every item of the agenda we have a member, we have this 131, and we have to interpret it as Mr Filipović interprets it. I think that with all Filipović respect and respect, I as a man can be very, very hard to accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1167	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1168	I'll suggest, before this I'll suggest one more break of 10 minutes to make another deal and maybe we'll end up with this home. Here you go, 50.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1169	I would, however, direct the question to the Vice-President, Mr Jukić, to answer whether the College has spoken of the amendments it has proposed, or whether it has been determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1170	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1171	How?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1172	No consensus.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1173	Without consensus, is this the end of the Rules of Procedure, this procedure, as far as the new amendments are concerned?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1174	It is for you, and it is not for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1175	What are you based on that it's not?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1176	To the indeterminate nature of this Rules of Procedure on these matters. That's why I think it's a good idea to talk about it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1177	I'm trying to help my colleague Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1178	'Cause you see, look at this, Mr. Neimarlija, if we were to set things up like we want, it's very easy to happen that it's really starting to happen, and what...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1179	No, on the other hand, I'm just trying to show my colleague Filipović, I think we've witnessed here the willingness to agree, to talk, to find solutions through the agreement. Don't force anything on what the decision has already been made procedurally, fully-relevantly correct. Don't move the possibility of a deal where it's over. That's a bad precedent for a fellow Filipović. My Koleg Jukić, you are too late with the amendments. Appreciation 51
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1180	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1181	That's a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1182	Is it true whether or not the College has set itself up?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1183	That's why we're calling for Article 89(3), which is
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1184	Did the College set himself up?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1185	It is, but I think
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1186	Well, let's not, but, uh, good paura.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1187	I'll take 10 minutes off. I must admit, we have found some compromise, Mr Filipović and I and I are now going to present this compromise to you in the light of the proposal. [[PAUZA]] Since it is about amending the Rules of Procedure, we must firstly know whether or not we are going to vote on amending the Rules of Procedure, that is, here is the proposal for who to vote on Mr Filipović's conclusion to raise the chart. Whom it is to vote on Mr Filipović's conclusion, in other words, it is me, to vote whether to vote for Mr Filipović's conclusion, should we vote for Mr Filipović's conclusion, on the conclusion, is. 7 MPs is in, who's against? Who's restrained? So we have the entity majority whether, so we're voting on this conclusion by Mr. Filipović. Who is to conclude Mr Filipović in the form proposed by Mr Filipović? 6 Who's against it? Who's restrained? So 5 against, so the conclusion went well. 52 Second, since we have discussed everything about the law that could be discussed, it is on the agenda to vote on the law of pardon for amendments to this law or amendments signed or delivered by Mr Jukić. I think we should vote individually on each amendment. Should I read the amendments, or we've all read them well. Here is Amendment I, Article 22(2), the word is deleted – on behalf of and replaced by words – with consent. In the same attitude in the last word, the word is deleted – the Council of Ministers and replaces the word – the Presidency. The last paragraph also deletes the word – the Council of Ministers is replaced by a word – the Presidency. Item 2 of this article behind the text – and the government of the Brcko district of Bosnia and Herzegovina proposes a new sentence to be inserted by a member of the Commission – the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees is required to be one of the members in front of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here's the amendment and I'll put this amendment to the vote. Who's in favor of this amendment? Seven's in. Who's against it? Who's restrained? 1nd Amendment, therefore the amendment has been adopted. The II amendment, in accordance with Article 24(a), adds a new, second position – the director, the President of the Commission and the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees should be representatives of all three constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much, so the amendment has been adopted. Amendment III in Article 24(b)(2) deletes the words - consultations with the Commission and replaces the words - the consent of the Commission. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? So, Hasane, did you vote? You were against three against. Amendment IV to Article 30, which, amendment IV and what is now disputed, Article 30, which becomes Article 27 under Article 12. The proposal for a law is replaced and reads – this law takes effect 8 days from the day of its publication in "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina". 53 Who is for this amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. So this amendment has also been adopted. Now I'm giving the law to be declared, so the law in the text, please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1188	We attended an act that doesn't personally delight me, I kept warning that the Rules of Procedure should not be violated. We attended an act of majorization, of course, which is also not good for one club to remain outvoted. I don't think that's good for future practice, but it happened. However, given the law, the importance of the law of ambition that this law has among other things and the establishment of a commission, the establishment of an ambition fund to act on this very important plan of unity, in order to achieve as much transparency as possible and the need for the law to be published as soon as possible in "The Servant's Messenger". I, as the promoter of the amendments that I have submitted to the House of Peoples and at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that amendment has been accepted, therefore accepted, that this amendment therefore, since in the first instance of the Amendment I that we adopted and adopted in the House of Representatives, is in some way inconposing. I accept that my amendment is fully in line with the first position of the Amendment I from the House of Representatives and thus removing the need to move the Joint Commission. I ask you to keep that in mind, which of course means that for all these reasons, besides all these bitter facts, I will uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1189	No, no. So here's the one we agree on. I have one thing. I think that, therefore, we suggest that Mr. Genjac's proposal be accepted as he suggested. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? There's no one here. So Mr. Genjac's amendment in the text as stated in, as he accepted it, how the House of Representatives accepted it. So now I have to propose to the House of People for the adoption of the Law as adopted by the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and as we have also adopted with these amendments that we have adopted today. Who's in favor of the law? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you very much. It means the law was unanimously passed. Thank you, dear colleagues. 54 Please, here they were, here we skipped one item of the agenda and waiting for someone from the Council of Ministers to come, that's this part of the agenda of the third, just so I can find it so I can read what it's called. Ad. 3. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure Which of the Council of Ministers has to do with this law, i.e. this item of the agenda? Is anyone here to explain, and is there a need to explain? It's nobody. Thank you very much. This point is off the agenda. They are heading this point for the next session of the agenda, and please warn the ministers, or the people of the ministry, to come to the session when discussing their agenda points. Now let's go to the 10th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Ten. Proposed by the BiH Air Force Act, first reading –proposer of the Council of Ministers Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who can tell us a few sentences about this point. Here you go, pal. What's his name? If it won't be difficult for you to introduce yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1190	Dear Chairman, members of the presidency, MPs and others present in the hall, I am Đorđe Racković, adviser to the Minister of Communications and Transport. Appreciate your time, I'm just going to brief you on the basic reasons for making this bill. Namely, we are based on the constitutional basis contained in Article 3(1) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under which flight control is in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the constitutional basis is the same as in the current Air Force Act, and based on the European Commission and OHR's demands... The danger of the project in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other international aviation institutions for the need to amend and supplement the existing aviation law in order to harmonize it with the regulatory aircraft that is in the EU and because of the need to comply with the provisions of the existing Law with the amendments to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry and Institutions Act have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to amend and supplement the existing Aviation Act. Since a large number of these amendments and additions have made it difficult to apply the Law in practice, at the meeting... The civil aviation committee chaired by the OHR has reached a unanimous conclusion that a consolidated text of the law is to be made in fact to give a new draft law. The development of this law co-ordinated by the OHR was attended by four entity ministries, the Ministry of Communications and 55 transports by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Civil Aviation Directorate and the Civil Aviation Directorate. Thus, the draft text is fully in line with all relevant civil aviation institutions. In short, I will only remind you of certain legal solutions given in the new text of the law. The provisions of Article 2 have established one air authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The provisions of Articles 5 to 10 set out the precise responsibilities and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Directorate of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The provisions of Article 1l. Article 13(5) and Article 18(1) shall determine the competences and responsibilities of the entity directors for civil aviation. The provisions of Article 9 are more precise and more clearly defined in the provisions of the Act which regulate inspection. The provisions of Chapter IV are more precise and more clearly defined in the provisions of the Law which regulate registration, state membership and registration codes of aircraft. The provisions of Chapter V are more precise and more clearly defined in the provisions of the Law which regulate the conditions for the safe use of aircraft and aircraft. The provisions of Chapter VII are more precise and more clearly defined in the provisions of the Law which regulate air services and aircraft operators. The provisions of Chapter XIII have defined criminal measures for breach of the provisions of the Law, as well as the competent authority for air violations which previously did not exist in the Law. And there has been an improvement in the definitions of the provisions of the other members of the Law. In the end, I will only remind you that the adoption of this law does not require the need to introduce a new budget user, given that we, even under the old law, have had a directorate which is about a number of people still envisaged to function and operate as it was under previous laws. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1191	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Raković's statement. Here I am putting this bill on whether, in the first reading of the debate. Please, who's answering for the word? Mr. Hasan Čengić. Is that the Commission? It's on behalf of which committees apologize,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1192	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, which is responsible for these issues as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1194	It's the committee responsible for these matters. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1195	Here's Mr. Hasan Čengić, on behalf of the air force's competent commission, in the area of traffic.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1196	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, remained present, the Commission also discussed this law at a session of 25.9 this year and in a very open discussion with the proposing representatives, i.e. The Council of Ministers discussed almost, and 2/3 of the members and individually and the Commission's position is next. This law is necessary. The proposal is therefore, the text of the law delivered to the Commission represents a complete solution, a modern solution. It is at the level of European and world standards that are necessary for this area of regulation and in the way that the Law on movement and residence and asylum of foreigners has resolved the issue of entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in the same way, we are addressing all issues related to the use of air passages from the airspace and everything else related to air movement or air travel at airports, or airports. We individually expressed abstention to some solutions in terms of nomotechnics. We have made suggestions and suggestions that some of the formulations that existed in this version that we have been provided with repairs, which the representatives of the Council of Ministers have accepted, but at the same time two groups of amendments have appeared. So our commission has been informed that the House of Representatives passed this law with two amendments, and then our colleague Dr. Luka Radovanović accepted these amendments in order to go to have these amendments in our home, to be closer to the text of the law adopted at the House of Representatives, and after discussing four members and proposals and suggestions that I have given as a delegate in this House and a Member of the Commission, the Commission also accepted these amendments, i.e. four amendments, and thus with these six amendments, the Commission accepted the text in full and proposed to this House to accept the text of the Council of Ministers in addition to the amendments adopted on the Commission. If necessary, Radovanović and I can explain the amendments that have been proposed, and I hope they have all been delivered to you on the benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1197	Thank you very much. We heard the Commission's position and the proposals. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? Not that I can see. I think we should now adopt this text of the law in the first reading. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. There's no need to ask who's abstention and who's against it? Thank you. The 57 11th point of the agenda is Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1198	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1199	I would ask Hasane to, forgive me, I would pray there is one principle that we adopted just to avoid these committees to wait for him to adopt the House of Representatives, and then we in the next session will go the way we will go. I think this is okay and thank you. So there will be no problem in adopting this law at the second session. I beg simply from, for the principles that we have set for it to be so. Thank you very much. Proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers. Do we have a reporter on behalf of the Council of Ministers? Do we have on this point on the court fees of the rapporteur on behalf of the Council of Ministers? We don't. We're taking it off the agenda. He's gone. We're taking it off the agenda. Please, that's what we agreed on, Mr. Spasojević. Oh, Halida, we've decided if it's on this point, we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1200	I would still suggest we consider the law in the first reading. To make that effort. I've been here as a representative of the authority, and I've seen the promoter all day. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know, but given the number of laws and the job that's waiting for us. So it's our sovereign right to decide if we're going to consider it. I suggest we do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1201	Thank you very much. I disagree and I suggest that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1202	Put it to a vote. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1203	He can't. I have something as right as the president of the House. Please don't. If it is, please, Hasan, I'm not in the mood to make a fuss and make a scene and theater out of this congregation. I think the principle taken by the College is that the agenda points on which there are no ministers from the Council of Ministers are removed from the agenda. It's a principle. Please nice, I'd like to ask you to keep it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1204	So, Mr. Chairman, by respecting your person, I wouldn't agree to the character that you just said someone was making a circus and a theater, but I'm present at something that in some classes might have looked like that and it took four hours. The honorable gentleman who sat here persistently waiting for us to agree on a long-agreed deal, to agree on a Rules of Procedure that was long ago, naturally got the impression that we would not agree on it, that it would take forever. The man's gone, and we're training strictness now. So now we're training strictness. I don't mind if we could handle a much more serious thing the way we acted, and we have a bill here, so I have very simple and very logical reasons why I think we should work. On the other hand, it is necessary to inform the promoter that they must be prepared to sit with them whether overtime is paid or not. But this time, since this is the first time in eight months that I've known we're sitting up until this time, in complete, so we're all sitting here working, etc. I can understand the gentleman that he thought that actually that point of his will not come to the agenda. So, I have no intention of disabling anyone here, but I think the question of the law is a serious thing and I think we should see, no, still respecting the principle, so still respecting the principle, but I consider this to be really one situation that has not been common until now. If it was two o'clock in the afternoon, I'd be all together. But if it's almost seven o'clock now and someone's not there, because he thought his act really wouldn't come to the agenda, that was my reason. At the very least, I wasn't building a theater. I don't want it to qualify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1205	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1206	Mr. Chairman, I apologize, but I'd like to say a few words. I support Mr Čengić, and I think it is justified for this law to be passed in the first reading for the reason that we proposed to the Commission on administrative and financial affairs that they should also carry out with the House of Representatives. So this proposal to go to the House of Representatives, and also to the House of Peoples, since they were already in the first reading, I think there is no need for us to be late and that we can, is the reason Mr. Čengić put out to accept and that 59, this time, as an exception, is, because this law is important for us to pass because still the funds in the budget, or the funds would be collected for a court that does not have enough resources to work anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1207	Here's Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1208	I'm back to respecting our agreement and the principles that we seem to have proposed to me the College, and this home has adopted. I think it was our first session. And I wouldn't be the one, I don't think it's anything, so it's not a request for a shortened, nor for a quick procedure, and I would go along with this according to our current agreement, the principle that we want him to be present as a proposing. Why is it particularly important here, the law is important and we are in the competent commission, Mr. Spasojević has had one general remark, and this is at the level of these means of fees. And the law is also about fees. And to me it was very interesting, I think it was necessary and necessary for our discussion and our thinking, not only of us members of this committee, but also of all other interested parties who are interested in discussing this problem to hear the promoter and that this law can be adapted or if he thinks we should adapt to these discussions, adapt it and that in another reading we have and in something different perhaps a part of these heights. And that's why I think this is also an additional reason why we're not really considering this law today without the introductions of the promoters, and yet in order to get a quality law that doesn't happen to us as we have here today in the agenda one law that we've passed, I don't know, and I don't think in this year, we're changing it again. I think that sometimes our desire to do something quickly and it should be quick and efficient, but it's even more important to be, to give you our laws or just to make our contribution to creating these laws so that they can be as good as they can be. And that's why I think we should either stay on this one to stay with our decision, the conclusion that, apart from the exceptions, that's when it comes to sometimes some urgency, etc. that we consider this law and everything else and that they are explained to us by the promoters. So without proposing that we don't consider laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1209	Thank you very much. I have dear colleagues here to serve the Rules of Procedure. Within the framework of its rights and duties set out in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the law of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is up to its representative to take part in the sessions of the House, the House College and the House Commission. Please, if we're just going to rip up this Rules of Procedure and say we don't have a Rules of Procedure anymore. Here you go. And I want an answer to that question. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1210	Privately, whoever finds it interesting to see Rome burn, buy a postcard and burn and watch. Privately who's interested in taking down the Rules of Procedure can get out of the O.R. to do it, so he can buy another copy. As long as there is this home and there is no change in the Rules of Procedure on it, then, Mr Pamuk, I ask you to get serious again, I ask you to participate in the serious and work. So that question about what anyone thinks about the Rules of Procedure is already answered and we've listened to the arguments and I think now we can all know very precisely what is whose position it is. Very precise to know whose position it is. I am now asking Mr. Jukić - if this were the same situation, if there were no proposing representatives, and if the OHR had sent a letter of three rows to this important law, would Mr. Jukuć have the attitude he had just before and would he have remained principled, as he did this time? So gentlemen, let's train principle overall, not just on some cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1211	Thank you very much. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1212	Here's what I'm going to answer very precisely. My attitude and thinking on this matter is as follows. Whenever we have and when we have a request from the Council of Ministers that some law be considered by an urgent or shortened procedure, I hate to but don't even comment on it, estimating that whoever it is, so the Council of Ministers has requested such a procedure, I accept that procedure. However, I also respect sometimes the arguments of international representatives, of course, that never cheers me up, but this time I really don't think we're in any particular hurry, and that's why at least when we're not from anyone else in some way we're talked about or forced to honor what we're doing here. If this is an illusion of something else, I assure you that I am really here and that I will ultimately respect all our agreements and decisions, as well as our Rules of Procedure and everything else that we here arrange and bring documents like Dom, or I don't know either the commission or the College, etc. And that's what I'm saying here, and in the future, we're going to see how we're going to personally and we're all going to act together, and I think if this is the result of maybe one anger and so on, I don't think there's any reason. I think that today we have come up with one result, although perhaps the way that I am and I will be honest here, I mean this law that has already passed, I apologize, I've come out of the context of this point a little bit, but we've come to a good, effective solution. The question is whether the solution is better with these amendments that have been adopted or not. But I think it's good, I just said that to the press, and it's good for both of us. I personally think this with this 61 amendment is better. However, without these amendments, the law would be quite sufficient, so that one should not be watched that someone has won or lost a lot. We've all got if it's something of quality, I think it's quality done today, to pass this important law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1213	Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1214	Dear colleagues, chairman, I don't see any particular reason for the fever. Indeed, there are provisions in the Rules of Procedure that representatives of the Council of Ministers come to attend. I totally respect that. However, there is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure that the law is forbidden to consider if there is no proposing. So we have a college conclusion that we won't be discussing the issue unless there's an authorised promoter. I fully aware of all the facts that I state and which you have cited and respecting these facts, I have had one proposal which is to make an exception and that this law is being considered. Explanation. Under 1. Every law is very, very important and important to us in general. Under 2. There is a need, established on the competent commission, for certain harmonisation between the two homes to be made so that the laws can be found in the same procedural phase and that it could be done more productively. Under 3. The authorising officer was present on the committee and heard comments. Under 4. We can make certain remarks that we have to deliver to the promoter and on the stenogram that has been held here, and for these reasons, my proposal does not go anywhere and no, it has the ambition to change things in the Rules of Procedure, to do anything against, I am not calling for Article 131, I am not referring to any member, but in the course of the debate on the law, I would only suggest that, in relation to one conclusion, we make an exception for those reasons. I think that would be useful, because all of this, all of these dilemmas that exist to us, if we make that precedent, are decisive, because I've stated how I can get rid of them. And that is why I would ask for a way out of this situation, Mr. Chairman, simply to put this proposal to the vote. We have no other way out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1215	Okay. Here you go. Forget this guy's name. Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about this problem, I'm just going to analyze what we did today. We have 28 points of the agenda, we've reached 11 points. If, for me, I don't know about you, since the 12th session here at the House of Peoples, this is the hardest for me, I don't know about you. So there's a certain fatigue here that can be seen from the discussion itself. I don't know how we're going to think at the 28th point and whether we're going to be ready to make a quality decision. 62 Therefore, Mr. President, I suggest that we continue our work at home tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1217	Thank you very much. Okay. I beg you, excellent. Who's to discuss this, this agenda point, to bring about adoption? It is, to consider this law. Who's restrained? Who's against it? Thank you very much. So, they're going to discuss the Dom, and we're going to discuss this point. Mr. Čengić, will you explain this? Who can? Here you go, Zoran.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1218	Well, I don't know how much I can explain. I'm not in a position to explain it in front of the promoter. However, I will convey some of the thoughts that the Commission has made and the conclusions it has given to the promoter that he should present to us today, so that we can decide on that in the first reading. The Commission has debated this law and considers that this law, since the laws in courts have already been passed, must be followed by the Law on judicial fees, it is logical and there is no dispute to keep it. We didn't, as far as the law itself is concerned, we didn't have any major objections except for Article 22, which speaks directly about the level of taxis that are taxed here. We tasked the promoter to look at it a little bit with our proposals whether it is, we felt that this was still too high a level of taxis like this and we felt that most citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would not be able to pay this kind of tax and that they would slow down the court proceedings so that with this proposal we went to bring some more quality, that is to say, to offer us some other solutions that would be presented here in front of MPs who would finally give a word about it. So basically, we thought that these rates were a little higher, and I suggest that we bring this in our first reading, because there are no proposings, and that we wait for the Proposer to come out with his complete proposal and that in the second reading, along with his proposal and our suggestions to bring it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1219	Is anyone else coming to the hearing? So there's no argument. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1220	I've already spoken to you before, and it's really also my remark on this law, it's about the height of these tariffs. I believe that if you closely followed that amount of a thousand, five, and ten thousand KM is too much, bearing in mind our overall, 63 particularly social situation and the opportunities of those who would be able to submit certain requests for this court of Bosnia and Herzegovina for complaints. And that is why I believe that the proposer would have to take more care of the real opportunities of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to reconsider this article 22 and that these tariffs, I would say adapt to the real and real opportunities of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we live in a country where 200 marks are retired, the average salary around, between 400 and 500 marks and indeed anything that is 10 to 20 times greater than that amount is too great for our citizens who will then be unable to seek their right to protect their rights through this court.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1221	Thank you very much. Do we still have someone who's having an argument? There isn't. Thank you. So we're going to the adoption of this law in the first reading. Who's in? Who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1222	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1223	Well, that's what you're gonna do. Great. Thank you very much. Who is to this conclusion to send this committee's position to the Council of Ministers to consider harmonising the law with those views? It's a proposal for a tariff. Who's in? Unanimity. There's no need to ask who's against or who's abstention. So you're going. Dot 12 is Ad. 12. Giving consent to ratifications of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in the Customs Area – is the BiH Presidency's proposal Is There a Proposer? Let's do it the same way. Is there a commission? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1224	So the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy has considered the proposal for this agreement and has made a proposal to this House to adopt this Agreement. It is the essence of an agreement of renegade into two important functions. The first is the establishment of good co-operation in customs activities since the determination of goods, tariffs and offences and 64 Second Co-operation, future co-operation in all new technologies, ways of detecting violations in this area, etc. which is, in fact, the opening of an opportunity to ensure, on a background of common international bilateral co-operation, co-operation in the field of customs controls, at the establishment, to identify all the elements that benefit both countries for quality implementation of customs duties on the one hand and the other. For all reasons, we believe that this agreement should be agreed upon and that is what we propose to our home.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1225	Thank you very much. Here you have heard the Commission's position properly. The agreement was ratified, adopted and ratified by the House of Representatives at the 18th session held on 10.9th of this year. Is anyone else picking up? There isn't. Who is for the adoption of this ratification agreement? Who's against it? Who's restrained? So unanimous. It's unanimous, so many are present. The 13th point is Ad. 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the international transport of passengers and goods in road transport – Proposed by the BiH Presidency Report of the competent commission. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1227	So this proposal on ratification of the agreement, too, has been considered by our commission at the same session of 25th and considers that it should be supported and suggested that this House give its consent, because we believe that this agreement actually regulates a series of issues that have been open or that may have even caused certain problems and ambiguities in the functioning of the two countries. As the exchange of goods and passengers between these two countries develops and continues to grow, this agreement certainly is a good basis for regulation and relations. If you'll excuse me, I have another suggestion. So with our proposal, the suggestion is as a member, or a member of this House, or a delegate, not as a Commission, because the Commission has not spoken of it, so the Commission has proposed to the House to give its consent to this agreement. 65 My suggestion is, I would ask the House to declare in this regard that after giving consent to this agreement, the Council of Ministers shall be tasked to comply with this law, or in operations which are on the ground of this hour. I'll be very clear. It is that there are a large number of enterprises from Republika Srpska that have various bus lines towards the former federal Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro, as the state is now called, while the Federation of Such, by this time, does not have such lines. So it would be good if, on the basis of this agreement, between the two entities, co-ordinated by the Council of Ministers, a kind of consensus. The assessment is that this agreement is actually a good basis for this and that it will make it possible, and the other side has no reason to consider anyone at risk because passengers choose carriers and not anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1228	Thank you. You heard the Commission's position. Are there any debaters? Who is to give consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on international transport of road passengers and goods in road transport? Is anyone against it? Is there anyone who's restrained? Thank you very much. It's unanimous, then. The conclusion is that, therefore, we propose to adopt a conclusion drawn by the Commission, Hasan Čengić, personally, to make arrangements, to harmonise transportation from the Federation, that is, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Who's in? Well, let it be, uh, harmonized, what's the matter? Who's against it? There's no one here. So it's unanimous. Well, okay, but this is a deal that gives them the right to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1229	Point 14 of the agenda. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Ad. 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Social Insurance – Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received a report from the competent commission. Social security. Here you are, Mr. President of the Commission, Mr. Spasojević. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1230	The Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs at its meeting held on 23.9. considered this agreement to be very important because it affects a large number of citizens on the one hand and believes that this agreement should be ratified as soon as possible because it will meet many citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1231	Thank you very much. Here's what we heard to the Commission. Are there any debaters? Do we have a quorum? We have a quorum. I have the right to ask. Who is to give consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Social Insurance? Unanimity. So it was unanimously adopted. The next 15th item of the Ad agenda. 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia – and there is a proposal for the BiH Presidency to hear the Commission's report. Have a seat, Hassan. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1232	Therefore, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy has considered this agreement and proposes to the House to accept and ratify it. We believe that this is an important step in regulating therefore and air traffic between the two neighbouring countries. And here's since we've already agreed to the Road Transport Agreement we've also had a vote on this aviation law. So this comes in some way as one whole, and we think that we need to give consent to the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1233	Thank you very much. We heard the Commission's statement, the President of the Commission. Do we have a debate? Who is to give consent to ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Unanimity. Thank you very much. 67 point 16 of the Ad agenda. 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments – the BiH Presidency is the Competent Commission. Anybody here? Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1234	The Commission also discussed this proposal for a ratification between BiH and the Republic of Hungary and the improvement and reciprocal protection of investments proposed by the BiH Presidency at its 9th session, and I am particularly pleased that last year, while I was an MP in the House of Representatives, I struggled that when these agreements were signed, this word was put on "reciprocal" and I am glad that we put it between a single country and we had some reciprocity. Some countries did not allow it, and some of them who explained it to me in front of the Presidency did not convince me that this is good, although there are no words, I think this is extremely good, because this word means a lot, and the Commission is proposing that this agreement be ratified, or adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1235	Thank you very much. Are there any debaters? There isn't. Who is it that this agreement on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the promotion and protection of investments is adopted? Who's in? You don't mind? There's no one abstentioned? So unanimous. So the 17th point is Ad. 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Republic of China on the promotion and protection of investments – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1236	The Commission also considered this proposal at the same session and considered that this proposal for ratification should have been adopted for the reason that China is a large country in which our country, if anything had to be exported, is the word if it only exported needles, we would be rich. If every Chineseman would buy from the Bosnians, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and one needle, I think we'd be a rich country so it's very useful that with these countries where we can sell something to make a deal and co-operation. Thank you. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1237	Thank you very much. Who's in favor of ratifying this agreement? Unanimity. Thank you very much. The 18th point of the agenda is Ad. 18. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision to ratify the Development Credit Agreement (Project and Forest Protection) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for IDA Development – the Commission is in charge of the presidency of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1238	The Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House also discussed this item of the agenda at its 9th session and considers that it is a development loan and that it is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina and suggests that this House ratifies it, i.e. to accept it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1239	Thank you very much. Are there any debaters? There isn't. Who is it that we agree to ratify the proposal for a decision to ratify the IDE-BiH Development Credit Agreement? I didn't see some of them vote. Thank you very much. So unanimous. Ad. 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Development Credit (Project of Technical Assistance for Social Insurance) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1240	The Commission also considered this proposal for this item of the agenda and considered that this word on the development loan of technical assistance for social security, and we believe that this proposal should also be ratified and that we are not going out here, I will immediately say about the proposal... on ratification of the development loan - The Small Commercial Business Development Project, etc. between BiH and the World Bank, the IDA International Association for Development and we believe that it is also useful and that this should also be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1241	It's not on the agenda. Leave it for another time. Don't forget. 69 Thank you very much. Here's the report from the Commission. I'm asking my colleagues to vote if there are no debaters. Who's in? Thank you very much. There's no one here. The President of the Commission why are you? Thank you very much. It means unanimous. Ad. 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey on Social Insurance – is also the proposal of the BiH Presidency I ask the Commission. Mr. Čengić, it is you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1242	We did. So our commission was considering the agreement. Since it is a common agreement between the two countries that regulates relations in matters of health insurance, social security of work, etc. The Commission unanimously took the position to propose to the House that this agreement be ratified because it only actually enables better communication and facilitates the life of citizens of one country in another or stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1243	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Čengić and his commission. Who is to give consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey on Social Insurance? Unanimity. No one's against it. Thank you very much. Point 21 is Ad. 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Co-operation in the field of culture – Proposer of the BiH Presidency Is there a commission here? Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1244	There is a commission present that believes that culture is never enough for us and that the development of cultural co-operation between the two friendly countries that have been in the same country for a long time, so we have a lot of interest in developing this culture. Under this agreement, there is no obligation or obligation of any state in general, but better cultural co-operation and exchange are allowed, and we believe that we are proposing therefore to the House to give consent to this agreement. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1245	Thank you very much. That's what you tell Hilmo Neimarlija that you don't have enough culture. Who's in favor of this agreement? Thank you very much. Anybody got any abstentions? Do you mind? Ad. 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the co-operation of small and medium-sized enterprises – Proposer of the Presidency
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1246	Therefore, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered this decision and proposed to the House to give its consent. It is one good initiative that should lead to the establishment of a joint commission between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Italy that would further consider all possible forms of improvement of co-operation between Alih and medium-sized enterprises. We all know that Italy is one of the most developed countries in the world, and Italy is the speciality of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we think that giving consent to such a memorandum would be helpful so that the Council of Ministers who are here at this time would not be present, and who will lead further affairs to speed up the activities on the formation of a commission provided by this memorandum to begin to benefit concretely from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1247	Thank you very much. We heard the Commission's position and you heard this proposal. Who is it that we can adopt the Memorandum, ratify the memorandum and make this proposal that the Komisja has said? We're all in. Thank you very much. Ad. 23. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility on 31.12.2000. Do we have any. Here you go. Who's the Commission? What now? Is everyone the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1248	We've been considering this as a competent commission. We don't decide who's in charge, so let me know.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1249	Excellent, Mr. Čengić. And you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1250	So very briefly. Mr. Kumalić, therefore Mr. Kumalić is here, I have no objection to him giving explanations. I'm only afraid if he starts to interpret all these numbers that we have here that will take longer than that 9th point from today. Very briefly, so we thank the Council of Ministers for responding to prepare the report. The report is complete, although the Commission's remark was that the information for us would be interesting if we had information after 31.12.2002, so we agreed about the following. Our commission believes that it would be useful within 2 to 3 months of today for the competent ministry to prepare an Abdajt, so the latest information on the balance of payments and to inform us on this and secondly, we have found two facts in the panel's debate. The Council of Ministers, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, neatly repays its obligations, which are relatively high for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but make Bosnia and Herzegovina medium-indebted countries, so we are not in some unbearable situation. However, in order for this situation to change, the key thing is, we cannot reduce debt by any further negotiations, but we must secure greater income in the state register to make it easier to pay the existing debts. In order to ensure that, after a very serious and exhaustive discussion, it was concluded that the best way to speed up privatisation was, in fact, to attract even greater foreign investment. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to take a number of very serious measures, i.e. a whole set of activities not only of the Council of Ministers and Parliament, but also of the whole state. In this respect, it has been concluded, among other things, that certain legal measures need to be adopted, i.e. certain projects. We have agreed with the competent ministry, i.e. a representative of the promoters, to prepare within two, two and a half months the proposals which are priorities within the meaning of the laws to be adopted at both homes, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly, which means that the Council of Ministers will work rapidly on these legislative projects to allow at least this legislative aspect of the regulation of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina to further attract foreign investment. We believe that there is room for us to be optimistic if we work more, but this current situation is not very satisfactory because because of the existing debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually not in a position to continue to be in debt, so then the indirect way to get more money in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, in fact, only Eftia, or the direct foreign investment. In this regard, we think that this is a good start of co-operation between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly to monitor this very important issue, which is external debt. We have also talked about internal debt and we believe that the internal debt should first be discussed on the commissions and then find other ways to talk before final decisions are made, because decisions are very serious and of course necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they are very serious and must be ensured a high degree of political and each other's consensus. Thank you very much. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1251	Thank you very much. Yeah, we got it right here. Please, can I just do it? Come on. I thought you were our ambassador. Your next act. Thank you very much, Ambassador.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1252	I just want to say that sometimes when pots get mixed up, it turns out good. And here's what. I don't know what reason they've been discussing both committees, I guess this commission I'm leading with my board members, but here it is. That session she was at wasn't Mr. Proposer. We are, however, from some of the agreements that we have set between ourselves, not to take down this item of the agenda, but to direct it to this home so that the House can make a statement, simply to discuss it with the fact that it is likely that the promoter felt that he was in front of one commission, that there is no need to be in front of another commission, but I don't think that we are the Commission for Administrative and Financial Affairs and we should have full insight into this country's responsibilities and internal, and also the outside, so that we think that in the next period we should have a proposal to come before us and to discuss it first and to exchange an opinion, and then to come to the House together to adopt it. But thank God, the promoter is here before us, and Mr. Čengić has explained some of the things that he has explained to them on their committee, I think it has been useful and that, now it will be useful to tell us directly here in front of the House certain things, and that we will not plead, but that we have as information as to what the current situation is, the current precedent in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the state of 31.12.2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1253	Thank you very much. I'd like to beg the gentleman outside the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1254	I thought it wouldn't be necessary, but here I am in the shortest lines. For every country, it's unusually important how she is, what her duty is. Because the country's debt depends on its macroeconomic stability, financial stability and its fiscal position. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina, last year's external debt amounted to 4,045 million. This debt this year tends to drop, otherwise it makes 34.8% of the social gross product. I took the social gross product data from the latest statistics and it amounts to a gross domestic product of 11.627 million. So that's the latest statistical data if you're somewhere in your information it's a little different. Looking at this percentage as otherwise measured, the participation of the debt in Bosnia and Herzegovina's social gross product falls within the middle-indebted countries. Otherwise, to point out that the criteria in the EU of countries wishing to join the EU are required to be below 60% of their responsibilities and that their gross deficit is less than 3% of their budget deficit. Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to have better information. 73 However, without delay to point out that in this duty, in general when it comes to duty, it should be in mind and internal, an internal debt which I should mention only to work by expert groups together with the International Monetary Fodna they have prepared a law that will quickly come to this Parliament to introduce an embargo on moratorium for application, judicial judgments and so on, and that they have a task by the end of this year to propose a resolution of the internal debt. So when we have the exact number of the internal debt, then we'll be able to say more specifically about the total debt. To point out, overall duty is not high if it is well managed. So when it comes to external debt management is well, 235 million were paid in the last year, in this year 324 million and per rebalancing remained the same debt, and according to the projection next year, 296 million and it will remain there for the next 15 years. So somewhere around 300 million to the current level of external duty. I know you're interested, but the Federation is 64% or 2 billion 613, Republika Srpska 35.4%. I, uh, could talk a lot about this, but I know you're exhausted. Just to point out that the basic characteristic of our debt is that it is very favourable, concesual that these loans are in their character from the point of view of time, that they are long-term and that, by the problem of the borrowing strategy, only projects should be in charge of projects justifiable only for projects that can repay this one, credits. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as regards the state debt, the government's debts should now join the European Development Bank, meet the conditions, it adopted on the Council of Ministers and this Decision and from these funds would mainly finance the development of small and angry enterprises, crisis areas, where it means a return. I don't know if anyone wants to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1255	I thank you, I think it's quite enough, so gentlemen MPs have got this line mostly know what it is and here I think it's a pretty good situation, that it's not as black as we thought, but here I am opening the debate and I think colleagues, here you go Mr. Jukić is going to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1256	I thought I'd stick with that one, but I couldn't apologize for missing it, so I'm gonna ask. It seems to me that you mentioned the total G-di-pi on some of the latest data. I'm very interested in how we can have such different data. I'm glad if what you've just said is true, because we've had a chance these last half-year, at least I've been available, working with some other data, so I'd ask here, I'm really just going to have 2-3 more questions, not to comment at all on anything, so in the opening notes or here writing the provisions, in point 2, we're talking about an unregulated old debt here, I think it would be a good thing to explain one of the two sentences. Also clarify data on the borrowing of lower units, therefore, from canton to municipalities to municipalities. Well, here's just those three questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1257	Thank you, 74.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1258	When I spoke about participation in the social gross product, I pointed out that the statistics were 10 days ago, came to us and that the social gross product was 11 billion 627 million, and according to earlier data it was 10 billion and 400 million. And that's why the automatic participation went down. Even if you're looking for it, probably now I'm free to say, our social product gross social product is higher, given that global statistics are taking a high percentage of the population, is by my estimate and the number of residents using statistics 3 million and 800, I personally think that the population in BiH is now smaller. So you would, but those relationships if we took it anyway mean official statistics. Otherwise, when it comes to debt, it should be borne in mind that the International Monetary Fund or the Council of Ministers, together with other bodies, manages public debt and that it is forbidden for us to say debt, both to state entities and to all lower levels, both cantonal and municipal. And that we must fully respect the Memorandum of Financial and Economic Policy. A supplementary memorandum was made these days, which will be adopted in October by the International Monetary Fund Management Board. Then we'll have a clearer situation or else we'll settle our internal debt, and generally how we behave. I must point out that the borrowing will mean, in addition to only these extremely favourable loans from the Development Bank, the European Development Bank, where we are most favoured, but that future borrowing will be business, means commercial loans. So the government debt should practically stagnate or slightly grow.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1259	Thank you. I think that's enough. Thank you Ministar, I think it's quite said here, that here there are no debates, and I suggest we accept this information and thank the Council of Ministers for this, for this information and normally we expect that they will report to us on a regular basis and we want them and us to give our obligations and our monetary shallows to be as good and quality as possible. Thank you, thank you very much. We're on Ad.24 now. Consideration of the proposal for a "Safeguard Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina" document -- a proposal from the Council of Ministers, you have received a report from the committee in charge, to hear a representative from the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1260	Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected guests, we at the last session as the Constitutional and Legal Commission informed this House about the Constitutional and Legal Committee's meeting and can only repeat what we said at the time, that we were discussing this material, that then the authorised rapporteur on behalf of the Bureau's proposer was one of the advisers, that this was downloaded at last session of the House, because there was 75 discussions on who was proposing the material. Then in the transcript that we all have, we got in the materials that cleared it up. Thus, by discussing the document then hearing the proposal's opinion, the Constitutional and Legal Commission concluded that this material is still going into regular procedure towards this home because of its seriousness. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1261	Thank you very much, thank you, I would like to explain here, or to say that at its 17th session of August, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina supported the document "Safe Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina" submitted by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, the House of Representatives asks Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency and Council of Ministers to install reform solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina from security policy and delivery documents to the House of Representatives for adoption within 90 days. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda point and here you go. Mr. Limov, Mr. Limov please, please excuse me. I'm tired. It's a lapus.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1262	Dear Presidency, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the document "Safe policy" which is certainly without doubt and important and extremely important from the aspect of Bosnia and Herzegovina's overall security. Namely, this document is extremely important and important, to all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina who, by the nature of their work or given the actual competence they are dealing with, have one, one, let me thus say the established policy in this area which essentially defines them in the implementation of these tasks. It is, in fact, one substance that means regulating all aspects, all security or security aspects for Bosnia and Herzegovina, starting with the principles of security policy itself, then general security policy provisions, constituent security policy elements, methods of implementation and final considerations. True, this document "Safeguard Policy" is a document that identified the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, namely, a document where, from the moment of its proposal, it has really been a long time and by nature, this document itself is about living matter, which should be adapted in terms of internal political, economic, social opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, as well as overall opportunities and developments in its closer or wider environment. 76 When it comes to this document, here I am, also estimating your time to be brief, so I introduce you as to the principles of security policy itself, you see that there are several of them indivisibility, security in the modern world, which indicates that the level of security in the environment necessarily affects both the level of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina and vice versa. As for the next principle of comprehensiveity in protecting the values of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it shows the coordination of the activities of the existing ones and where appropriate new mechanisms for Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy need to be established. When it comes to the principle of peaceliness here, it is determined that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no claim against neighbours and other countries, nor does the other state see as hostile or as a potential threat to its territorial integrity and sovereignty. The principle of transparency, when it comes to security policy, is clear enough and open enough to change, which means that it is a single document that I have also said about the internal policies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its environments are flexible and should be adapted. General security policy definitions are its security environment that I was talking about, and some important elements that can affect such as international terrorism, organised crime, illegal trade, various products and technologies of human beings, etc. When it comes to assessing the risks and threats to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security, they are classified in several groups, namely political, defence-led military, economic risks, social and environmental threats. When it comes to this group of political risks, it refers to leadership means policy-making on the basis of ethnic, religious, cultural and other intolerances, then to the possibility of exhibiting subsistence activities, different internal and external groups, insufficient political dialogue, insufficient bilateral co-operation with other countries, the lack of support for partnership relations in part of the international community. When it comes to a group of defence-military purposes, it could be classified as a lack of democratic control, armed forces, not developing appropriate procedures for international security co-operation, illegal transfers, weapons, the creation or maintenance of risk accumulations of arms and terrorism. The group of economic risks is a very complicated, complex group relating to underdeveloped or technologically lagging economic structure, the slow privatisation process, the low level of domestic and foreign investment, the existence of a black market, etc. A group of social risks implies a high level of social instability in terms of and certain incomes, a large number of unemployed, slow professionalisation of the Public Administration Sector and as a group of risks or threats related to the environment is the existence of certain hazards when it comes to certain earthquakes, fires, 77 floods, also technical or technological disasters, potential dangers from nuclear waste disposal, solid waste, waste of military origin, etc. As for the constituent elements of security policy, it concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal policy, Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence policy and strategic objectives, challenges and guidelines for Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence policy. Economic and financial policy, human rights, reconciliation, return of displaced people, environmental protection, human beings and protection of the environment of the human environment, etc. Namely, these are the basic elements of this document's strategic policy document of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, with a huge change in Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy strategy as compared to the time this document was adopted. If you only want to do so when you were talking about the conclusion of the House of Representatives to adopt this document by supplementing the new elements within 90 days, here you can see that several very important and large things have happened recently, which will certainly in one different, important different way determine the security policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the adoption of this law, the adoption of the law on indirect integration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on reform or reorganisation of the reform of the armed forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the reform of the overall reorganisation of the Intelligence Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the adoption of a new Law on Information and Security Agency at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is certainly a new legal framework that will determine Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, it is certainly a new and important element that will institutionally determine this policy in a different way, Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, and therefore, real jurisdiction based on this legislation, in a new way, of a system that will predeterminate and one here if I can say so in a different way on taking operational measures and actions at the level of this security policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself. And I think it would be very important and important that no matter how you commit to this document, one obligation is made to the Council of Ministers that after these reforms have been carried out, which are both certain and most likely to occur in a recent time petition, it means that the Council of Ministers is obliged to establish a new document. I think it would be insufficient to supplement this document, I think it would be better and more effective to establish a new security policy document at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina precisely given the large reforms that are happening and will occur at the most recent time in this sector. This means in the overall security sector of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1263	Thank you, we've heard this one, one I'd say more extensive exposure. I'm opening the debate, this is Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1264	Dear fellow envoys, the esteemed Deputy Minister, I must say that with your opening presentation, you have given me considerable encouragement and that I probably will not be sufficiently critical, at least not to the extent that you were right, because the fact is that if you shut up this document, you might think it's a good one. We of course know it's not and I'll try, you've been talking about some of the elements that exist here. I'm going to try to say which elements are not there, and we should be, and I'm going to try to do it in this content sense, first of all with the ambition to use it when you do it, and as you said yourself, the administrative new document, because it's a better variant than it is being fixed because it's known that something over two years has passed since that working group was formed, and then a later expert group, which worked on that document and somewhere at the end of last year, they ended it, and it seemed strange to me that these new elements were not incorporated into the document itself, since this document is of national importance, which, by far, reflects the total reforms that are inesce and in which we've already already started. So, respecting the patience of colleagues, but also for the fact that the deputy minister is here and that the problem certainly does not deserve to be found in the 24th place of today's agenda, but what is there. I will try what they say taxively and the minister will understand for sure what the intention is and where these are the problems that should be complemented, refreshed or innovated by the document itself. It is currently referring to that starting concept, it is evident that the following important segments, priorities and objectives of security policy, social and health policy, intelligence policy and organisation and the functioning of the security system are missing. So this is what was left in relation to the established initial concept by both the expert and the working group, and we know that overall activity has coordinated the former, so the former European Integration Ministry. I will, as I said, taxively respecting that you really are, but I feel that since I haven't spent this much so far in the situation that I can really say how much interest there is in this issue, but it seems to me that even for a stenogram, it should still go through the content of what I am, which I think is inevitable that the security policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a document that we need, on the one hand and on the other hand, which is one of the conditions for you to enter the Peace Party is whether. First of all, the document does not specify the priorities and objectives of security policy, in particular with regard to the construction of an effective security system capable of defending integrity, sovereignty, territorial integrity and international legal subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With regard to the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, domestic and foreign citizens in accordance with the highest democratic standards on organisational forms, and the way the security system works, with regard to the appropriate national representation of employees and security structure leaders, as regards professionalism and depoliticalism as the most relevant prerequisite for political neutrality of security operators, with regard to the operational professional performance of security operators, etc. 79 Secondly, as I pointed out at the outset, the social and health policy chapter was skipped, without which there is not only a serious approach to making such a document, but also a normal functioning of any system at all. Third, there's no chapter entitled Intelligence Policy. These days we've already received a draft law on the Intelligence and Security Agency, it seems to me that's the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This other thing, we are witnessing an affair that is the consequence of the criminal work of just intelligence and the use of their data by certain politicians. Fourthly, in the chapter of the Internal Policy, the existing situation has been found to be inconclusive, but it does not talk about the need for reform of the police system, although we well know that this is inevitable and that this reform has practically begun long ago, and it is going more slowly than we would like to, as best witnesses still, let me be a little more critical, a paper agency for information and protection, as the first police structure at Bosnia and Herzegovina level. Otherwise, the basic security subsystems, therefore defenceed security intelligence and counterintelligence as entities that are key holders of the implemented security policy of BiH, have not, by my deep conviction, found their place in the document, in particular, in relation to organisational forms, in terms of assessing functional capacity, in terms of assessing material and technical equipment, in terms of an effective chain of command which must be subsidized, and we know that it is not now. With regard to the uniform and effective action in the overall area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So, the shortest way to say it is to forget the chapter of the organization and the functioning of the security system. Fifthly, there have been no past, and the deputy minister has also warned of this, the start of activities to prepare and implement reforms in defence intelligence, customs, tax in the judiciary sector, education, etc. which makes the document not actual and anacronic. The šesti, it is not clear that the transfer of defence and security jobs to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is our need and interest, and ultimately our obligations if we want to join NATO and the European Union. The seventh, no thorough establishment of the financing of the defence of security and the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. There is a soul on page fourteen given in the responsibility of the Bureau of Obligations to prepare, but the Presidency objectively does not have this capacity and we know it well. The Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the capacity and should provide adequate regularity through the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget to finance all entities in the defence and security segment. Eight, there is no mention of a security strategy as an inescapable element of security policy, in which it is necessary to answer the question of what, when and how will make the provisions of this document not a dead letter on paper. In order to effectively operationalise security policy, it is mandatory to establish a security 80 strategy that defines the choice of methods and means to achieve the objectives of the security policy, which is currently relying on the knowledge and power of its operationalisation. Ninth, no mention at all of the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, then the Ministry of Defence, and the first two already have if Bog that we will have this third one soon, therefore, the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, we certainly won't need to twist our hand anymore to agree to that. In any case, no one should explain how necessary it is for these elements to enter and be a component of such a document. Then, in the assessment of security risks and threats to Bosnia and Herzegovina, my court does not stress enough. There is therefore, but there is not enough emphasis on organised crime which in our terms has a transnational character and a wide variety of complex and more or less hidden corrupt forms, for example, illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, illicit drug trafficking, terrorism, tax evasion, customs fraud, environmental nuclear crime as well as Deputy Minister of Information Crime, Money Laundering, etc. jedanaesti, the document does not guarantee that the presidency will be the real commander of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces, which are not even mentioned in the situation when existing constitutional legal decisions are top commanders, Bosniak member of the Federation's military presidency, the Federation's president for the second part of the Federation's army and Republika Srpska's president for Republika Srpska's Army. It must be clear to all of us next, if we can get through the needle ears, so with two or three armies enter the Partnership for Peace, Bosnia and Herzegovina only with one army can become two or three years from now, a NATO member. In the very document, which is subject to discussion, this parliamentary assembly, and where good luck is that it is only there, has a second-rate role and is not justified, is, and we ourselves are partly responsible for that, neglected by its, irreplaceable legitimate, financial and control role. Furthermore, the very hazy role of the Permanent Commission on Military Affairs in the section of "Defense Policy", which, objectively with no gymnastics can replace the absence of the BiH defence ministry. If this part was in the document and could stand from five days ago, it's a declassified thing and it needs to be quickly innovated in the document itself. The role of education, education and permanent professional training and training of security system staff is not then highlighted, and, in general, education in the broadest sense. Then, there is no role of the NGO sector, there is no one without which there will be no success in any reform, and that is the role of the media, or the public at all. That is why I think it is necessary to complete this document with that element. Dear fellow envoys, I, as you can testify, have taxed only some of the shortcomings in the document in question, although it is clear that these shortcomings still exist and, at all, I had no ambition to indicate all the elements, nor the ability in any such presentation, to say all that is relevant, and what is not and what should be more in the document itself. 81 Of course, we all have a lot of work to do. Our Europeanisation will be a thorny and difficult job, for which, quite insufficiently, a declarative commitment. Our security policy will be operationalized and brought to life through the work of the relevant bodies of the institutions. That is why we must urgently ensure the effectiveness of the existing institutions and, without great wisdom, create new institutions, which characterise every normal state. It has already been reported today that BiH has already received a number of institutions, which were not from the State Border Service and the Information and Protection Agency Interpol, the Permanent Commission for Military Affairs and its Secretariat, the BiH Court of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, etc. I am convinced that we, as the deputy minister himself, will have the BiH defence ministry at BiH level, will have the BiH military headquarters, the BiH intelligence and security agency. I'm sure that when we have a council of security, what others have, a council of national security or advice, it doesn't matter what it's called, but we know what it is, what the role of that body is, exactly in the element of assessing and making such documents, is that, therefore, an advisory body, composed of professional people, which can provide expert access to this issue. The debate on the document I see security policy as an opportunity, that we emissaries, but also all other relevant entities, see what we need to do in the next period to implement the document that we are talking about and about which we are having a full effect. And I'm going to end up, in a way that, too, taxingly, I'm going to try to count what I think we should do. We, therefore, are in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And the rest is: 1. To pass laws, which are always, consistent, efficient and in line with European standards, an effective security system. Such are, for example, the law on defence, the law on the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, the law on armed forces, the law on the protection of classified data, without which there is no, we cannot be a member of EUROPOL, let's say, without law, without this law, that I'm not saying that we can't join a partnership for peace, because, of course, we're going to be in a completely new situation, I didn't mention now, let's say the law on internal affairs, and that's going to be, and that's going to come on the agenda. 2. We must sign in this Parliament, agree on the ratification of relevant international conventions, which concern, especially the area of defence and security, which BiH has not yet signed and ratified, here I have now mentioned EUROPOL, so one of these conventions is also the Europol Convention. 3. In the 2004 budget, we must provide funding for defence, security, intelligence and counterintelligence institutions, at BiH level, which will soon be implemented on the basis of the law as far as next year. 4. We must successfully end our activities in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House, in line with the same act of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH, on which permanent working bodies of the Parlmentary Assembly of BiH will be established as soon as possible to exercise democratic control of all police, defence and intelligence structures, which exist or will exist at BiH level, in accordance with the solutions set out in the specific laws on these institutions. 82 I would just like to say in the end, that these are just some of the elements, that my endeavor went in the direction that part, at least part of these, of this content is embedded in this new document that we're going to have and I'm joining the conclusion, which the chairman read at the beginning. I think he's a good guy, and I suggest that we bring the timing into line with those 90 days, which, in practice, would mean that our conclusion applies to 60 days, because in the meantime, it's been 30 days. I hope so, and the relevant subjects have already begun working on the repairs of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1265	Thank you, too. We've heard one of the more extensive presentations, I wouldn't say it's a discussion, it's a nice lecture, about this area and these areas, and is there any other colleagues to report for the word? Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1266	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to cut short. The issue of adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy should also be seen in the context of defence and intelligence reform in BiH, conducted by committees formed by the High Representative, in co-operation with BiH and entity authorities. The defence reform, as well as intelligence activities, namely the overall security sector in BiH, is mainly aimed at the first state dimensioning of these activities, i.e. the primary objective of these reforms, meeting the conditions for joining BiH NATO, the Partnership for Peace and other Euro-Atlantic integrations programme. One of the formal conditions for BiH's accession to the Patence for Peace is the adoption of the BiH Security Policy document. The defence reform concept, agreed so far by the Reform Commission, as well as the basic defence reform document in BiH, with a plan to implement reforms in the RS defence system, adopted by the NS Republika Srpska at the 6th session of June 2003, is a major step in strengthening BiH's role in defence and security, i.e. strengthening the authority of the BiH state authorities in these areas. Starting with a solution contained in the BiH Defence Reform document, adopted by the National Buying of RS, as well as previously agreed views, within the framework of the reform concept by the Reform Commission, it can be concluded that certain parts of the proposal for the document are a safe policy of BiH, due to the time distance in the creation of 2000-2002 and the adoption of this document in 2003, to a considerable extent, are subject to urgent innovation and modernisation. For this reason, the Club of delegates of the Serb people in this home proposes the next conclusion. To accept the BiH Security Policy document, in a text proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers and to reach a conclusion obliging the Council of Ministers to in 2004. We believe, my colleague Limov will forgive me that even a small period of three months, given certain reforms, this proposal of the House of Representatives for 90 days, rather than being in 2004, that this document is completed, 83 is in line with normative and other documents, which will be the result of the controversial reforms in the area of security and defence in BiH and which gives consent to the BiH presidency to oversee the implementation of the security policy in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1267	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. Here, Mr. Genjac answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1268	Dear colleagues, speaking of two aspects of this issue, which is on the agenda, I would say in one sentence about the content of the text, about the content of this document. Namely, the reality and opportunities in BiH deserve a better document. I mean, of course, that this document has lasted a long time, as it all went on, that the effort, which, of course, I appreciate, is being made and, in general, I appreciate the approach that this document is being delivered and that it exists. However, in many parts this document is already history and therefore intending to speak in certain parts, because I understand the circumstances in which we work, I think we will agree that it is a document that in many parts.... That's why a better document should come before us. The presidency needs us to deliver a better document. I don't know how it will come to this, whether a completely new approach or new paper will work or will use basically this, this is a smaller question, but a document dealing with the security policy issue of BiH must take into account all the significant changes that have taken place in BiH, must take into account the fact that there will be a report available by the Security Sector Reform Commission and must take into account all the facts, which will reflect the structure of the overall and political and state BiH in this sector. That's why I think we need to support both the approach and this document, the document, but, I also think, that this 90-day deadline is more appropriate than some possibility, given our obligations and why we have defined ourselves and why we will achieve a political consensus on the deadlines, which are in the context of BiH's accession to the Partnership for Peace, I think it matches. That's one question. The second question, I think it's important to point out here. We've had some problems here in communication and certain inaccuracies. I understand, in the BiH Constitution, this sector is in the presidency's jurisdiction. The presidency, of course, as it has done, can form a group's work, task the ministry, the Council of Ministers, the Standing Military Committee of So far, certain experts to do one document. But ultimately, the document, as I understand it, adopts the presidency and it is not good for us to have BiH's security policy in the parliamentary procedure with the presidency's conclusion, to support and basically accept the proposal for a security policy. I think we need the security policy of BiH, which the BiH presidency adopted and delivered to the parliamentary procedure. Furthermore, Parliament does what it does. I point out this because it is not a minor issue, it is not a minor question, and of course the role of the Presidency in this matter I respect its constitutional position, as well as, of course, the position of the Parliamentary Assembly, in a document with this title must be adequately positioned, especially when it comes to parliamentary control of the security sector, because 84 without it in an indivisible security space of BiH, i.e. Europe and the whole world, there is no defence and security identity of BiH to the outside, unless there is very clear and precise in its security policy a certain position of parliamentary control. So, I appeal and give a certain request to the Presidency to deliver a document to us, which will state that the Presidency adopted the document and did not support it basically and neither do I.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1269	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here, we heard this discussion too. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. Oh, there is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1270	I'd only like before this conclusion. I agree with the text of the conclusion, I just want to consider this deadline a little bit. I don't think a 90-day deadline from today is real. If we want to have a document, which includes all this which will bring these 2 – 3 or 4 important reform laws, and so I think it would be a good idea for that deadline to be a little bit stretchy and I'm on the lookout for Mr Šiljegović's thinking that, therefore, after the adoption of these reform laws, I think it's realistic in the first months of the following year, so, first or second month of next year. So it's no less than 90 days, and I'm pleading it's a four-month term. Four months is maybe a lot more real. Because it would not be good if we were doing the document again, which would not have taken those decisions from those laws, and yet it would not have been good for us to make any changes and supplement this important document, and I also agree that I am a proposal for the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, because that is a question, there is one decision where the Presidency has given jurisdiction, tasked the Council of Ministers to make such a document. To make that document and make it, indeed, both the product and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers in cooperation, but let me say again, we should not tie it too short, because I am convinced that this will lead to a worse solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1271	Thank you very much. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1272	Of course, we'll survive without a document. Now we don't have it, so things are going. It's no problem how long to postpone these things, which the deputy minister said had to be innovated. The problem is that our reform is going to a new year, in terms of legislation, we are bringing and we have made a commitment here to bring certain laws to that end, but we now have to count on it to require certain resources and we have to keep in mind through budget projections already, whether, knowing parallel with the work on the laws to see how difficult it is. I'm warning you that in that sense, and I think, here's a good thing if the Deputy Minister pleads on this. This is a living document, which, even when innovated, will require a constant new innovation. It's important to provide the subjects with funding. It's one of the essential elements, because I appreciate that now that this document is signed on defence reform, these razors and waste of time have been removed, there's no need to waste time. That's why I think, here's a deputy minister who says what his 85th opinion is, what time it can be innovated to get to this stage. We will not go forward, but will constantly supplement it to the extent that the new institutions are standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1273	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1274	Here, if I may say so, regarding only the time, which refers to, possibly the adoption of this new document. I, respecting your time, of course, did not talk about all and total reforms, the overall security system, which, apart from the reforms that are going on or that are now under way in the armed forces in the intelligence system, is also going into the overall police reform of all police structures in BiH. Furthermore, it is either created or needed to create a certain number of other institutions, where solutions are still sought, both institutionally and organisationally, to set themselves up in the BiH community of security, which would certainly, in a certain and important way, determine the overall security situation in BiH. Let's just say that in the performance study of BiH, which we almost defended before the European Commission, the huge problem was... preventing money laundering in BiH, because we couldn't prove to them and convince them that we had a good and quality legal framework, i.e. legislative normative activity in the area, that we also had quality institutionally, quality-set this issue, in terms of its resolution. It is also on the market and the issue of intelligence-financial, financial-intelligence units, which will deal with money laundering problems. I'm saying that there's a lot of one, one is a broader and larger reform, just like the total police, intelligence, complete intelligence structures, in the context of the overall problem, both military, so police, so on all segments dealing with organised crime issues, etc. If we really wanted to start working on this new security or security policy tomorrow, I think it would be real, hard to look at all of this and look at the total of these reforms, which are going now in one 60-day period. I think that, at least, as they end up, and here, it's very fast, I think that short deadlines and it's going very fast this reform of the entire security sector, that parallel with this and with the new security policy, and that's what we said, let's say it was somewhere in the first quarter of next year, as Mr. Limov says, "We'll survive, and, here, it wasn't." But really, to put an end to this reform, we, here, don't know if we're doing a strategy against organised crime at BiH level. BiH should join a number of international institutions, when it comes to the overall problem of organised crime, corruption, etc. means that this, as this reform ends, builds or builds on existing or new institutions, establishes a new security policy for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1275	Thank you very much. We've heard discussions. We heard. Here you go, Mr. Brk. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1276	If the solution is that I don't speak, I'll give up right now. I want to try to be constructive. As we are today, Mr. Chairman, I tell you, you are holding a session, Mr. Chairman, I will, indeed, want to be constructive, so since we have repeatedly respected the views of the House of Representatives today, I suggest we respect them now and now and that deadline be that deadline, which they said for 90 days, 90 days that we, since it is living matter, have heard it many times already, is alive. As long as she puts it off, she'll still be alive, but we wouldn't get information after 90 days about the state of BiH. I don't see any reason to talk about it any further, but to accept it to be so and so that I wouldn't be stalling right now, I came out to accept it to end this agenda point, with that addition that Mr. Genjac was saying. We know who the constitutional category is and who should be behind it, the Presidency, and we should do it right and we should get the information we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1277	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the line? Here, let's try to get one conclusion out of this whole thing. So, what was adopted by the Parliament's House of Representatives, it is quite acceptable for us, in particular to agree on these deadlines in this second point, where they say, the House of Representatives asks the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers to, within 90 days, in a test of the document, embellish reform solutions in BiH, from the field of security policy and the delivery of documents to the House of Representatives. Eh, please nice, it's possible that this deadline at this point is, indeed, short. Nothing will happen if we say 120 days. I don't think this presidency and this crew will even do it in that time frame, but here we are, moving it and not breaking the deadlines to give people the opportunity to really meet the deadlines and then seriously ask them why you didn't do it. Another thing I would suggest. I seriously think that today there have been several extraordinary discussions on this subject, I really think and I will suggest that this House decide to transcript the discussion, unauthorized deliver to the group that is doing these materials, that people simply read what MPs are thinking in this preliminary home, remind them of what they should do and that these MPs would be pleased with. That's not why I'm here, but now this is a little bit of my remark. I'm not because of some tight deadlines, please force the group to do it quickly within the time limit of unquality law and an unquality project. It would be good, therefore, if we had the tolerance, that this group, that we would allow a group of people, indeed, so little more time, yes, possibly, and read and get to know and study the matter they're building into the project. That, in my opinion, will be a better project. Here, if we could do it this way. So, to agree with the proposal, to those MPs, or delegates, who say this project should be completed in the first quarter of next year. I think it's a decent time, by asking the minister that 87 colleagues who work, let me say, past the manager, to say that this is the position of this Parliament and that we, indeed, expect a project done within that period. Here, that's first. Secondly, to deliver transcripts of the good of these discussions, I say that there have been very, very good discussions, all the discussions and that people get to know each other a little bit. Third, to accept this decision by the BiH House of Representatives, to support this project and to expect a quality solution. Who's up for these suggestions and these conclusions? Thank you. So unanimous. I thank my colleagues and we're going on. Here's one, hilmo. What are you, against? Thank you very much. Ad.25. BiH's strategy for implementing Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, the Peace Agreement and the Evo Action Plan, does the rapporteur have?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1278	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only say a few words on behalf of the committee, which is that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered a very serious document on the BH strategy for the implementation of the Annex VII of the RES, that we had on the Commission the present rapporteur on behalf of the proposer and that we concluded, among other things, that it was a very important, important, large-scale issue for BiH, of particular importance for those to whom this legal act applies, this is relevant and, since this document was carried by a December 2002 date and is carrying a date from December 2002, and that we are now, here at the door of the 10th month. The suggestion was that, during the home session's opening remarks, all the new facts, conditions, all the progress that has taken place in terms of these new facts, which had to be in this home's report strategy, so that the House could discuss these issues better and on the basis of the most recent data. It was also a suggestion that, if, if the applicant, the introduction of the House decided to make some conclusions about this House, taking into account the conclusions on this topic from last session of the House, which was proposed by the esteemed colleague of Limov, and in this regard we handed to the applicant, rapporteur of this material, the conclusions of Mr Lim, as it was the conclusion that this was to return to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has concluded that the clubs are being declared, and thus we, regarding these conclusions, have ended, because we have sent them, we have sent them to a relevant place, where they will come and be considered and, in that sense, something about them is said as well as about the Strategy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1279	On this occasion, I would like to say that the House of Representatives has also considered this strategy whether, quite clearly, it has adopted that a suggestion for the adoption of the Strategy etc. Are there 88 other colleagues to discuss this topic? There isn't. I am putting forward a proposal to adopt the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Who's in? So unanimous. No one's against it and no one's abstentions. Thank you very much. Ad.26. A report on the first evaluation of BiH in the GRECO programme You have received a report from the committee responsible. Does the Minister have a need, an ambassador, namely, a need to say a few sentences about this, to get us a little closer to this all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1280	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, and, if you weren't going into your ninth hour of today's session, I wouldn't be any shorter or longer. I think it's a report, which I assume you've read, like the House of Representatives did with, let's say, a good grade, it's characterized as correct, exhaustive and stimulating. It is about BiH's first evaluation in the Group of countries under the roof of the Council of Europe, which have decided to adopt the most modern standards and regulations in the fight against corruption. It's not just European countries, it's a member of GRECO and the United States, it's Canada, Mexico and the door of GRECO that's open to other countries. Bosnia and Herzegovina became a member of GRECO before becoming a full member of the Council of Europe. This increased her activity as a candidate then for membership in the Council of Europe, and then the activity of an active member of the Council of Europe. The evaluation itself is carried out in several stages under the GREKO Regulation. The first stage is a questionnaire sent to the institutions of the country, which is the subject of evaluation. The completed questionnaires are then translated into one report, which again sends a comment to the country in question, and then comes the international team GRECO, which throughout the institution has conversants and vertical institutions, such as those we have in BiH, is making one contact conversation, an exchange of views, about the first initial report. After that, the report is again sent to the country in question, which makes its comments. It is in the tradition of democratic procedure and atmosphere within GRECO. I had the privilege and this helped me prepare for the preparations of BiH representatives in GREC and the head of the delegation, to receive very valuable comments in the committees on human rights and constitutional justice issues. We went through this text and there was, as well, a good echo and reception in the final act of evaluation, which takes place in a few days in the ambience, in which the members of GRECO and its delegations, which are composed of experts in international law in the judiciary of lawyers etc. I can compare myself with the Venice Commission. So it's about serious society, which correctly evaluates the country in question. We've got a pretty good grade. I was taught not to mention other countries and not to compare BiH with other countries in the environment, let's say, more favourable than some countries that came from the former Yugoslavia. It is encouraging as it is assessed both in, and at a session of the 89 House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has decided, you probably know, that both of these committees, which I mentioned, are taking part in a report that BiH is obliged to send Sekretrijata the GREKO at the end of 2004, which is about those recommendations and implementation of the recommendations, which are in the document before you. Already some members of GRECA are passing another evaluation in the group. Bosnia and Herzegovina can expect the next evaluation, the next round of evaluation, first in 2005. Here, that'll be all. And I thank you for giving me the opportunity and the privilege of participating in the foreign ministry in the work of this session, the presence of this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1281	Thank you very much. We also have a committee of parliament that has been working and sitting, related to this matter, Mr. Čengić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1282	So what's important, and it's about this topic, is that the evaluation or assessment of BiH's situation, as regards corruption, was made in July 2002. Whoever was reading the material carefully could see that we were further away from what was in 2002 and, I believe, if these minutes made the same evaluation, in the real state of things, to get a much more favourable assessment. That's the first one. Secondly, the fight against corruption is a permanent commitment and, I hope you share your opinion and attitude with me that, our commitment to GRECU is, in fact, an external obligation, but we have a real obligation to control and fight corruption, regardless of the evaluation and the next step towards GRECO, so within BiH, and in that sense, I think we should take the next steps. Thirdly, we expect this new report for 2005, according to GREC, but I suppose it would be good for us to agree today to request a report already for the next year, which will be prepared and discussed before presenting ourselves to international institutions, so we have the opportunity to consider the real state of affairs and to make certain suggestions. The next thing is that we as Parliament have a duty to pass a law on public procurement, which are part of these overall activities to combat corruption. Next, I think it would be good to take this opportunity and ask the Council of Ministers to organise, as the document says here, that a website should be created that treats the issue of corruption. But right now, I want to say this. We have a situation where, very often, information appears in public, things, assessments that corruption was, there was corruption, it happened etc. When you look at the same case after a year, or a year and a half, if an investigation has been conducted, if even in the direction of the court, it is no longer near what was published the first minute. However, we very often talk that our media and very local media and media who, perhaps not very circulationally, are being followed out, that they are being read to translate, that there are embassies here that report all this and that embassy is sending that information, that Mr. Telecom's director, that Mr. Minister Cantonal, that the Prime Minister is federal, that the minister, this one, that the MP, and he, he took, stole, committed a co-operation, etc. This information goes suddenly, it agrees, not to 90 files, but to other information, which is being transmitted to give space, so, in some country, to some region, group, etc. and that is how the position and opinion on BiH is formed. You know, you can say that there are minefields in BiH and someone won't come to you in tourism, you can say that there are no very good roads and highways in BiH, so someone won't pass through BiH, but when you say that there is an extended, well-founded corruption in BiH related to the structures of the state, then don't worry about foreign capital at all as an investment we won't get. In that sense, I can't ask the press, me being the one against someone else, against some other political option, etc. to keep my mouth shut and not speak, for everyone has the right to speak. However, we have an obligation to ask the official institutions of BiH, to react and try, as far as possible, to explain the legal situation of things with their official channels. I repeat, the legal situation of things is that when someone says they committed corruption, they still didn't commit it until the court proved that they did. You know that a huge number of cases stopped or at the beginning, no investigation was launched, or there was an investigation, so the process didn't go, or the process went, so it wasn't finished, or simply the process went, but it didn't prove corruption at all, but something else, third, etc. Finally, when it comes to corruption at those high levels, such as ejaculation, tax evasion, customs, etc. And it's slowly shrinking and shrinking. I'm not saying it's all honey and milk, but it's getting smaller. In that part, it would be good if this website, which would be an official website, were made in a professional way and actively and up-to-date, weekly and monthly follow-up and provide objective information, which would in some ways be in line with non-founded information. In this way, the commission proposes that this report be adopted and further co-operation continued and, of course, we consider it to be one of the obligations, that, as Parliament, when this law is prepared, we also accept the law on public procurement. I personally think it would be good if we agreed here to ask the Council of Ministers to make such a website available as soon as possible and that it gives an objective state of affairs. I'm not even because, because we're in power, we're trying to cover up, reduce, or even deny the facts of corruption. It's also not useful, because it's very unproductive. Someone, just to be objective and current. That would be, as far as this agenda is concerned. And now, given that there are no more agenda points, which are related to the work of the commission, which I am chairing and that I would no longer answer for the word, I have one proposal. I suppose the chairman will be surprised by that proposal, but I will make it loud and clear. I propose that we agree either now or at the end of this evening's session, to send, therefore, that the College send a written warning to the Council of Ministers, to the Presidency and to all other legislators, that their representatives are required to attend these meetings of the Parlment, or the House, no matter how long they last and whether it is at 3 p.m. or 9 p.m. in the evening and that, a warning before the press conference. In front of the press conference, scheduled by the College of this House, with precise data, how many meetings so far have not been attended by representatives and whose institutions. If we're looking for responsibility, if we're asking for all of us to carry out our duties, it's our duty to control the work of the institutions that we're responsible for, and at least what those institutions have to do to be present and to propose 91 here. I must say, I would be very pleased to meet you live and on the road, and let alone in this room the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his fellow ministers. Respecting everyone else and their ability, but it would be good if such a miracle happened. So, since it's not happening either, since it's never been a mistake for members of the Bureau to enter this room once since we've been here, and that wouldn't have been a bad event either, so I think it's high time we were critical. Today in Sarajevo, we had protests of pensioners or pensioners. We have a constant objection to having this, or that kind of income, or I don't know anything. We said we wanted to work professionally and work professionally, at least I think so, but we have to look for co-operation. Otherwise, if there's no co-operation, then there's responsibility. I think this is really final. I also believe that today I have a moral right to say this, because I insisted that we discuss some points of the agenda and if there were no proposings, and my esteemed colleagues had a principled attitude, but right now it is, indeed, high time to agree or we will work or whoever does not work, don't sit in a place where he is sitting right now. Leave it to whoever wants to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1283	Thank you too, Hasan. Here, first let's talk about evaluation and if there is, and then we'll talk about this second one. Is there anyone who's answering for the discussion? There isn't. We heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1284	I think it's important, the distinguished MPs have information that the SPAI Anti-Corruption Initiative Stability Pact for the whole region will open next month in Sarajevo. It's a thing we can congratulate ourselves because it's a political message. Secondly, as far as the document ahead of you is concerned, it has a lot of what's at the bottom of those fus notes, that's all that's happening in a dynamic state and in a dynamic parliament like this, happened, between the visit of the international team and the final procedure. Which means that it is adhesive, that it has been updated to the extent possible and what happened between those two times, so in part of the recommendations, they are adapted to everything that happened in the meantime and what is significant in the fight against corruption, which starts in Parliament, with the adoption of laws and legislation, without which there is nothing and never ends, because this is not a region that suffers endemic corruption. You also have corruption in the European Union, which is also concerned. One European Union government has fallen with santer, now there is a major threat to the Come-led commission, which means that we want to recognize the efforts made in the countries of the region, first in BiH, which is the centre of the world for us and then in other countries. Here, so much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1285	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I think that everything we've heard, as a report from Mr. Ambassador, and what we've heard as a report from the president of the commission, is encouraging, and I think this House can declare its support for this project and I ask 92 and, of course, to make a commendable statement about this and, I ask the MPs to vote on who is in favour of this project. Who's in? Unanimity. No one's against it, no one's abstentions. Mr. Ambassador, thank you. And, secondly, let's continue what Hasan suggested immediately. I think fellow MPs agree that the College, that is, the secretary, is to remove a stenogram from this House's discussion and that, given all this discussion, to the institutions of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and all others, whose work is related to this Parliament, sends a letter warning them of the obligation to attend the meetings of this Parliament, at least in a situation where their points are on the agenda and on committees. So, yes, that we will think of it, that this letter will be considered one last warning before the sanctions are taken. We have to sanction it somehow, we'll see how we do it. Dear MPs, do we agree with this? Here, we all agree and we're all in? We're all in. So be Hilmo, then, one is restrained. Okay, we'll do it later. We've got time to start the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1286	/didn't go out for a pay phone and you can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1287	Hilmo, we'll order them. We didn't choose them, and we have the right to live. Ad.27. A report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Palamentary Assembly of BiH You have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The president has a need to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1288	Honorable, tired ladies and tired gentlemen, here, just three or four sentences, so you've got one taxing, complex, practically one constitutional-legal report, which has been almost over a month, because we've had it over, I think I'm telling the truth, at the time when the act of the College came to deliver it. And we held a total of nine sessions during that reporting period, which is here in this report, we discussed 32 different issues. Let me not list you now compliance with the Constitution with 7, different laws 10, decisions on certification 15, etc. As we did, I wouldn't say, let the colleagues from this home, sitting on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and I would ultimately suggest that this home, however, accept this report. Thank you very much. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-30-0.u1289	Thank you very much. I have to ask my colleagues first, is there anyone who's answering for a discussion to discuss this topic? So there isn't. We can indeed make a commendable statement about this commission. I'm putting up reports on this one's work for adoption. Who is it to adopt the report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you very much. Ad.28. The conclusion regarding the CIPS project is that you've all got the conclusion and I'm going to read that conclusion to you now, the one who hasn't been able to read it. On the basis of Article 131. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina at its 12th session, held on 30 September 2003, reached the next conclusion. The BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs, is tasked with delivering within 30 days of the conclusion date, to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, full information on the implementation of the CIPS project, with a special reference to the tendering and election of the highest bidder. This conclusion comes after a series of warnings and a series of demands, which this House sent to the Council of Ministers, to provide us with information on this and he has not yet done so, here is one of the attempts to obtain this information and to keep the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH under way. Who's to this conclusion? Who's in? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you very much. I wish you good luck and, dear colleagues, I want no more of these things to happen in any congregation, as they did on this one. The sitting's done at 9:00.
