ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-01-0.u10585	... gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 25th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's 25th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, guests and representatives of international NGOs were invited, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this home. The members of the BiH presidency, chair and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I welcome all MPs and guests present at this session. According to the information I have from the Service, 35 MPs are present. Justice was announced by Zorić Vinko, Đedović Ibrahim and Mišić Nenad. The rest are expected to arrive at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Representatives Council during the meeting. So I find that there is a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, because of your known circumstances, we have called this session by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 47(3). The rules of procedure of this house. In the call for a session, you received a single-point draft agenda, which is the Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a defence law in the second reading. In the invitation, we noted that there was a possibility that two legislative proposals could be included in the agenda, which stem from the law on defence. Before this session, we held the Extended College and decided to include the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration. So, we propose on behalf of the Expansive College or the Expansive College proposes to the House of Representatives to adopt the agenda with three points, which I have listed. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Niko one's answering for a hearing. I'm concluding the debate and I'm realizing that we've accepted the agenda: 2 1. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Defence, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Second Reading, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Ministrys and other administration bodies in second reading. Moving ladies and gentlemen to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Defence You have received a Report from the Commission. As you have seen, no agreement has been reached on the Proposal for a Law on Defence in accordance with Article 65(4), we need to hold a vote in the second round. I remind you, as much as my memory serves to be accepted in the debate in the second reading of two amendments to Mr. Novaković and that no SNSD amendment on the abolition of regurution and professional service of the military deadline has been accepted. That was the reason why we didn't have consent in college. Today, we do not have the opportunity to conduct a debate on the Rules of Procedure, so we have the opportunity to just plead and go to a statement. Who's from the Federation against the defense law in the second reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-01-0.u10586	It's a complete home.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-01-0.u10587	Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, of the 35 present, 29 voted against the 6, no one was abstentioned. Let's go now and look for an entity statement. Who's against the Federation? There's no one here. Who's against the RS? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, against the Federation was not a single MP, from Republika Srpska 6 against. I agree that we adopted the BiH Defence Act in the second reading. I thank and move on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH – Second reading I am opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's go for a plea. 3 Who is it to accept the law on amendments to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH's second reading? Who's against it? Abstained? So out of the 36 votes, 30 against the vote 4 – abstention 2. So we have most of it. We're moving on to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? So, from the Federation for vote 24 from the RS voted 6. I agree that we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration in the second reading I am opening the debate. Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-01-0.u10588	Fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I had an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys, which, in fact, needs to correct, by my deep conviction of the error made by the Council of Ministers, handing over this member of the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction, thus losing sight of the fact that these powers have already been given to the BiH presidency in the Defence Act. Since we had recently adopted the Law of Defence and in order to adopt this amendment, we have practically come to a situation where we have two different texts on jurisdiction. So, the powers of the Ministry of Defence in two different laws, I will, and given that the House of Nations has adopted the proposed text, I will withdraw the amendment from the procedure, with the fact that I want to inform the House that I will go with amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, so as soon as your law becomes valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-01-0.u10589	I thank my colleague Novaković. I thank, therefore, after Mr. Novaković's amendments were withdrawn, there were no amendments to others. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're going to a plea. It's a good thing the SDS realized it was better to withdraw the amendments than to withdraw from the session. Let's go, then, to the plea. Who's to accept the bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 37 present, the vote was 31 against 5, contained 1. So we have a majority, we're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? 4 So, ladies and gentlemen, 24 of RS 6.. I konstatuj that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, the 25th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is over. Thank you for your expedition and attention. Cheers. The session was completed at 13:45.
