ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1618	Your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you as well as all guests and I am opening the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina There are currently 11 delegates present, but we will soon be joined by Mr Zoran Spasojević, so we have a legitimate absence of three delegates. So, from the Bosniak people we have 3 delegates present, we currently have four delegates from the Serb delegation, but Mr Spasojević will join us very quickly and we have four delegates from the Croatian people present. Mr. Chairman Mustafa Pamuk is justifiably absent. He's on a business trip. In addition, Mr Hilmo Neimarlija and Mr Ante Spajić still justified their absence. Since the 14th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was held recently and because of the volume of the content of the stenogram session, it was just done, and it is an integral part of the minutes. We did not include the minutes from the previous session in the agenda for today's session. For the 15th session, I propose the following updated agenda: 1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions This is the difference compared to the previous agenda that you got a few days earlier is 2. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act. We agreed at the College before this session to propose this item of the agenda, 3. The draft law on the indirect taxation system – second question, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 4. The conclusion of Tomislav Lim, the conditions in criminal and correctional figures in BiH, as set out in International Conventions 2 I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Does anyone want to speak on this agenda? Do we have a change and a supplement? I can tell that the agenda was adopted, because there were no changes and additions. If there are no amendments and amendments, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on in accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions We have not received an answer to any asked delegate question from the previous session until this session. Any new delegate questions? Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1619	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer the delegatski Question to the Council of Ministers, or the Resort Ministry. The delegation question reads: "The problem of the placement of agricultural products from the RS space in the city of Sarajevo". Agricultural and food products from RS are required for veterinary checks both at the place of manufacture and at the entrance to the city, which collects daily delivery for 70 marks per vehicle. As you know, the state-level law, according to which the veterinary service is united, has been passed. Who is in the interest of disrupting the single market in BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1620	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Mr. Limov answers his word to ask the next delegate question. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1621	Dear Mr. President, the chairman, the esteemed representatives of BiH institutions of professional services, representatives of public information funds, I would like to fast the envoy's question to the BiH Council of Ministers. The question is: "What stage are the negotiations on co-operation between BiH and Europol and what are they obliged to do to the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in order to meet the conditions for signing an agreement on co-operation with Europol?" On the basis of the decision of the Council on Legal and Internal Affairs of the European Union, in mid-October 2002, negotiations with five South-Eastern European auctions, including BiH, were launched with the aim of signing a co-operation agreement, both of which are interested in the countries and the European Union, i.e. Europol. 3 In order for the negotiations to be successfully completed, BiH must meet a full set of conditions. Over the past year, some issues have been settled, but more work remains to be done. I am interested in what has been done so far and what should be done by BiH institutions to open Europol's office as soon as possible in Sarajevo. In fact, Europol is a powerful police-legal institution of 15 European Union countries and while Interpol is a police institution in Europol we have represented along with a police and legal segment. In addition to Europol's police cooperation, other state institutions, such as customs, immigration and border services, financial police, courts and the like, are also being co-operated through Europol. Europol is responsible for its work to the Council of the European Union, which is made up of the ministers of justice and internal affairs of all 15, or all Member States, because we see that there will soon be more. I am convinced that here it is not possible to fight successfully against trans-national organised crime without quality cooperation with Europol. What kind of institution is this? A few of the following. Europol has an annual budget of over 50m euros. It has 3 billion, so 3 billion operational data, and currently in addition to five Southeast European countries, it is negotiating with 23 other countries in Europe, South and North America, Asia and Africa, to negotiate co-operation. Mr. President, I will provide you with a question of the form entered, and I ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the Council of Ministers responds so that we can make a concrete plan to see who needs to be done, so that this is brought in a quality way to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1622	I thank Mr. Limov. The next person to answer the word is Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1623	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I refer the matter to the Council of Ministers. That's what it says. "Why is the CIPS project delayed this long? Will there be an acceleration of the implementation of this project and when can we expect the completion of the CIPS project?" In fact, it was known that a year and a half ago, or something more, the realisation of this important project of the CIPS began. We have already been familiar with a few questions about the problem in the realisation of the project here in this conference. It is also known that we have been approved by neighbouring countries since 1.1.2004, by entry, by crossing borders, by entering our own countries with only an ID card. But you know what? Only these new ones issued by the CIPS project. I am really asking the question of 4 responsibilities for this slow implementation of this important project and it is logical that people cannot who are not in that unique register and who have not received a ID card under the CIPS project cannot cross the border between us neighbouring countries, without showing their passport. So, I can't just take an old ID card. I think we need to answer this question here. Why is he so late? When will this finally be realized and who is responsible for this long delay and slow implementation of this important project? Let us not forget that the implementation of this project is also one of BiH's conditions for approaching Western-European Union standards. This question has already been raised for this speaker, however, the answer either was not there or was too general and insufficient to explain all the reasons and aspects of the implementation of this project and this much delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1624	I thank my colleague Jukić. Do any of the delegates present want to ask a delegation question? I'm sorry, dear colleague Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1625	I welcome you all. I would like to ask one question about the discovery of the monument to former Croatian President Dr Franj Tuđman in Široki Brijeg, I want to ask Mr Dragan Čović, the chairman of the BiH presidency and Mr Čolak Bariša, the minister of the BiH Council of Ministers, a question. What is meant by the presence of these high-ranking BiH officials during this ceremony, the president of a country of another country, without a decision from the BiH state institution and I as a man could even accept it, but I am asking the question because of the messages that were heard from the rally, and I have not heard the comment, and I am asking for the answer, and the messages have been very worrying for me, that the follow-up of the gentleman, the policy of Mr. Franjo Tuđman, and we know that I am now not alasing here, what all the policies have been like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1626	I'd like to thank my colleague, Brk. Anyone else want to ask a delegate question? Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1627	I welcome fellow Members of Parliament, guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers and all others, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to ask you a question. I'm sorry I'm late for justifiable reasons, about some adjustments. There were words that I wasn't there when there was an answer to parliamentary questions. I asked a question three months ago. I got an answer I wasn't happy with. I asked again, now it's been a month and a half again, I didn't get any answers. I ask or that, as my colleagues say, we ask questions or to abolish this point of the 5th agenda, so no more asking MPs questions and no more answering them, so we know at least where we're at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1628	I thank Mr. Spasojević. I would like to remind you of the conclusion that we had regarding this non-response or not the timely answer to our delegate questions. I am Informisan by our home secretary, Mr. Tomić, that a letter has been sent to the Council of Ministers with, has been repeated in this letter all these questions and has been asked to answer them urgently. So there's been a premise to move to the next item of the agenda. Ad.2. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act, we have all received a report from the Joint Commission. Does the Commission want to speak on behalf of the Commission? Here, Mr. Čengić answers his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1629	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, representatives of the media, as you know, the Air Force Act has been adopted at both homes of the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the House of Representatives, he was adopted with two amendments, and at our home he was adopted with these two amendments, which were adopted at the House of Representatives and four new ones. Then a joint committee was formed, which held a meeting on 13 October. All members of the Commission were present and after an exhaustive debate, in particular in the amendment to Article 53. The Commission unanimously took the view that it supports all four amendments and has declared to accept all four amendments. In this way, attitudes were agreed and previously adopted by the House of Peoples by two amendments from Dr Radovanović, which, since they were adopted in the same text in both homes, were not, therefore, under the obligation of agreement, and four amendments that I submitted to the members of 45, 51, 53 and 80 were adopted by this joint commission. I would also like to inform the House that before we held this session, a letter from the OHR was sent, which concerned only members of 53rd and this provision concerning concessions. However, after the debate we had on the Commission, it was concluded that there was no procedural space to declare the Commission, given that the proposal that came from OHR was essentially not a technical repair, but rather a different solution, which would mean a new amendment, and the procedure no longer allows it and, however, it was concluded that there was a possibility that this issue could be resolved through the BiH concession law, through the existing Chicago Convention, which is valid in the aviation or aviation sector, and we eventually decided to send a letter to the OHR in which we would inform them about it and put ourselves at the disposal of further talks, if it was deemed necessary for some further 6 amendments. We believe that it is also possible to do it in an emergency phase, so, after the law is passed, possibly through amendments and additions to the law. To conclude, given that this law is extremely important, since this is one of BiH's obligations to the Council of Europe and, since our parliamentary obligation to make a statement about this, our commission unanimously accepted all amendments and agreed on the text of the law and we propose to this House to accept this statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1630	I thank Mr. Čengić. At the same time, I have one question for him. Since the report on the alignment of the text of the Air Force Act says at the bottom of the text that the Joint Commission proposes to the homes to adopt a conclusion approving the normative technical regulation of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1631	Yeah, that's a good question. We've spent a lot of time on this, and here's the thing. Since we have agreed on the views of all amendments, therefore, in the entirety of the text of the amendments, there has been a difference in the text of Article 55, because that article in the Law is related to Article 53, because there, in the title of that article, but also in its beginning mentioning these concessions, which are actually excluded by the amendment, and then we felt that it is necessary to comply now, which now after the amendments is purely technical in nature, at least according to us, but we have asked as a commission to consult the secretaries of both homes once again, and they have confirmed that they are also thinking that it is possible to implement these amendments, therefore simply leave out the word "concession" and to leave out the memory of Article 53 in Article 55, in fact, what has already been left behind from the very text of the law in its essence and technical sense. The fact that certain repairs are needed, but for now he is after the adoption of this amendment, here and in the opinion of the secretary of both homes are, in fact, technical. So it's just that we leave out something in the title that's no longer in the law. In the title of one part of the law, and it starts there as a member of 53rd, I hope this is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1632	I thank Mr. Čengić. I get it. So now we should practically vote on the Commission's report, and after that we will vote on the conclusion. So, we are pleading on a report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Air Force of BiH. Who's in? I find it unanimous, therefore, everyone present voted yes. The Commission’s report was adopted. With the adoption of the Report, the Air Force Act was practically adopted. 7 Now we vote on the conclusion. Who is it for homes to adopt a conclusion approving the normative technical arrangement of the Law? Who's in favour of that conclusion? Unanimity. I'm getting 12 for it. Thank you. Ad.3. Proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system – second reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers We have all received a report from the competent commission. The Commission has adopted three amendments, which have become an integral part of the text of the bill. The House of Representatives passed the law at the 23rd session held on 20 November 2003 with 16 amendments. Today’s second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. So, we've received united amendments and we'll declare each amendment individually. If it is necessary to agree on certain amendments, I suggest that we first make a statement on all amendments, and only then do the harmonisation in accordance with our rules of procedure. So let's now move on to these united amendments to the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH. The first amendment, submitted by delegate Velimir Jukić, I don't think we need to read because everyone in writing has it. Here, this is Mr. Šiljegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1633	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, please members of this senior body, the Club of Serbian Delegates is asking for a break of ten minutes, for the reason that the amendment's proposings had talks with the representatives of the Commission on the Law on an indirect taxation system. In particular, Mr. Spasojević's amendment should have some new formulation. We don't want to do this individually. There are some suggestions from the legislator, and we're looking for a break of 10 minutes, and in that break, we agree with the other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1634	I'm giving a 10-minute break at the request of the president of the club, the Serbian club. ...session. [[PAUZA]] We've been expecting Mr. Lim from today to join us. At the very beginning, I would like to appeal to all club presidents for a future attempt to properly assess the timing of the time needed to agree, so that we can be correct with each other and with the representatives of the public information funds, and 8 of which I will especially insist when I am the chairman of this home. And that's the first June of next year. Then everything will be as democratic as I say. All right, we're moving on to the session. I call on Mr. Šiljegović to, since he asked for a break, elaborate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1635	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the delay, but after a session and a 10-minute break from the Club of Serbian Delegates, representatives of the Club of Bosniaks Mr. Genjac and the man who changed the president of the Club of Delegates from the Croatian people Mr. Jukić were invited to our club and that is why we were late. Amendment number I of delegates Zoran Spasojević has been reformed and I call on the motion because he is the only one authorised by the Rules of Procedure to propose a new amendment number I.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1636	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Spasojević has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1637	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs dear guests, since my original version of the amendment was to add a new position to Article VII, it means that the director has two other deputies in fact, I felt that it was logical for him to have three constituent peoples and I felt that all three of the constituent peoples took a proper position with each institution. However, the clarification given to me by Mr. Jensen from the CFAO and the others from OHR, they said that in fact this amendment would violate the spirit of this law, which is based on the fact that here the chairman, or director of the administration, is going to be the man who, indeed, will manage me to further express themselves, they have brought this down to further disseminating the administration and have convinced me that there are five other significant functions in this administration besides this director and that such distribution would be considered as assistant directors in a free translation, although it is not clear and decadently said, I have agreed to this compromise and I have agreed to my amendment and I have agreed to rephrase myself and he would now vote like this. In Article 7, a new member, a new position 4, reads: "In the appointment of the management staff, national representation will be taken into account. I think that this is a compromise that is favourable and that we can all vote for this amendment, although the Bošnjak representative was not to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1638	I thank Mr. Spasojević, 9 Since the break was requested precisely for this amendment, we immediately moved on to him and if we skipped Mr. Jukić's amendment, I apologize for that. So I suggest we make a statement about this modified amendment. I'm sorry, I'm opening a debate on the amendment to Mr. Spasojević's modified amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1639	So, I want to say that certainly this law that we are talking about today is extremely important, and I expect that today we will pass this law in its text as it can go on. I find it very important, and I think it's a big job that we've come to this point. On the other hand, I think the argument that Mr. Jansen and the others have been working on on this law, which is before... colleagues of Spasojević about handling this institution for indirect taxation in terms of one director and two deputies, is very clear and that there is no controversy about it. I thank Mr. Spasojević for understanding these arguments, on the other hand, I would like to say that his TV or a clear message about the management structure and otherwise the structure of the institution, which will take care of indirect taxation, in my opinion, must indeed be made to reflect the national structure in BiH, according to the rules and principles which, otherwise, apply in BiH. So, in that sense, I support Mr. Spasojević's approach. I believe it is well founded and that the only possible option is not only in this institution, but also in the Council of Ministers and in all other state institutions. Still, I'd like to say next. Given the fact that this law has already been passed at the House of Representatives, I think it would be good if we tried to find a solution not to adopt new amendments simply to reduce differences and to get to the final text as soon as possible and it might be good, given that there is already such a commitment, as Mr Spasojević has made here today in his modified amendment, that such obligations exist under the already existing laws and regulations, which apply to BiH institutions. It might be good for Mr. Spasojevic to consider, possibly, that this amendment of his should be a proposal for a conclusion, which we would adopt as a House, simply to get a text on which we will agree less. So let me get this straight. I fully accept the principle he speaks of in this amendment, and I fully support that principle. But I believe that it is already contained in other laws and other regulations for the conduct of state institutions and that, of course, it must be implemented as such, but it would be good to have as little amendment as possible to bring it into line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1640	I would like to thank Mr. Čengić, before I give someone else my word, possibly, I would like to say that in that possible conclusion we can only plead if Mr. Spasojević agrees. As far as I can tell, he stays, of course, on his amendment. If anyone else wants to talk about it, Mr. Genjac is answering for his word. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1641	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, of course, I will not take much time, I will try to say this as soon as possible, I hold, however, that this law, which is before us and the concept of indirect taxation, which offers this law is a significant change in the functioning of economic space in BiH, with an obvious tendency to indeed establish clear responsibility and clear efficiency. Of course, the opportunities in BiH must always be taken into account and always taken into account in the adoption of the law, but I hold that some formulations and certain provisions, which are regulated by other laws and which accurately prescribe how national representation must be taken into account, do not need to be guided, indeed, by any law, especially in the case of the law, such as the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, which has made it very clear that the structure of civil servants in the civil service frame reflects the national structure of the BiH population, according to the latest census. Of course, this refers to the entire composition of the Directorate. However, I believe that the role of that field inspector as well as any management staff in this ministry is equally important. For these reasons, I am more inclined to formulate, which is the subject of regulation in the second law very clearly that there is no need to repeat it in this law. I'm not even prone to making a decision about this issue, because I don't think the question that the law has resolved is particularly necessary to regulate the conclusions of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1642	I thank Mr. Genjac. We're obviously not going to vote on the conclusion, because the promoter didn't agree to that. I now give my word to the promoter, or Mr. Jugić. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1643	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that one of the very important laws for BiH and its approximation to the standards of the Western European Union of this law, this is one big orac forward in fulfilling the conditions for the adoption of VAT laws. As important and important as it is, I'm only going to say one thing, and I believe you all know him. Of the transition countries in Europe that also belong to BiH, only BiH and two other countries have not passed the VAT law. And here, we also know some of our forecasts optimistically say that we could pass the VAT law and introduce VAT only sometime in 2006. Some countries in our closer environment, at the management of VAT, have largely consolidated their budgets, settled down and regulated their fiscal system. As a result of the introduction of VAT, there was a significant increase in state revenues and no change in tax rates. This means that the efficiency of tax collection is increased significantly, and 11 again means that the area for corruption, tax evasion and crime is significantly reduced and that is why I believe this is a very, very important law. However, I also believe that certain corrections to this law in the form of amendments are welcome. I support the amendment of the modified Mr. Spasojević in the text in which he has just said it, because I believe it is necessary, however, to make it clear that, in such an important institution, the administration of indirect taxation in a law that is lexpecialis for this administration, the management structure must reflect the national composition or be nationalally balanced. That's very important. The State Service Act said that this balance of national balance must be reflected at the level of the overall organisation. However, it is also important to reflect it in the management system. I was informed immediately before this session by Mr. Jensen that it is planned for the internal organisation of this administration to have five sectors, which are headed by the managers or directors and with the director, it will be, therefore, six people who will be the most important management of this important administrative organisation, and I believe that such an amendment by Mr. Spasojević is necessary and that it defines in a sufficiently precise way what we want to achieve. Our Constitution also speaks about this issue of this matter on general provisions in Article 9, however, it only says that elected officials, and yet these executives cannot come to terms with elected officials or doubt whether they can, etc. So I think that this amendment is not an extra one at all, but that it is necessary and that it should be installed. I personally believe that even when agreeing, there will also be understanding from the committee of the other House of Parliament that this, such a modified and formulated amendment, will be adopted. I was just talking a little bit about Zoran's amendment. Now I'd take the opportunity to say one sentence and my amendment if you'd allow the president, so I wouldn't go out again for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1644	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1645	The amendment is very short and very clear. So, it is proposed that behind the words "Federation of BiH and RS, Brcko District add the word "canton of County". The explanation I'll say very briefly. Countys have very significant obligations under the Constitution and by the laws and they are obliged to fund the police, the judiciary, education, culture, sport, part of social policy, so very large have obligations and I think they need to be stated here that the distribution of income in the first vom, let's say order or rank relations and the county. This is also an additional reason for all municipalities and cities in our country to be in an equal position, therefore, only they are not listed by social-political units or, I don't know, what I would call organisational units in BiH. 12 Amendments later number II and number III are only a replica of this amendment to the text in the following articles, in fact, is now only about one amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1646	I thank Mr. Jukić. I ask all present delegates if anyone else would like to talk about Mr. Spasojević's amendment? Since there are no reports, we can practically declare Mr. Spasojević's amendment at this point. For democracy's sake, we'll respect Mr. Genjac's remarks. I'm asking the proposer's representative if he needs to say a few words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1647	Mr. S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1648	I think it's really unnecessary for these amendments. I will especially report to these amendments that Jukić is. As far as this corrected amendment of Mr Spasojević is concerned, there is no need, as other regulations stressing that the national structure has already been regulated that it must be represented. And since, as you've already informed five assistant directors with CEO six, there's going to be two plus two plus two.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1649	Thank you. Now we can approach the vote. Who's for Mr. Spasojević's modified amendment? I find that 8 is for Mr. Spasjević's modified amendment, not to read it now, and I don't have it modified here, but it was interpreted by the promoter himself. Who's against this amendment? They're up against two. Who's being held back? He's a uzdržati 1.. I konstatuj Mr. Spasojević's amendment to the amended amendment has been adopted. We are now returning to the first amendment of Mr Velimir Jukić, so because Mr Jukić has already spoken of his amendment in his address according to your amendment and I am opening the raps on the amendment of delegate Velimir Jukić, his first amendment. On behalf of the Proposer. Mr. Kumalić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1650	Well, I mean, first of all, if you do, you know, the organisational structure is more attractive. That it's a federal arrangement and that it's an auction made up of entities and Brcko District. In Article 2, the entities are referred to as ‘entity’. Therefore, no county can be brought to the same rank. This is the first moment this amendment should be rejected. Furthermore, as far as the entity's fiscal sovereignty is concerned, then the Federation of Public Revenue Law gives financial sovereignty to entities. So, it's, uh, the distribution of public income between entities, the county by federal entity law. Therefore, there is no need to violate this concept of law, to enter into the law of the county at all. That's way too high. I mean, I can explain this in a very detailed way, but I think it's completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1651	I would like to thank Mr. Kumalić's proposing representative. We've really had a lot of time and a lot of talk about this law and we've had time to differentiate in our heads, so Mr. Kumalić is right when he says he doesn't think there's too much need to elaborate on this. Is anyone answering for the amendment, Mr. Jukić's first amendment? We've heard from the motionor's representative, so we can put it to a vote. Who is for the amendment and delegate Velimir Jukić? I find seven delegates for this amendment. Who's against Mr. Jukić's amendment? We've got three against it. Who's being held back? - Two So, I realize that the amendment and Mr. Jukić was adopted. We move on to Amendment II of the delegate Velimir Jukić. I'm opening a debate under Amendment II. So basically Mr. Jukić has elaborated it himself. We heard the representative of Mr. Kumalić's proposal. Is there anything else anyone would like to say? We know it's tied up, that's what Mr. Jukić said. So, I can put you to a vote. Who's for Amendment II Mr. Jukić? We have a 7 for who's against it? Three uzdržati? Two whether since the spirit of the amendment is the same I suppose the vote for this third one will be the same, I realize that it has been adopted, so the second amendment of Mr. Jukić. 14 The following amendment, which is next, is the fourth amendment of the delegate Zoran Spasojević. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to speak from a delegate, either in front of a legislator or a legislator? Since no one's answering for a word, I'll put it to a vote. Who's for Mr. Zoran Spasojević's fourth amendment? On page five, first. On page five, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I figure it's five in. Who is against the amendment of Zoran Spasojević? Three are against it. Who's being held back? Four abstentions. There's no entity majority. Yes, there's a harmonisation of the Kolegijum, but since we agreed, it seems to me at the beginning of this agenda point if there are any more examples like this, we'll end up agreeing. So this goes to the alignment. We continue with the following amendment, the third amendment by delegate Velimir Jukić. I'm opening a debate under this amendment. I guess it won't be as I see it. No one's applying for the same spirit in all three of these amendments, Mr. Jukić, and I'm putting it to the vote. Who's for Mr. Jukić's third amendment? 7 For Who Is Against the Third Amendment of Mr. Jukić? 3 Hold on 2 is it? We have the same story as in the previous two amendments. I can conclude that the third amendment of delegate Velimir Jukić was adopted. We move on to Mr. Zoran Spasojević's fifth amendment. And I'm opening a debate. Here comes Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1652	No, I apologize for the next amendment, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1653	Okay, he's giving up. Is anyone else answering for word? Proposing a law, proposing an amendment, delegates, no one wants to talk. 15 So we can make a statement about Mr. Spasojević's amendment. Who's in? 5 for, who's against? 3 are against, who is abstention? 4, Again, since there is no entity majority, then, and this amendment will go to the College for approval. Now it's coming, the third amendment of delegate Zoran Spasojević. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Boško Šiljegović, please, after him, Mr. Spasojević will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1654	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian delegates' club, considers the following. The Commission for the adoption of this Law on Indirect Taxation, consisting of ministers, experts and representatives of the international community, submitted four of the following regional centres, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar and Brcko to the Council of Ministers in the form of the draft law. The Council of Ministers in the form of a bill sent a law to the House of Representatives with the next 4 regional centres; Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar and Tuzla. The situation has occurred to us that the House of Representatives adopted the law in the first and second readings with the following centres; Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla and Brcko. For these reasons, Mr. Spasojević and the Club of delegates of the Serb people propose another centre, which is the centre of Bjeljina. We are prepared to withdraw the amendment proposal in the variant to return it to the Commission's original proposal for the adoption of this law. So, the centers of Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar and Brcko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1655	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. As far as I know, I don't think it's possible to come to this kind of transformation right now. I'm calling Mr. Spasojević who answered the next word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1656	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I have submitted this amendment, believing that these centres listed here are Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar and Tuzla already have their own regional institutions that make them cities. Since Bjeljina is in the last period, one of the cities that is growing so fast that in maybe 5-6 years, there will be another city right after Sarajevo, I thought that if we can't get a single board of directors, that logically as 16 of the developed centres in BiH, that we would get one of the regional centres that we are in such a position as to cover 2-3 borders, with 2-3 neighbouring states, and that this centre, along with the decision of the Assembly that came to the meeting and which supported this amendment and said that it would create all the conditions for this regional centre to live, if not today, from tomorrow. And I believe this regional centre has its own justification in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1657	I thank the promoter of this amendment, Mr. Spasojević. I apologize, Mr. Spasojević, since the head of your club, Mr. Šiljegović, came up with one proposal, is only valid if you present it as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1658	I think what Mr. Šiljegović said is that this is not possible at this stage only at the commission stage when the commission of each other's home is formed and that it is only possible to do so in this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1659	Okay, thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Who's still answering for the word after this amendment? Mr. Kumalić in front of the bill promoter, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1660	Starting from the fact that the main objective of this law is a unique economic space, that it does not know the entity's boundaries and that it is on the principle of benefit bone, it is very important to take care of costs. Public spending reform is now under way and needs to be seen in advance. Even when the Commission was working and the 4 centres were not too high, but in order to meet all the criteria, it was primarily economically accepted to be the 4 centres, which was led by the Council of Ministers when it designated Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar and Tuzla as branches. Therefore, adding further to the centre would disrupt the basic concept and contribute significantly to the collection of the costs themselves, which is not necessary in any case. I repeat, these branches don't know the entity boundaries, and that's on it, the concept is based and the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1661	I thank Mr. Kumalić, but here I will return to what Mr. Šiljegović has suggested in the commission phase of the reconciliation, the amendment can either adopt or reject itself as a whole. There's no repairs. 17 Mr. Genjac is reporting for word, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1662	Dear colleagues, in this important law, this is one of the most important issues. I would not return much to the chronology and history of the creation of this law, except to point out when some initial version was already mentioned, that the primary version of this law was the single economic zone of BiH and one centre of the Directorate for indirect taxation. That was the primary version. Of course, in an effort to reach a compromise, compromise was made, different options were discussed, as far as we as MPs and delegates know. And as far as I can see, in an effort to establish these centers, it wasn't an entity border criterion, because this isn't a system that works within the entity. This is a system that operates in BiH space, and in the interest of both BiH and entities. So it wasn't those criteria. The criterion was primarily adequate geographical representation, the accessibility of business people to these centres, and I think the proposed solution, in the way it was delivered from the Council of Ministers, achieved this ambition in a way that 4 centres covered the geographical area of BiH fairly evenly and allowed the realization of that ambition to be equal to the availability of these centres in the BiH area. I don't think adding new centres and new district offices, is in favour of the functioning of this law, does not contribute to the achievement of those objectives that this law has for ambition. And in karate, I think it is not negligible and it is not important that EU aid of EUR 15 million is at stake by increasing these centres and these offices. So, directly and very clearly, we need to stress that by increasing the number of centres, it means eliminating the possibility of getting help to function this system, for clear reasons, by opening new offices and thus increasing costs. I don't think anyone's ready to get into that adventure, and that's why I don't think we should go home no matter how the other Dom pleads to get into the experiments. I think we should stay with what the Council of Ministers has offered and the Commission for Lawmaking, which is 4 centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1663	I thank Mr. Genjac. Does anyone else want to talk about Mr. Spasojević's third amendment? I'm closing the debate and putting it to the vote. Who's for Mr. Spasojević's third amendment? Who's against this amendment? It's against six of you. Who's against Mr. Spasojević's amendment? Six abstentions? 1 Yes, he is no longer against and this amendment has not been adopted. 18 We move on to the next amendment, the second amendment of delegate Zoran Spasojević. I'm opening a debate. It's already in previous debates, and I think there's been a conversation about this amendment as well. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm giving a statement. Who's for Mr. Spasojević's second amendment? 5 is for, who's against? 6 is against, who is abstention? I find that this amendment has not been adopted. The sixth amendment of the delegate Zoran Spasojević. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. Mr. Spasojević, the promoter of this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1664	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I felt that this amendment had its place in this law because it decidently says that after every year the work of this administration of the BiH Audit Office or entity will be carried out by an audit of the operations of this administration, because in the integrated course, or text proposed by the Council of Ministers, it says that in the next 5 years, one of the foreign meanings will be hired by one of the foreign houses, so that I believe that our review of BiH is sufficiently qualified, that it is neutral enough and that it should be as necessary for all institutions and for the institution of the Presidency and for the institution of Parliament, the Council of Ministers, of all ministries, that after each year, a revision of the business and this administration should be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1665	I would like to thank the amendment promoter, Mr. Spasojević. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Halid Genjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1666	Dear colleagues, I think that here at all, at the very least I need clarifications of some, at least to me. In the original text, a member of the 35th Law says – that within a period of 5 years following the entry into force of this law, the Committee will engage the services of an external professional body that will carry out an annual review of the work of the Management, as an examination, of the allocation of revenue by the Management. 19 This procedure is conducted with full co-operation from the public audit institutions of BiH, the Federation and RS. At the end of the five-year period, the Committee shall decide whether to proceed with the procedure referred to in the previous position. The expenditure related to external audits shall be settled from the budget of the Management Board. All professional reports issued by the professional body are made available to the public. So here it stresses that, over a period of 5 years, external professional bodies or experts with full co-operation of entity, or audit institutions of BiH and entity audit institutions will carry out that audit, that there are certain costs that will settle the management budget, and that what the audit house is now doing will be available to the public. The amendment proposes that for everyone, so this is all to stay and then to add in the new position that for every year since the entry into force of this law, an audit of the operations of Upava by BiH auditors' houses, the audit of the RS and the Federation of BiH will be carried out. So at least three misunderstandings here for me exist. If he says that a review by BiH and the institution's audit will be carried out for each year... here it is no longer the co-operation of the entity's and BiH auditors' houses, but the audit of the BiH and entity institutions is a question of whose older the audit is, because these are final, it is an audit of the entity and the revision of BiH. Who's going to do the audit. Where entities' audit houses and where BiH's audit houses are, or is it possible to ensure such a vague formulation that a formulation states that several houses will audit. That's one question. The second question, as can be seen, includes certain costs which are not negligible. An audit by the BiH audit institution, the entity's audit institution, which will cover the audit costs. Will the administration's budget cover all these audits and entity and audits of BiH as well. And finally, how do you realize that it works in the sense that this, this intention that has been achieved. I think that here and the amendment promoter, and the legislator should be made clear whether or not it is to provide answers that offer solutions to some of the dilemmas that I think are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1667	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Spasojević, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1668	I apologize for reporting again, but Mr. Genjac has asked me two specific questions as a proposing amendment and I want to answer them, and by the way to tell him that Mr. Genjac and all of you other delegates, this revision that will be organised on the side, it will cost a lot more. It, the one audit act, or one audit action, will be one audit that will be carried out during the year, which will be hired on the side, will cost as much as it costs for the whole year, as it sets out the budget for the BiH audit. As far as this is concerned, why the audits of both the RS and the Federation. Well, I felt that the audit doesn't always have to do and not have enough, there aren't enough auditors to do everything from BiH level. I thought that the center in the center that works, here's an example of working in Banja Luka, why not review it from the Federation or the centre from Mostar or Sarajevo. Why not have his audit carried out a revision from the RS to cross it a little bit, that is, on a regular basis, meaning that these are regular budget consumers and the revision of the Federation and the audits of the RS and the revision of BiH, not to impose any costs, but only to push costs, this will be hired on the side within 5 years and this will be the most expensive Mr Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1669	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Kumalić is in front of the Council of Ministers' bill promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1670	I don't think there should be any dilemmas, because it's going to be neutral or foreign audit, given the complexity of this problem and that it's the distribution of 70% of public spending. Secondly, this is illogical and it cannot be accepted that this entity audits are being audited by a state institution. But let me get this straight. The Accounting and Audit Act, which will regulate jurisdiction, is now under way, and this law is older for these audit issues, so we cannot do so in this law, and I think this proposal, as the biller has made, is quite satisfactory. And I would ask this amendment promoter to give up this amendment. There's really no point, because this law already provides that the audits will work closely together. I would not prejudge what solutions will be made when the Accounting and Audit Act is passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1671	I thank Mr. Kumalić. Mr. Jukić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1672	The formulation proposed in Article 35 is not quite good for me, as it excludes the possibility of the audit being carried out by the home auditory house. And it includes how full cooperation between BiH's public audit institutions is written here. I don't think this is a good formulation, I'm not quite sure that everything is the most complicated formula in Amendment 21 of Mr. Spasojević, but I support the basis of the ideas and the idea of this amendment, which is that the revision is in the first five years and otherwise also done by the domestic audit institutions. I think it's a good solution, and it doesn't rule out the possibility of an audit being conducted by a foreign auditory house. So, in this intervention, I think it would be good for Mr Spasojević's amendment to achieve the possibility for the audit to also be carried out by the domestic audit institution or institution. And as much as I support this Zoran amendment, with the possibility that it might take some small repairs in the amendment but to remain the meaning I said. I think it was the basic idea and Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1673	I thank my colleague Jukić. Mr. Ćengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1674	When it comes to the debate on this issue, I will say very clearly that the definition offered in Article 35 of the Law is confusing, unclear and that it is obviously a kind of political concession. I'm not going to be malice, but I'm going to ask if it's real, if we really came into a situation to trust the entity home one rather than the other, or possibly even one of the national audit institutions rather than another. I'll be very clear when it comes to reviewing, I want to trust only experts. And I don't think it matters if they come from this or that entity, from this or that people. Secondly, I believe that the issue of reviewing, controlling the work of this institution is extremely important, and that is why I fully agree with all my colleagues who have been motivated to seek one solution. For the reason I said, I believe that this second sentence in article 35 is carried out with full co-operation from the public audit institutions of BiH, the Federation and the RS, I find it unclear, that it is excess and that it actually complicates the whole process. And that's what I said about probably some kind of political compromise. Gentlemen, if we are going to have one institution at the level at which it is proposed by this law, if there are already so many institutions at BiH level, if there is a Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, if there is a Council of Ministers of BiH and if there is an audit house that audits these institutions, then I don't understand why we are so nervous about controlling the work of this house, not controlling the spending of money in the Council of Ministers of Parliament's Assembly I don't want a third. I've got an answer. Probably because it's thought that there's going to be a lot more money here, number one, so it's going to be more money than it's going to go through the state budget, and secondly, because it's the money that's supposed to go into this institution and come out again to be deployed around, so there's no injustice. It's all very important and it takes 22 to do it professionally. That it is done in accordance with the law and regulations, and that there are no violations. To conclude, I don't think the guarantee of a fair audit is what an entity audit would do, I don't think. As I don't think it's mandatory because BiH's auditory house would do it, it'll be fine. So I absolutely don't give an advantage to anyone, but I don't think this principle should be introduced. Secondly, I'm asking a very open question, why do we need to introduce this entity principle of control of state institutions only here and not elsewhere. And the third is, what that means, in the organisational sense of hierarchical terms, which means, who's being co-boarded. Whose report will be valid. Based on which report decisions will be made and moves taken. Does that mean now that we're simply working in a joint institution, we don't trust each other, so we're going to send now... I don't think we should have that kind of nervousness and that kind of approach because we didn't have it in any other institution. There's no need for this one either. And when it comes to this formulation in the first sentence of Article 35. – The Committee will hire or engage an external professional body to carry out an annual review of the work of the Management, as well as an examination of the collection and distribution of revenue by the Management. Please, if I interpret this sentence, then this - the services of the external professional body, for me does not mean a foreign, foreign body which is not from BiH. I don't read like that at all. For me, this -- the external body, means some body that is not the BiH Auditor's House, which audits BiH institutions or the entity institutions' institutions. So she's external in that sense, and normally for me she is and can be a home audit house. It could even be a consortium of audit houses. True, the truth of this is that everything that we are talking about will become immaterial with another argument, and this is what it says – if there are really indications, there is no professional, bad or illegal business. There's no dilemma that we'll be exposed. I repeat, there is no dilemma that we will be exposed to international financial institutions, which will ask us to carry out such and such an audit and most likely even propose to us an auditor, or criteria for an auditor who will be those very international standards and probably foreign reposors. In that sense, I believe that this controversy is good because of the fact that we need control, to take care of audits, to take care of business control. I absolutely agree with you on this, but I think we should approach this the next way. It should be requested that the audit of this institution shall be carried out by the State Audit Office and shall carry out one or a consortium of audit houses for which either this committee or possibly the Council of Ministers shall establish that it is necessary in a given case. Everything else, therefore, any further politicizing in my opinion is unnecessary, unfounded and there is no reason to politicise about this case unless we have politicised in the budget this one, and in relation to the BiH institutions' budget. 23 I hope we understand this and I will be very clear. If I were to formulate this article, I would formulate it differently, but now given the fact that we are in this degree of declaration of the law, I think we should support this solution, as provided for in this article. Leave the amendment to this now, and perhaps within some reasonable time, perhaps within the next year, to make amendments and amendments to the laws that this issue would explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1675	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Radović and Radovanović answered the word. Radović first.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1676	Gentlemen, the chairman, imported colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, is certain that the definition or formulation of Article 35 is unclear and it can be interpreted in various ways, and this is seen from our discussions that everyone in their own way understands it, so I need to say that I understood this Article 35. Here's the first thing I want to say is that it bothers me that in law we've shown no confidence in domestic audit houses and said for five years we'll be controlled by strangers. Is that what we don't trust, so we say, mistrust is already pre-entity, internationally, unprofessionally, we think it's going to be and we say five years. I give it up, I will not determine or determine how many years it is, but at the given needs and the real state, and we appreciate that we have given great authority to the Committee there and that the Committee should appreciate when and how it will call the relevant audit house. As I understand this with co-operation with the BiH audit houses, the Federation, RS, so as every year we have a report on the revision of all BiH institutions, i.e. the Federation and RS, this institution will also be subject to the annual audit of domestic audits and it is understood that a foreign institution will use these reports as well as the control of the audit of domestic institutions to see and find the state of the audit. And that's why my observation, meaning not to limit time and how much foreign use we're going to use, maybe 10 and 15 years, or maybe we're going to constantly, permanently look, will be economically justified and politically acceptable to us. And that's why it's not limited... what we're going to do in the sixth year, the sixth year we're going to ask the Committee if it won't, and that's why I'm just saying that maybe in reshaping the amendments, we're going to leave this 5 out and leave it to the Committee to consider, and this cooperation, so normally there's going to be an audit every year. We're not going to leave out the law that only this administration has no audit, because everyone else is subject to review and there's going to be an audit. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1677	I thank Mr. Radović. Mr. Radovanović. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1678	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the broad though we are already on the amendment, so there are few things we can change. We can only adopt the amendment or not adopt it, but since everyone's giving their opinion, let me put my opinion on it. Article 35 is fine in the subtitle – external review, meaning Article 35 refers only to external review, and my opinion is that it's not bad that this article was regulated, with me, a period of 5 years might have been shorter for 3 years, but now we can't change that. So after three years, it's decided whether or not to continue external control. And internal control will be regulated by internal audit control laws in BiH, which does not exclude regular annual, two-year control of internal audit houses. So the external review in my opinion is only questionable whether 5 years or after 3 years to decide, but we can't change that now. This amendment applies to internal control and I don't think it might stand in this Article 35. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1679	I thank Dr. Radovanović. Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1680	For me, there's a dilemma here, whether this outsider is what I said earlier in my speech, I'll do it again. So, for me or myself, it's not clear from this text of the law, whether the external review of these five years rules out audits, it doesn't say anywhere that it isn't, but I don't know whether or not it is, so whether it shuts down or includes a revision of domestic audit houses. If it does not exclude it, then the formulation can pass, but I am not sure that it involves, or is enough alone as it says here, not enough alone but only mentions here that it will hire the services of an external professional body to carry out an annual review of the work of the Administration etc. So, if this includes a normal revision of the home auditory house, then this can remain, if it is not included then it should be included in the way proposed by Mr Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1681	I thank Mr. Jukić. Mr. Kumalić. I'd like to ask for silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1682	Just an additional interpretation, Mr. Jensen said, I've been from an opportunity in the first five years, the external audit is involved for the sake of trust, given our situation. What Jukić was saying does not exclude the administration from hiring both domestic and regular audits. Otherwise, the review for your notice is done at least once a year. So in addition to 25 of these, the Board of Directors or the Council of Ministers will practically decide and there will be a domestic audit in each case. And this is just for the sake of trust in the first five years that an external audit may be used.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1683	Please, Mr. Spasojević, you'll have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1684	That's not what I mean, I mean, domestic audit.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1685	The first one answered the word Radovanović, the advantage is Spasojević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1686	Mr. Chairman and fellow MPs, I am not shutting down this side of the audit at all. So I admit that within five years they can engage a foreign audit if they think so, but I find it unclear whether it will be done every year in this law. I decidently said that after every year of the year, an audit of our audit houses will be carried out and I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1687	Mr. Radovanović, then Mr. Čngić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1688	Let me explain this for a second. In my view, there is no internal audit and this article regulates foreign audits. A foreign audit can hire one, an institution. You said that the institution, i.e. the Administration, would now be hiring a domestic audit. They won't hire her, she'll engage herself. By law, it is required to audit institutions as it audits ministries. They'll have to audit and tax administrations. By law, they'll be mandatory. So I don't see any big reason why this law is bound to re-audit her, it doesn't rule out, but that's where she's going to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1689	Well, that's the problem if he can't, so that's the problem. I'm advocating she can do her homework and she needs a side.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1690	Here's the promoter always has the advantage. Here's Mr. Kumalić, I apologize, sir. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1691	I mean, now we've removed all the dilemmas. And domestic audits will run on a regular basis, and that's understood, and there's really no need to change here anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1692	Mr. Čengić
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1693	It would be very good to agree, it would be very good to agree on what language this law is written in. I'm sorry, very clear. So, I really don't know which language this version is that I have, but let me read just one more piece of article 35 that says – the Committee will hire the services of an external professional body to conduct an annual work review. The outside professional body. If it's in English boarding and external, then things are very clear. We know that there is a obligation in banks, therefore, that each bank has an employee auditor who receives a salary in the bank and does its job every day, so audits and that the bank also has an obligation to once a year obtain a report of an auditory house which is therefore not employed in the bank, but outside the bank. If you ask me about interpretation and Parliament is always one of the most important legislators of the law, tomorrow I will interpret this law as referring to an audit house that is not state-owned, but is not outside BiH but is an audit house from BiH. So in this text of the law, I'm sorry, gentlemen, in this text of the law, I don't see any argument in the variant that I am strengthening, the version that I read that this is an audit house outside of BiH. So in this text I read, it doesn't say. If it's meant to be, then it should be written. Please, I don't speak any other language than the one I speak, if I think it should be written. What it says here doesn't mean that. So he's looking for a big debate and a discussion and an explanation. In our language externally here in this context means something that is not an audit of BiH institutions. That's it, and now whether it's going to be a home page or a page, say _________: [[no microphone turned on]] Very easily, I'll connect in the next way. And entities have their own audit houses, which are auditing entity operations of entity institutions, please I understand it this way. So entities also have their own audit houses, those that have been set up to audit entity operations, and now whoever is doing an audit of such a house as this administration or the Direct Taxation Directorate, will probably need to look at the results there, to compare, to see the findings etc. Because he may have some very important data that he doesn't have here. That's why he's doing that audit. And now, for me, all that's externally and externally, is all that's not an audit, so BiH's audit or entity audit. 27 It is external, not outside BiH as a state. That's for me, that's how I interpret it. So this second one doesn't rule out for me that one day this board says there's a good house sitting here in Banja Luka, doing a review, she'll do it to you. Next time someone's gonna say they need this... to do it or someone like that who understands it, so they're gonna take it from the outside. For me, this here does not mean that it is someone outside BiH or from BiH, but outside the institutions. I'm sorry about that. So watch out, Mr. Spasojević. It's very possible that you know more than I do, because I know one rule. One who participated in the work of the law knows much better what the one who targeted the text of the law is. So I'm not going into it, I'm going to be happy to keep it quiet, but if I don't have information about how he's been discussing himself right now, but I'm only sharing what's written in the law, I understand it like this, and I'm saying that this is how you can legitimately read it. And if I'm right about that reading, that's another thing. In other words, I'll just finish this the next way. All this debate shows that this member is very clumsyly formulated, certainly and the subject is important. I'm afraid neither is your amendment that has absolutely good intentions. I fully support it, therefore, to find a formula that will be correct and that will provide both annual control and five-year and adhoc control if it shows why it is self-annual. What I know can happen between two years that will require control. So I agree completely on the need to establish control, but not even this text here is completely unclear nor your amendment can solve all of this in one short time. I therefore believe that we should go to this member, that this member should be adopted without amendments, and I am convinced that within one year we will have to make amendments and additions to the laws that these things will specify. Thank you, I really won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1695	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1696	I apologize again, Mr. Čengić, just to speak your simple language. The Committee will engage, as soon as the Committee is engaged, it must be paid. And it's a foreign audit. And I'm just saying our audit that we keep on the budget, which we're paying for, and we're separating for that money, she's bound to do her audit work over the course of one year, once twice when she thinks it and we don't pay it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1697	We pay but not specifically yes. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1698	No, we pay for it in the budget, not specifically, and this when we hire, we'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1699	Mr. Ilija Filipović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1700	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, you see this is a very interesting formulation of Article 35 and I share the full opinion of Mr. Čengić that this can be interpreted in a double way. I don't doubt what you're talking about. I don't doubt that there is a Law on the Audit of Financial Business of the Institution, this BiH, and that this law on the revision of the BiH institutions' audit offices is obliged to carry out the audit of these institutions every year. So I don't doubt that. Now when we talk about Article 35 and when we talk about the formulation that the Committee can engage the services of an external professional body, I understand that it is a foreign, foreign audit house and, at the same time, that it is a private auditory house in BiH, but not a Committee on the Audit of Institutions, so the State Committee on the Audit of the Institutions of BiH. So it's quite clear, and what Mr. Spasojević suggested. Mr. Spasojević clearly asks for the audit of these institutions to be carried out every year from home-authorized public audit houses. Perhaps if we accept that the obligation of the audit office is defined to carry out the audit every year and these, the operations of this house, then we might be able to reconcile, it is now a matter for Mr. Spasojević to accept the possible redefining of his amendment, i.e. that the amendment is adapted to the redefinition of Article 35. If I may, and I would suggest what would essentially mean reconciliation, it means this notion that there is a revision of already state institutions, and that here with the involvement of an external professional body we say that like this. That the Committee will hire external professional body services to carry out an annual review of the work of the Management as well as studies on the collection and distribution of revenue carried out by the Management, this procedure shall be carried out I would also say with services further as follows. The Federation and RS public audit institutions are the same conditions. It's about paying and it's a very, very expensive job, it's a very professional job, and if we redefine this article, Article 35, I think we'd like to meet and this is what Mr. Spasojević's amendment is talking about. Therefore, they would not be engaged as co-workers but would be as well as the services of an external professional body they would be entirely identical services under the same conditions and domestic audit houses. So, that's an opportunity if I'm clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1701	I thank Mr Filipović. He answered again in front of the promoter, Mr. Kumalić, please. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1702	I think we should definitely clear up with this notion on the outside. Normally, it only implies that it's outside the board, outside of these state audits. This applies to private audits, and it can be domestic, it can be foreign. I think it's Mr. Čengić and the gentleman who interpreted it well. And that's now confirmed by Mr. Jansen. So this formulation can. In the beginning, this engagement is only taken for the sake of trust in order to revive the institution. Not to say it's 70% of public income.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1703	I thank Mr. Kumalić. It's obvious they'll be asking for your attention. It is obvious that after the adoption of this law we will have to adopt a conclusion that we will approve a normative technical arrangement and this law, as well as the Air Force Act, given the different interpretations of certain meanings, certain words in these languages. We had a very, very broad discussion about this amendment. May I have your attention, Mr. Spasojević, it's your amendment, it's your amendment. A very exhaustive debate has been conducted, not long since it seems to me that this many debates have been debated on one amendment. Whether or not the amendment promoter wants to correct something, since he had calls and suggestions from others. All right, the promoter's right. He's the only one who has the right to correct whether it's according to the Rules of Procedure. Here's Mr. Genjac to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1704	Before the vote, this is not just a matter of regular audit carried out by the BiH institutions or the BiH Audit Office. So, this amendment does not only propose what there is and what is a legal obligation, but this amendment says a business review will be carried out by the BiH Auditors' houses and audits by the RS and the Federation. Therefore, the public audit institutions of BiH and the public audit institutions of the entity, and the Administration is a single body, i.e. the BiH institution. ________: Gopodine Genjac could be here or an entity. [[no microphone turned on]] 30 Neither can nor because it is an even more unfavourable solution, please there is an Office for the Review of BiH, you know a Administration for indirect taxation of BiH institutions and this unique institution, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1706	I thank Mr. Genjac. If anyone else wants to talk, please use the pay phone. Mr. Spasojević has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1707	I don't know why Mr. Genjac is so afraid of the RS and the Federation. Here I am proposing this amendment I will do anything, I will stay on this one, but after BiH, we will put an end to it. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1708	Mr. Kumalić has the advantage, so Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1709	So, I apologize to the chairman, really given that he was directly called so that I could speak. So, Mr. Spasojević, I am absolutely not afraid of entities or the RS or the Federation or, but I am afraid of nightmares that could arise in case one BiH institution is said to be audited by three audit institutions. Please, therefore, this in the way Mr. Spasojević suggested it should be said, a business review will be carried out by the BiH audit houses and period, I think at the same time some improvement, but is still talking about the multitude of BiH audit houses. It makes sense in the language formulation only that the BiH Audit Office makes sense, but normatively it does not because it is a legal obligation and we cannot even prevent it. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1710	You're giving up on her.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1711	I think we were eating that the regular annual review of the BiH Audit Office is being taken into account. Therefore, this amendment does not really have any purpose. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1712	I thank Mr. Kumalić. We've had 15 turns on this amendment. Does anyone else want to talk? We're going to a plea. Please come out for a pay phone, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1713	I can't figure out the promoter, that he can't understand or possibly understand, but I don't know how, but I understand it this way. Now if I take it wrong, here's your judgment. Over a period of 5 years, following the entry into force of this law, the Committee will hire the services of an external professional team to carry out an annual work review. So, every year, the board will hire a foreigner to run past us, and they'll use us to give me that information, give me this one, give me that one. I don't think there's any need for five years to be done, for strangers to take a look at it for five years. If they suspect something about our audit that's being performed on a regular basis once a year, I can say in three years, let's see if you've done it right. That's what it says here in the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1714	Mr. Spasojević, are you correcting or not correcting your amendment? _______: [[no microphone turned on]] So Mr. Spasojević redesigned his amendment. We have a point behind the words of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here's the secretary to read exactly what Mr. Spasojević's amendment is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1716	What Mr. Spasojević suggested should be like this. So, in Article 35, paragraph 1 of the end behind the word Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of the decimal point is placed, and the words of the Federation and the Republika Srpska are deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1717	Well, I guess he knows I'm a Spasojević. He's an amendment maker. Well, the amendment applies to Article 35. 32 Mr. Genjac has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1718	Mr. Spasojević did not mean the text of the law, Mr. Spasojević thought of his amendment and is ready to give up the wording as follows – for every year since the entry into force of this law, the audit of the management operations by the Bosnia and Herzegovina's audit houses will be carried out. And the revision of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is deleted. This is not acceptable to me for the following reason, because for every year since the entry into force of this law, the audit of the management's operations will be carried out. That's right. But the audit of the management's operations will not be carried out by auditors' houses, but rather by the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Audit Office. Therefore, the only acceptable formulation is - for each year since the entry into force of this law, a review of the management's operations will be carried out by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Review Office point. It's true and it's reality. Bosnia and Herzegovina's audit houses will not be audited by the Office. So, since it's legally formulated, then. It will be executed by the office i.e. By law prescribed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1719	But it's not at the Serbian office. [[Common discussion]] Wait, you didn't. Mr. Spasojević, please be quiet. A kolega of Filipović. A colleague. Please be quiet. Mr. Spasojević, please come out and read your final version of your amendment. Go ahead, Mr. Šiljegović, since he is in agreement with Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1721	Dear gentlemen, since it was done and talked in the crowd of the proposed amendment and there was the word of the auditory house, it was thought of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the audit houses of Republika Srpska and the Federation. So we have the plural, we return to – for every year since the entry into force of this law, a review of the management's operations will be carried out by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Review Office point. And it's acceptable for all clubs. 33 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1722	I would like to make a statement, to vote on this proposal for Amendment VI to Mr Spasojević. Who's in? - Ten for who is against this amendment? Niko. Who's being held back? - 2 I find this amendment to Mr. Spasojević has been adopted. By the next one or by this one? I thought you wanted to thank me for adopting the amendment. Next is Amendment VII of Mr Zoran Spasojević. The Proposer has a word, proposing an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1723	I apologize again to you, but since this amendment VII was in one commission phase, this text was extracted from the integral starting text, so I tried to return it. However, this has been returned to the text and I am giving up this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1724	I thank Mr. Spasojević. I understand that Mr. Zoran Spasojević's amendment to the seventh amendment has failed. Now it's time for the alignment break to mean the Kolegijum, so I'm pretty much familiar with the views of the course. I suggest we take a short break to keep it here. Here's Mr. Genjac answering for his word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1725	All I'm asking is that before this break we're on a clear ground of business. Article 60. A Rules of Procedure that says about these situations when an entity majority and an entity-needed number of votes are not reached. In that case, the chairman may set a 60-minute break, during which a solution will be sought. That's step one. It's a 60-minute break we're about to take. Up to 60 minutes, 5 minutes, but up to 60 minutes. The second step, if not achieved, is not the majority, the issue has not been resolved, the president is calling on the College within the next 3 days to reach agreement. 34 Please, that's two steps. Now we're talking about this first one to be clear that we're talking about the first break. I stress this because a member of the College is not present to have that in mind when we talk. Because the statute institute of the College is very clearly defined. No one can replace a member of the College, that you mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1726	I'm taking a break. How many are we going to do? If you're going to have lunch, I'll take a longer break? I'm taking a 60-minute break. Do we have a quorum at this point? [[PAUZA]] It looks like only in Serbian is an hour 60 minutes. ________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] I don't have a bell or a hammer, but I will when I am. So we're continuing today's session. There was a break in which the alignment was carried out under these amendments that had not been given the necessary majority. So it is Mr. Zoran Spasojevic's IV amendment and Mr. Zoran Spasojević's amendment. I can inform you that the members of the College have not reached agreement. So let's go to a statement on who is against these amendments, according to Article 60(3). So now we vote who's against the amendment. Who is against Amendment IV submitted by delegate Zoran Spasojević? We vote, well here's the first vote of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means seven against. It is not necessary to declare from Republika Srpska delegates at all that all present delegates from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina were against amendment IV to Mr Zoran Spasojević. Let's get the Mostars together and they'll be fine. Amendment to the delegate Zoran Spasojević. We're voting again so who's against the amendment? Here we go again, giving the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina a statement? Who is against Amendment V of the delegate Zoran Spasojević? - Seven against. They may conclude that neither Amendment IV nor Amendment V of the delegate Zoran Spasojević has passed. 35 Now, yes, yes. Is it a vote or something? We do. No, I don't. If you'll excuse me before I vote, I'd like to take my word for it, and I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1728	Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1729	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Greetings, then, to all and from this place. I just wanted to say a few things that are probably clear to all of us that this taxation law is actually one of the most important reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, I will only remind myself of some of the things that I assume we all know, but here is the public, and even before the vote itself, there are two key reasons for this fiscal reform, and that is a very bad situation in the tax pay, i.e... the occurrence of poor tax collection. Another very important reason is the transformation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in line with European standards on our path to the EU. The most important thing perhaps passed by this law is to provide macro-economic stability and fiscal sustainability for Bosnia and Herzegovina. By failing to adopt this law, Bosnia and Herzegovina would lead to my opinion in full isolation and completely derail us from the European path. This law has been public for a long time, as I've already said, and I don't think it took a lot of us to understand its economic logic. I'd like to ask you to vote for this bill on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1730	We thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1731	Now we're going to the vote. So now we're going to make a statement about the Law of Indirect Taxation. Who's for the adoption of this law? - There are 10 delegates present for the adoption of the law. Excuse me. Who's against it? - against the adoption of this law is 1 delegate. Who's being held back? - abstention 1. We also have most of the votes and we have the entity majority. The law was passed in a different text compared to the one adopted in the House of Representatives and I propose that we immediately appoint three members of the committee from the House of Peoples to bring this text into line, the text of this law. So we're naming three members from the House of Nations, and I'm calling on the club bosses to make their proposals. I want to go to the pay phone. Okay. 36 Here are the Bošnjak proposing Mr. Brk, the Serbian club Spasojevic proposes, and the Croatian club, the Croatian club proposes to Mr. Ilija Filipović. This law should be passed if Bog gives this year. Yes, it is. We therefore expect that, according to my information, the House of Representatives will be held on 18th of this month, and they will appoint their members of the Commission at that meeting and here is my proposal and appeal, together with the need to adopt this law as quickly as possible, so that, when the members of the House of Representatives are appointed, they will meet immediately within two days of the date of the adoption of this law and that we can consider it definitely adopted. Yeah, we still have to vote on these board members. Who is it that members of the House of the People's Commission agreeing to the Law on indirect taxation be Mr. Osman Brka, Mr. Zoran Spasojević and Mr. Ilija Filipović? - Ten for it. Who's against it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I agree, there are no abstentions, since we were all for, or against, I find that the elected members of the committee are part of Brk, Spasojević, Filipović. We move on to the next and last item of the agenda of today's session, it's Ad. 4. The conclusion of delegates Tomislav Lim, the terms of criminal correctional offices in Bosnia and Herzegovina established in international conventions, will remind you that at its 11th session held on 2 September, the House of Peoples held a debate and tasked the Constitutional and Legal Commission to consider the proposed conclusions of delegates Tomislav Lim, establish the final text and deliver them to the House of Nations for adoption. You've received a notice from the Constitutional and Legal Commission regarding this conclusion. Does the Constitutional and Legal Commission have a need to state the Commission's position? Here comes Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1732	Dear ladies and gentlemen, just for a little while. So we were given the task of establishing the final text of the proposal for conclusions proposed by Tomislav Limov. The Constitutional and Legal Committee considered this and unanimously established the text of the conclusions you received with the call for a session and proposed that this House accept these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1733	I thank my colleague Filipović. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. brkati. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1734	Zoran, you took three hours today. If I take three minutes, don't be mad. What I can do. I'd really like to say a few sentences about these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1735	I'm just a little sorry, Mr. brkati. I have to hang up. We don't have a quorum at this point. Mr. brk, continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1736	Thank you. When Mr. Limov first made the suggestion that we should discuss this... the statutes, I really supported it, because I am one of the people who, under the circumstances, had the opportunity to go around these institutions a little bit and I know that the situation is difficult and this is really one thing that should have been done before. I wouldn't repeat anything about what I have in these conclusions. Maybe something else should be differentiated. I mean, a lot of things around here are about finance, and it's gonna take a lot of them. As far as I know, I'm no expert, but as far as I know, it's going to take a really big investment to bring things to the level we're talking about here about standards, conventions, human rights, European conventions from that UN, etc. And it is, in any case, to support it, but that we will be able to do it all in these deadlines here, I highly doubt it. That's what I'm saying. However, they have some things that don't take six months, and here I feel like I mean for some things, is 6 months time this 6 this and then up. So everything doesn't stay for six months. Namely, within 6 months, the national structure of employees in all criminal correctional institutions in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area agrees with the existing one from '91. So I'm 100% convinced it doesn't take six months. That if there's any goodwill, political will, or any other will, it can be done in two months. That doesn't take six months. Or, for example, to ensure that all convicts receive food that by quantity and quality will be consistent with the standards of the rules and separate the kitchen and the types of food according to the religious requirements of the convicts. That's why it doesn't take six months. It just needs the political will and will structure of the administration of those institutions that work there to do so. So I agree with all these conclusions, but they need to be redefined and their other deadlines set. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1737	I thank Mr. Brk. You had the opportunity to react to this before procedure. I also agree with some of your findings. 38 Is there anyone else you want to talk about? Here's Mr. Limov's proposal he doesn't want. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1738	So distinguished colleagues, since we have already discussed this issue very thoroughly and also the general proposal for conclusions, no matter how much time it would take. For some things it would probably, some things could be done in a shorter period. However, this does not mean if it is said within 6 months that something cannot be done within a short period. And of course we should do, work and do, but I think it's good to keep this restriction, not for more than six months. And I think it's important that we go with this one initiative. I have no doubt that there will be problems both technical and financial, etc. It is important to open this process. I think it's important that we take this home as a task, maybe take it as a conclusion with these conclusions, or that next time we talk about it, that this home takes its own task to carry out a kind of review after six months of what's been done. I think that would be important. And of course we put ourselves at the disposal of the competent institutions if we can be of some use. So I suggest we adopt these conclusions in the text as proposed. I suggest that we further agree that within six months we will request a report on the realization of these conclusions and I assume that we will then agree to form a committee of the House to visit these criminal correctional institutions and check on the ground what has been done about it and to move into this process by adopting these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-10-0.u1739	I thank Mr. Čengić. I immediately suggest that we do not adopt this conclusion today, but that it be at the next session and that it should be done even more if it needs to be done. Anyone else want to talk? Niko. The terms of the pleas for the conclusion proposed by Mr Limov on the terms of criminal correctional institutions in the BiH area have been obtained. I'm asking you, who's for the conclusion that Mr. Limov suggested? _________(?) 39 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] I accept the correction of the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. This is the conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, on Mr Tomislav Lim's proposal. I find that this conclusion has been unanimously adopted and I congratulate Mr Limov on the well-prepared commission. This exhausted the agenda and ended the 15th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you, and I'll see you later. The session was completed at 3:15 p.m.
