ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10383	..24th Session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the MPs at the session, the chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OHR representative, the EU representative, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the representatives of the OHR, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the UN mission representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of NGOs, the Centre for Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I welcome all MPs and guests to the session. According to the service report, I find that 33 MPs attend the session, which means that we have a quorum, we can make valid decisions. The absence was justified, in fact, announced that Mr. Jusufović and Mrs. Azra Hadđiahmetović would be late. So we expect their presence to be the other MPs. The justice from this session was announced only by Mr. Ćeman. And therefore, I expect the other colleagues to join our meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly Council. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you've received a draft agenda for the 24th session. So that's what you get three points on the agenda. That's one. Proposal for a law on defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act, first reading and 3. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration, first reading. I want to inform you and apologize for being half an hour late. We had a session of the extended College, and the extended College accepted that as the 4th item of the agenda of today's session, a confirmation of the BiH Presidency's decision on the election of the BiH Ombusmen was found. 2 So this is what an extended college suggests as a agenda. It's a binding agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Moranjkić answered the words, yes, so please welcome Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10385	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow MPs, MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have applied for this speaker now for two reasons. First, to respond to this session's call. It was called to Bajram, the largest holiday of Islamic peoples, the peoples of Islamic religion, and it was thus impossible for all three days to be used for that holiday to that end. Worse still, by not only being the last day, it's what we used today, but what we had to be on the road before and getting ready for this session. I wonder if this holiday for other peoples will be the same procedure. And secondly, point four, she left time at the MPs' club whether to be included or not. The BOS Club, the DNZ and the work for improvement have taken the view that the principles on which the whole point is practically based are not acceptable and that our Club will refrain from voting. Thank you very much, and we accept that there's a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10386	I thank my colleague Moranjkić. I'd really like to pray for responsible people to sit in college. We respect, of course, religious holidays. We took care therefore that no one was intended in any way to allow people to celebrate, those celebrating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also congratulated them on the holidays, on the responsibility and roles of Parliament regarding the adoption of the law, so we scheduled this session, so to all who celebrate Bajram we congratulate them once again. I think it's our duty to work and make important laws for Bosnia and Herzegovina today. It will be the best contribution to those who celebrate today and I am sorry that my colleague Moranjkić on this finding here I do not know what he wanted to say. Whether or not the College broke something. I don't think so. I think it's a good thing he said he supports the agenda, but when we get to the vote, he'll probably say the club will vote. It's not good for us to plead in advance, but that agenda item at the College has been accepted. So there's no need for us to discuss this point in particular until it's on the agenda. I just wanted a little clarification, thank you. The word was asked for by Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10387	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I am at an extended College, which was completed a few minutes ago, seeking 3 fully aware of business opportunities and inability to remove the first item from today's session of the agenda. For what? I also want to say here at the House that in the shortest lines I can do again. I have found, through analysis and insight into the law, that there are differences in the version of the law proposed by the Council of Ministers and the laws given to MPs. I also found that there were differences between the laws received by both MPs. So there is a difference in the text between the laws that MPs received. That question I have warned it with my amendment, and that question is practically the previous question. It means a question that needs to be resolved before we can resolve the issue of voting for or against the law. As far as I am informed, and I ask the Council of Ministers to do so here, from this place says someone in front of the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers has agreed on a period of 7 days, to determine these differences and determine how they happened, with the fact that again as far as I am aware there, it has been confirmed that they exist. Of course it's very difficult to vote on it without us passing the law that we don't know which one we adopted. I don't want to vote without knowing what text of the law we voted or didn't vote on. I think in that sense, the College had to react earlier, considering all the seriousness of this issue. And that's what I'm saying I warned you with my amendment, which means there was a chance if someone read it to realize that it could be a problem. Obviously, no one understood that, and apparently, some people don't care what the text is, because they already know in advance how they're going to vote no matter what it is. The second question is the issue of the constitutional amendments to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which is scheduled for tomorrow, and I don't know who needed this urgency, when we could wait quietly and finish this job Monday. I think we could have done it much better and the story and the College should visit Slovenia. Well, I guess visiting Slovenia is less important than adopting the BiH Defence Act, although I am fully aware of the importance of the visit. I, of course, clearly state the SDS' position. We are fully aware of the importance of reform. We showed it by voting for this law in the first reading. We are fully prepared to accept the responsibility and burden of reform. Gentlemen, the burden of reform will have to bear those who have a mouthful of Bosnia and Herzegovina behind this pay phone, and in Banja Luka, a mouth full of Republika Srpska. With the žurba to adopt this law here before the debate, the National Assembly will not be able to remove that level of responsibility. And that attempt to take it off really doesn't make sense. I reiterate, that the SDS Club is ready to take the Defence Act, in the way it is intended to be accepted, that is to say, but respecting these remarks that I was talking about. I think we're getting into a rather complicated situation, and I suggest first that the Council of Ministers make a statement about what I said. So, about the different texts and about their conclusion or their attitude or whether there was even a debate there. After that, I suggest a break and I'll say right away what I see the solution to. The solution I see is that the declaration of amendments and the law is delayed by Monday, so we may be having a debate today, although I don't think it would make sense if we plead Monday. But if there's such a mood, I don't mind. So, my concrete proposal is to discuss this 4 pause and I suggest that an extended College be held at the break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10388	I thank my colleague Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen, you've all received amendments, passed the laws, I assume you've leveled the texts. There is also the Council of Ministers, the amendments will, of course, be declared in a democratic procedure. I beg, therefore, one tolerable debate and that simple clubs are being arranged to see this law see the light of day. I don't think anyone should particularly be told what this law means and what it meant to work so far on making this law. And I think it's just a matter of who's in a hurry. It's not a good question. I think the College took care of it, you knew last time everyone knew the session was going to be today. And we scheduled it at the last end of the session, so I think there was plenty of time who wanted to prepare. By not disputed these allegations by Mr Momčilo Novaković, who also holds the meeting of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Mr. Belkić came forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10389	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, so we will support that this item of the agenda remains on the agenda, as well as the extended College agreed. After all, the Rules of Procedure speak to her. However, I went out with the intention of trying to convince Mr. Novaković, or to explain to him how I see her, and perhaps that these reasons he presented are not of the nature that we could not work today. Namely, what he himself called the previous question, he also offered a way of solving it. So he went with the amendments where he pointed out in Articles 8, 12, etc. in these versions of the language difference and the promoter, I believe that he is ready and ready to stand up, therefore, the Council of Ministers that he is ready and that today's rise to tell the MPs, gentlemen, this is a version which is an official proposal from the Council of Ministers. We will remove the problem of the previous issue on this finding, team before Mr. Novaković pointed out in his amendments that we have all received. So that's when it comes to the first reason Mr. Novaković thinks we're not getting up today, it wouldn't be good to discuss this agenda point. When it comes to the second reason he cited here today, therefore, it is about waiting for the session of the RS Assembly to discuss amendments to the RS Constitution, I am looking at the matter in principle. In fact, it is high time that we, on several occasions as the Constitutional and Legal Commission, asked the BiH Presidency to open the coordination process, to determine how jurisdiction issues are addressed, etc. Not every time the other version. When we had a draft Law on indirect taxation, we went to final transitional provisions, against which the Party for BiH was that the law would not come into force until it was signed by entity governments. Now we can't discuss the law until there's a session of an entity's Assembly. So we simply can't go out every time with some variant of finding and modeling how and on which entities support certain projects. 5 I think it is already RS, its organs etc. through your vote for the principles and principles of the law, etc. opened the door to MPs from RS that they could be determined according to the law, but it seems to me that the problem is of another kind. That the problem of another species, according to what a man in public hears and goes through, etc. in preparation for a session of the Republic of Republika Srpska Assembly, some issues are raised in relation to the solutions in the law. And the question is, after the session of the RS Assembly, whether they will have another kind of story and re-enactment. As far as we're concerned, the BiH Party, we don't mind. It would be very stubborn, unprincipled to say the sea now. We can wait three, five days. It's not on some key problem, but the problem is in principle, the same thing we'll have in five days. Maybe even more complicated. So we're staying on the agenda and we're going to determine this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10390	I thank Mr. Belkić. I just want to say that today we have members of the expert team working on this bill, Mr. Đems Loker, whom I warmly welcome, Mr. General Sav Sukanović, we have ministers from the Council of Ministers. So, if anyone needs a special interpretation of the expert work, today we can get that, and most certainly, Jelina Đurković answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10391	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Party of Democratic Progress are also joining the initiative to postpone the first item of the agenda today, for these reasons already talked about by Mr. Novaković, because we really do not agree with the text of the Defence Act. There's a difference in text, two types, and I don't see any reason to rush. In fact, we know that, we voted for principles, we are not against the law, but we are asking that this text alignment be respected, and we are asking that the decision of the RS Assembly be respected, simply to respect the procedure that is necessary in order to really make sure that the legal procedure is respected and that there is no small misunderstandings or any leftovers in the way and in which the law is adopted. If the law remains on the agenda today, I will leave that part of the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10392	I thank my colleague Đurković. Dr. Sead Avdić picked up the phone, please. And I apologize to Miloš Jovanović. I'm sorry you're right, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10393	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to tell Mr Belkić, so that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Commission's Report on Reform. 6 The other thing, also one of the conclusions is that they must, that the constitution of RS must be changed. I speak here means, both as a man and as an MP. So I swore here that I'd respect it, means one and another Constitution. So until the RS Constitution changes, I'd say I wouldn't vote for this law and I wouldn't hold a debate. Second of all, I assume you've all got it. We also received one letter from the Council of Ministers. I'm just gonna go through one piece. As regards the above, we would like to inform you that at the 28th session of the BiH Council of Ministers, held on 10.10., the Council of Ministers decided to propose to the House of Representatives to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of BiH, in accordance with procedure 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and that the debate on the law should take place after the same law has been discussed by the entity parliaments. So, that was in the extreme sense of meaning and the conclusion of the Council of Ministers and other things, obviously I think it's clear to everyone. I don't really know who was in a hurry right now, but it also means that we didn't adopt this law to go through an emergency procedure, so this, a member of the Rules of Procedure means he's going to pick up 104, and apparently means that this is where it came from means that today he's going to be a Assembly and tomorrow the National Assembly is going to adopt amendments to the RS Constitution. So I really don't see any reason for this law to be passed on Thursday or Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10394	I thank my colleague Miloš Jovanović. Dr. Sead Avdić picked up the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10395	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I also wish to present to you on behalf of the Mixed Club the position that it is necessary for this point as a proposal to remain on the agenda of today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The reasons and arguments for this is quite logical, it's a come... deal from last session of the House of Representatives. Two, this is the first truly serious test of political will, not only the parliamentary majority and opposition in terms of meeting the 16 conditions ahead of us in terms of signing the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, but simply before the last step towards joining the EU, which means that this is indeed a law, one of the roof laws of system law, and in this context, it has been hard-wired for months. There's been a consensus, and I really don't see any serious reason for us to just take this law off the agenda today. Unless it is an intensities simply to make this law an exclusive product of entity parliaments and simply entity parliaments re-create their constitutional amendments a practical solution to the Defence Act. It would be an extremely bad message. Simply an inappropriate expression in the sense that this country is not a simple collection of two entities and Brcko District. This state is a bit more than that, from a simple collection, which means that the BiH Constitution allows and asks entities to help and simply provide all the help in simple realization and attitudes from the Constitution we know which, political independence, integrity of territorial sovereignty, etc., which is in BiH's jurisdiction. Which means, I see you should put on the agenda amendments that are ahead of us to seriously consider, review and in this context remove any 7 contradictions in terms of texts that are in three languages in the parliamentary procedure and in this context there have been some contradictions of linguistic, simple dissension and it is not a problem that we do not agree today, which means that it would not be a good idea to postpone it today with the fact that this would be a very bad message to the European community and simply our political will to move towards a serious fulfillment of these 16 conditions in order to sign this Stabilisation and Association Treaty as soon as possible. That's what I would say to BiH's political future. The consensus we have reached, in which there is no controversy, there is no discrepancies and I think it would be good for the SDS Club to also accept a simple debate on this issue. We need to discuss the law. And not to bid on who will vote for the law, who won't vote for the law, etc. But we think that before this, we have achieved a hard time, achieved a minimum of political consensus on this system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10396	I thank Dr. Avdić. I'd like to ask my colleagues to come forward with Liljana Miličević, a replica. Let me just say that this is, so we have to take care of the Rules of Procedure, so that the debate doesn't wear out, this is a mandatory item of the agenda in the Rules of Procedure. So we open up the debate, we can say all this when the agenda comes up, but those who propose a new variant have to say business find. This is according to the Rules of Procedure a binding item of the agenda. I'm asking everyone who works here that we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Novaković contacted the river, and Mrs. Ljiljana Miličević answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10397	I went out to replicate to Mr. Sejo Avdić, although I don't think he meant it, but for the public's sake, I want to make this matter completely clear. Therefore, it is correct to attach it to the SDS Club that it does not want this law and that it is not aware of the conditions necessary to enter the Partnership for Peace. So we are absolutely aware of the conditions, we are aware of the obligations that have been accepted and in that sense for us is not contentious and gentlemen what is, which is, which is controversial, I have said. I don't see any reason we can't end this thing on Thursday. The other thing is, I was looking for a break and I'm guessing the chairman wants to wear out the debate, so he can give me that break.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10398	Whenever you ask as club president, you'll get it, but you said that when the debate was over you'd be looking for a break. That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10399	Now I'm looking for a break when this one's over, and I'm asking for a break to this one, so I'm asking for an extended college to be called.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10400	I thank you, Miličević Ljiljana answered the word. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10401	Dear Presidency, esteemed guests, fellow MPs, here we are in the debate on the agenda, therefore, which we cannot influence, listening to fellow predecessors, I find it appropriate to say that in the documents we received and read, therefore, the law in the first reading was accepted. The Defence Reform Commission, which we have formed, calls for members of Constitution 3. 5a), 3. 1a), 3. 2b) etc. And here we have accepted, so we have jurisdiction, jurisdiction of the institutions, jurisdiction of the entity. These are the contents and parliamentary powers, the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly. We stood behind it and said it was a law that was a compromise, that it was a law that we would support, a good reading, a try to fix it, and we worked together on it. And it bothers me very much that I'm here hearing the story of the SDS trying to obstruct this law. I cannot accept it because I cannot accept it the same way when there was a statement on the procedure, when the Council of Ministers demanded that we go along with Article 104, we made it clear and loud that we were against Article 104 because we said that the adoption of a law in which we would actively participate, implies discussion, lengthy discussion, changes to the Constitution that must happen, so Mr Terzić, by his letter quoted by Mr Jovanović, also reminded us of that. That's all there is to it. So, I don't want to listen to the story here, because I actually admit this law to you most based on the political will of the people who entered this project. And no one from the SDS can tell us that we have not expressed our political will and participated in the adoption of this law. So much more important than all the members of this is the political will we have made. So we want to enter this project and accept it as a project that leads to a partnership for peace. So we don't want to take the agenda off. We only asked you, therefore, to understand that if we want it to be Saturday or Sunday, we are ready because the entity Assembly of the RS needs to declare the changes to the Constitution, which will give our decision here an additional legitimacy. I believe that this should not be a dissension, if we are common meaning, by common political will and compromise, we have reached the bill, it cannot be disputed for 24 or 48 hours. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10402	I thank Mrs. Miličević. Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the vice-president, picked up the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10403	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think today would be a very bad message to the Bosnian Herzegovina and the world public if the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today took this first item off the agenda, i.e. The defense law in the second reading. After all, it's not even possible to do business. I call on all my colleagues, I call on all political parties, therefore, to enter into a debate on this law and to accept what has been politically agreed in BiH in the last few months. 9 Looking back on the reasons, therefore, on the basis of a full analysis of what Mr. Novaković was talking about, I would therefore like to say the following. This is the document, the Commission's Defence Reform Report, which we held a heated public debate before it was signed by a representative of the Commission, which was attended by representatives of all three constituent peoples and attended by representatives of both Bosnian Herzegovina entities. So that's the first fact. The second fact is that the Council of Ministers also accepted the Commission's report, using the basis of the bill's proposal. The reference that has been made here and concerning the different language variants or possible discrepancies of the proposal for a law with the Commission report is an objection which may be the subject of discussion and believe that I personally and here I believe that I can speak on behalf of the SDA Club, although Mrs Palavrić is present here, she is invited as president of the club to speak. So as far as this is concerned, we will support everything that is in the Commission's Defence Reform Report politically agreed and translated into law, so that these language variants, therefore, will not be a problem, but right away you know that below that we will not go. Below that, we cannot go, as this says, is the attainment of the political consensus in BiH. As for the debate on the need to maintain the RS Assembly, the adoption of amendments to the Constitution, I would also like to present a basic analysis and leave it to your mind. First, the RS Assembly discussed the Law on Defence and therefore, a position was given, the report was adopted, as Mr Novaković himself said, the Commission's Defence Reform Report was adopted. And that, therefore, is a public-known fact, and I think that's quite enough. The constitutional and legal commission of this parliament has established a constitutional basis for the existence of this law. It was established before that by the Council of Ministers. We also confirmed it, respecting the last time and adopting the law in the first reading, that is, by accepting principles. It is quite enough and more than enough for the state parliament to discuss all aspects, elements and details of this law. To bind this parliament, to a debate in the RS Assembly when it is discussed details is to actually tie the hands of this parliament, that within the constitutional basis and within its jurisdiction it can debate and make appropriate decisions. I understand that the Constitution says that jurisdiction can be transferred, but that no state parliament and no entity in BiH can say, dictate or set out the conditions that a certain solution should ultimately look like. It is the obligation and responsibility of this House. Dear colleagues, I therefore call on you one more time to understand the delicateness of all together and I would say first and foremost the seriousness of the moment in which BiH is present, when it comes to restructuring the defence-security sector, to take care of the fact that this is one of the essential conditions that should send a picture of BiH as a future if Bog gives the refentant a candidate for a partnership for peace and to address this fact in the light of these objectives of BiH. This is also very important from the European Commission's assessment of the feasibility study, where certain conditions are to be met by BiH. Once again, I call on you to enter into the debate, to accept this law, because I think any other solution would send a very bad picture of BiH, both in BiH and in the world. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10404	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The speaker of the House, Mr. Nikola Špirić, answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10405	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, esteemed ministers, you see, I have said my position on this law and when we voted on the principles, when it comes to the Law of Defence, we have proposed amendments. I guess we'll talk about them today if the MPs accept the amendments that we think are good. Of course, we're going to ask today for the will to come to the law. But if today it is said that this law has unconstitutional members, and the adopted principles of law and constitutional law, then something is wrong. Then this is the story for the story. How it is possible that the constitution was a law, that an unconstitutional law would enter the first reading and pass in the first reading, and that it would be unconstitutional in the second reading. There's something else wrong here. So, I have a clear attitude. I will defend him both now and Monday and Friday and whenever the House of Representatives of the State Parliament is scheduled. I think that this, therefore, is what we have available today, as is possible then if the BiH promotions are being made that so much of the desired compromise has been reached, so that this commission has been expertly compromised, that today I, as far as I see it, does not smell like a compromise. I think we have conditions to conduct the debate today. We have conditions to conduct the debate, I wish someone had said this law in time, I said it and voted against the principle. Not because the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia needs to transfer or not to pass, but because it came out of the BiH Constitution a long time ago, so it can't be a little pregnant, it's not a little pregnant. The Constitution is either the Constitution or not the Constitution. So whenever anyone needs to talk a little state, a little entity. So we have a binding agenda today. Everyone will defend their views, aware of their responsibilities and stories, we accept responsibility for reforms. And I accept it. I think this law could go further. And that's why I had my say about the law, and I have it today. So this is what I think is the binding point of the agenda. I respect Mr. Novaković's request for a break. We'll take a break whatever club asks for a snail and we'll take a break all the way to the clubs to disagree with the solution they're up for. I'd like you to ask me to agree on our amendments, no one asked for a break for it. So here is the majority that worked and gave experts to this expert commission. I'm asking a month to work on the alignment, so no one will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10406	I thank Mr. Špirić. Replica or false quote Mr. Novaković. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10407	I really don't want to go into a debate with the chairman or any of the employees, because I don't think this is how the debate leads to what I suggested and what I really want. But I must say, Mr. Špirić, we voted whether there is a constitutional basis for law-making. There is a big difference between the constitutional basis for the adoption of laws and individual members of the law, whether or not they are in agreement with the Constitution. I expect you as chairman to know it quite well and there is no need for any other story. As far as the Reform Commission is concerned, the Commission has agreed on the text. And the text is not controversial. So the text agreed by the Commission is not controversial. It is a controversial text that came here after the Council of Ministers, which differs from the text agreed by the Commission, gentlemen. That's one question. And another question, procedure. I don't know how many times I have to say here from this place that for us it's not a disputed adoption of the law, but that it is controversial until two issues are settled. One text, and the other until the National Assembly finishes their work. I've made it perfectly clear, and I don't really see the need for someone to show it differently. And I said, and my club said its position in this bill by voting on principles, absolutely speaking both publicly and whatever you want. And the people of the SDS took part in the creation of the Commission I speak, participated in the Commission means, in making compromises. And we don't want what they've done to cancel out right now here, in no way, we don't think of it. But we want what we said we wanted, nothing else, and don't look for anything else in what we want except what we really said we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10408	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Jelina Đurković, did you ask for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10409	I want to say one thing. Mr. Chairman said it was agreed or told in the last session that the Council of Ministers should agree this, the text that we have indicated is not, that there are differences. I didn't get that new copy. An example works. In the Commission's report, Article 8 of the Law stands like this. The BiH state is carrying out operational and administrative command and control over the BiH Armed Forces, and that is the point. And as far as I'm told in one part of the copies, one number of copies that have been received by our colleagues stands exactly like this. In a copy that I have further follows in this same number of eight, so it's stuck so it's said during the war, the state of emergency, the peace operations outside the country and during routine training and operations in peace. This is an addition to Article 8 in a copy that I have. Gentlemen, what shall I vote for, and this is not in the course of these seven days, that is one thing. And the other thing, I want to ask him not to sew on to us, so let's people say we're bad guys if we don't pass the law today, and we'll send a bad message to the international community, and since we know who the bad guys are. I don't agree to being a bad guy like this. Do you understand me? I won't do it. Niko of us opposed the law. We're just asking for understanding to respect the procedure. 12 Second thing, I don't know if the Federal Parliament has brought the amendments together, so it's not what we're doing. Why do you do that now? Bad guys from the RS aren't bad guys from the Federation. And we both have a duty to bring our amendments in line. Please let it be, tomorrow is the RS Assembly and let's trust the entities. Why do we think it's just us who need to be trusted, whether it's the international community, whether we're among ourselves. Let's respect the complexity and understanding, firstly that we are a complex state and secondly, respect and trust in those parts that make up this state. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10410	Replica Mr. Špirić, Mr. Živković answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10411	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that we've done business properly. So I'm not talking about the essence of content, and I'd like to know what PDP wants you to give me Bog. Nobody knows that alive. People spend half a year talking about reforms to meet, to create them, to lead them, to have a good relationship, to reach consensus, and now it's like a good law, but just give us time. It's got to be swallowed. It's almost the stomach welds or doesn't weld. There's got to be an end to the story. He has to come once, we're still not talking about the essence of the law, and everyone's been looking for a while. What's the matter? I just can't understand that kind of relationship. You see, there's logic, and there's one story, and there's another story. But at least it has to be consistent. I pray that people do not use the situation that citizens serve every day the story that this is good that it is a painful compromise that has been reached, that it is a National Assembly... and I remember when Mr. Loker was holding, speaking at the National Assembly of the RS, I remember the attitude of the National Assembly of the RS, is that now someone sent another signal. I can't figure out how MPs aren't from the same parties that work there and here. So I'm just asking, one answer, I'm not even going to plead what kind of attitude they're going to have. But let's not make a destruction out of the state parliament. I am not an MP here to appreciate entity parliaments more, I appreciate this parliament the most, but I do not undermine entity parliaments. So, I ask you to behave as MPs of this House. Ambassadors of entity parliaments do their job. Where it says in the Rules of Procedure that we must ask Dragan Kalinić or here the president of the entity parliament when we will schedule the state parliament. If you think such a policy is to lead, then make it public. Vote it in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10412	I thank Mr. Špirić, for his word, Mr. Živković, then Mr. Jahić comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10413	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, with regrets I can only conclude that today for several reasons we are not entering directly into the motives of calling this session we came not to say for nothing. First, it is the 13rd day of Bajram and if I were a member of the Bosniak people, I would not attend this session, as I would not attend a session that would not be scheduled for the Christian holiday. Secondly, tomorrow is the meeting of the National Assembly of RS, and it is not true that it was not known that it would be on Friday when this session was called on Thursday. As I was the first to vote on this law in the first reading, against putting this law in the process until constitutional change has changed in RS, I also believe that it is not necessary and it is not necessary to rush until the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has done so for several reasons. One reason is we have until December 15th. Unless someone has reason to do it today because Mr. Robertson has come, this law is passed today. The second reason is that I think the RS Constitution is more important than the Defence Act, and the larger one has a significant instance. I have asked for the BiH Constitution here, I am a BiH citizen, but I am also a citizen of the RS and there is my residence. It means that I must also protect myself with the law of the RS and the Constitution of the RS. On the other hand, business could have gotten out of this. Why is this called a regular session? Where are the business issues? Where's the record? This could have been a special session. I'm asking for a special session. In Article 47(3), a special session may be called, the same day may be said in which case the session agenda may be organised during its maintenance. The same day with one agenda point to be a special session next week when constitutional changes are made to RS any day, I will come. This regular session should be with these points that do not violate BiH or RS, I will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10414	I thank my colleague Živković. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10415	I'm sorry, I marked the schedule. Mr. Jahić, then Moranjkić, then Palavrić it is the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10416	Dear colleagues and colleagues, So to me, I am absolutely certain, therefore, to all of us here, clear and well-known importance of adopting this reform law and what it means for BiH, that we are constrained by these deadlines for entering a partnership for peace. So it's not the middle of the month, it's the beginning of whether it's next week, and what it means is that as soon as we adopt this law. Also considering that the extended College seemed to have scheduled me for this session, we should have had all these facts in mind, so to make an appointment, so if this was already necessary, so according to those who needed to betray the entity parliament, we should not have scheduled today, but perhaps for that day, two or the beginning of the week. 14 It is also clear to all of us that there is no need, therefore, for the state parliament to be conditioned by the decisions of the entity parliament. So we have the right to make a permanent decision. We also know very well that there is no need to transfer powers from entities to the state by this segment. However, it seems to me that nothing of this will help, nor do I have ambitions that this discussion of mine will change the attitudes and the thinking people who advocate differently, I'm not saying that they think otherwise, today, and if this remains the case obviously we won't adopt this law. So, if this is how it is now, and that's why I'd like to appeal that maybe as soon as we bring this discussion down, that we'll actually create this puzzle, that the extended College is being ambushed and we'll see how we get out of this situation. I just want to say one thing. I am convinced that indeed no one to this Parlamen, therefore any MP, nor any kind of political party wants to obstruct the adoption of this law. However, this is also one of the best examples of the difference between politicians, i.e. statesmen and politicians. You know, the statesman is the one who leads the people, who is ready to make some responsible decisions, which are for the benefit of the people, who may be in the first wave and who may not be able to come across it, and this other politician is the one led mainly by some informal groups or perhaps some other opposing political parties, so on account of these influences, etc. He has to behave differently than he would or would. I'm sure it won't do any good to this Pralement. So, I'm here to discuss today, to pass this law today, but in view of this discussion, I'm afraid this job will not fail us. That's why I urge that, indeed, as soon as possible, this pause that has been requested by the SDS Parliament Club is maintained. And it would be good to keep an extended college, see if we can get out of this situation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10417	Thank you, fellow rider. The word came from Seada Palavrić. Mr. Moranjkić called earlier, and I apologize. And I'd really like to ask that if we're going to make a puzzle to close the debate and give a break, if you think that's the solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10418	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow Mountains, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I have come to try to clear up some things with myself, and then to suggest to this distinguished House some of my thoughts. First, point 1 is mandatory according to the Rules of Procedure and I ask the College, the Council of Ministers then who pushed two versions of which I heard today at the College that there were these laws. Is that well-intentioned, malicious, random? And whoever did this, I'd like him to show up in front of this house and tell us what the result is. Is it really well-intentioned, malicious, random, etc. Now let's start breaking and turning around these two versions. Secondly, what I'm trying to say is that the differences that occurred were also the subject of the amendment. Therefore, I suggest as a well-intentioned 15 MP in this House, that the gentlemen who acted to try to make it clear how many amendments I have made, when the time comes to talk about amendments, so if they have places and if they don't change something in a concept that is hard to agree with, and that has come to accept them and install them, if it isn't to indicate where the failures are, and therefore we will see whether they were well-intentioned or malicious. In other words, let's see where we are. That's why I suggest, and as far as the order of the actions that are going on all the time, please nicely, first you remember the tensions in the last Parliament when two laws are tied to the agenda. The Council Act and the Ministry Act that follows this law, that it is said that it is simply not logical that they go before the law, because they suggest the law is passed. Then I come with myself now to contradiction automatically and these two laws, if we remain consistent with it, and these two laws are lifted. So, in other words, we need to end today's Parliament because it didn't start on the principles we adopted last time. Therefore, if we have agreed and entered the procedure and we have already created mandatory points, and point 1 has become mandatory according to the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that I chair that to the vote, and also to add that we have agreed on an extended College to go to such a agenda, in which we are about to conduct a debate rather than having this broad discussion on the agenda now, but when we talk about the contents. That is why I propose to the Kolegijum that we put the agenda to the vote, and that we go into work and put our opinions in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10419	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. There's no voting on the business agenda. The agenda is binding and binding.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10420	Well, then, what time do we spend?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10421	Well, I don't know, please, thank you very much. I would ask that we bring this debate to an end. The agenda is the one we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10422	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it may seem pointless, but I still feel the need to say a few words. First of all, I would like to say that on the third day of Bajram Ramadan, there is no reason that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is not working at all. Today in BiH everyone works, why parliamentarians would be an exception. I don't see a reason. Secondly, I regret to conclude that some members of the so-called moderate, non-national parties in the time from last session to this day seem to have received a good result, when they said, in RS, that I think Mr Kalinić, Čavić and Ivanić were being blackmailed. I wonder who they'd be blackmailed from and why. Does the citizens of another country need progress towards Euro-Atlantic integration or the citizens of BiH. So, I wish we hadn't bought such statements and wouldn't let those who don't want to improve this country have the results they do today. Whether 16 they really don't want to reform or want to prove that the parliamentary majority can't function, it's completely irrelevant. The result is that BiH is stagnating, and thus its citizens are even turning back. I once again pray to people who have been constructive in reforms so far and in this House and have done what has never been done in the past eight years, for this one year, so let us continue because the Commission's report on defence reform has also been adopted by the parliaments of both entities. The rest is that they're working parallelly on that report. The BiH Parliament and parliaments of both entities. Every single one of your jobs. No Niko is subject to anything anymore, except that we are all conditioned to finish our work before BiH's bid for a partnership for peace should be considered, and it seems to me that the deadline is December 3rd. If we say a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, then tomorrow the session of the Federation of BiH Parliament, which has two homes, we really won't do anything, because in this House we have two homes and I suggest that the way the SDS and the PDP did it reformally, I call on them with all my heart and sense to do it today. I don't think there's any reason we shouldn't do that. The additional legitimacy Mr. Novaković was talking about, we really don't need it. We can do what we started and believe, unlike those who scare people who act reformably in this House, I believe that the citizens of BiH will be grateful to us on every inch of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10423	I thank my colleague Palavrić. The word is Ljilja Miličević. I would pray only, today here is the day everyone will have a chance to show what kind of concern they have for the people, the citizens and the state, and not to give lessons to those who love God are and are not. We all have a chance at the state parliament to say what we are and what we are against. I beg you, here I am chairing, so here you go, Ljilja Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10424	So, first of all, I appreciate what my colleague Palavrić said, but I can't accept it, you see that someone would be blackmailed, there has to be someone who's blackmailing him, I mean there's got to be some kind of relationship, so I'm throwing it away. I will repeat here, all that has been done and what I personally supported and my colleagues is the political will and courage of the political who have been shown by the anointed gentlemen, and we who sit here. So that's how it is. In one word, I repeat again, for the sake of the public, we have not questioned the gentlemen's adoption of the law. And don't make an alarming situation about it, if the law is passed today, we don't have a law, because we've had a situation like this before. The emissaries, who walked all over RS and told their story, I won't. They found their listeners, I didn't listen to that story, and I didn't manage it, and no one influenced me. So, what's this about? We don't question the Defense Act, we don't bring about that alignment, we have an amendment, we have all of them. We joined this, took part in the work of the Commission. We're not questioning reforms. You know we said we were ready to bear the burden of reform and we'll take it all the way out. Because we're big enough. We gentlemen have not asked and rejected this law, we have only asked you Saturday, Sunday, Monday, the day we want to honor the change of the RS Constitution, so that these same emissaries do not leave and say that we 17 have passed the law, have skipped. We also respect our entity parliament and we know that they need to amend the Constitution. We just said we should take a break on the legislation, so that we can explain and look them in the eyes and say that we have acted according to the law both in the Constitution and in the RS and in BiH. That's the way it is. So this is just what we were saying. And all the rest were interpretations and endeavors, each in his own way turned the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10425	Thank you. No one's answering for any further discussion. How much Momo do you want on behalf of the SDS break, how much? Half an hour. A half-hour break. Half an hour's break. You've had advertising, at 1:00, so we'll continue the session. But please, Momčilo, please let's start at 1:00, please, let's have half an hour to eat, there's time. Mr. Momčilo Novaković needs to explain, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10427	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to apologize on behalf of the SDS Club on these breaks, namely this waiting session to begin. I also want to say that we tried in this pause to find some solutions in this, mutual conversation and between individual clubs and also individual MPs, and that the position in which we found ourselves at the beginning has remained now. We are not prepared as a club to enter the risk, to be the only Serbian party to vote for this law, and we have also not come to the understanding that this session is approved until after the National Assembly. I'd like to say that the SDS Club is at your disposal for the adoption of this law tomorrow at 1400 hours. So, after the debate at the National Assembly and that we are at all times ready to come to this law. Of course, I don't need to be the attitude that I am about the law itself, which I've made many times, because this isn't about the law, this is about procedures, and that's why our position as far as the law itself is concerned has remained unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10428	I thank my colleague Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is exhausted as far as the agenda is concerned. I beg you, is there anyone else who needs to answer for your word? Mrs. Đurković Jelina, please. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10429	Of course, I will not repeat what I have already said, I will not repeat the reasons that I made in the previous announcement and, of course, I remain in what I said, and I remain in that when the debate begins, that I will leave the Assembly and again express my regret that the chairman of the day before the RS Assembly has scheduled this assembly. I absolutely don't stand, so I stand behind the law, that the PDP law supports, but unfortunately in this way I'm not ready to take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10430	I thank Mrs. Đurković. Dr. Nijaz Duraković picked up the phone. I beg you this session is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure called so, the College has decided. You were notified at the last session, no one announced the possibility of what the findings were and what anyone was doing, which I am less interested in. So we have to stick to the strict Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Dr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10431	I am, of course, in favour of the Rules of Procedure, and from the beginning, I have been in favour of going directly into the debate, not of allowing this kind of farce from this House, and I would not have come forward if the gentlemen had not now given us cheap explanations about this, which this Parliament is holding in one very miserable situation since the morning is whether. I would say that these old times are repeated, and I remember them, even though the SDS is in a love hug with two national parties, it still changes the hair, but not at all. They're still blackmailing this parliament. I would say that it is a false demagogy that wants one blow from two rabbits whether, to the people of RS, it is to show that they only fight for all Serbia and for the famous RS army, and to the international community and to this parliament that they are the only true legalists and legitimateists who await tomorrow's parliament's decision is whether the Assembly. And of course they get Ivanić and his Camelot party and this threat of a lady or a lady leaving this parliament is really a bit degutant, so have her a happy trip. But Minister Ivanić, who supported the law on the Council of Ministers, still gives the directive to obstruct him for the same political reasons that I cited his MPs. To say it loud and clear here once and don't make fools of us here. There's no need for charity here, especially not from the SDS. Now, they're ready to vote tomorrow, but let's wait till after 2:00 tomorrow. Why should this parliament wait there at all, whether the employees of the SDS have sworn an oath to this parliament or to Kalinic's parliament, and what is the first or Parliament of the BiH state, or whether it is an entity parliament, and how do I not know that obligation at all, especially when we have established that this item of the agenda is a business obligation and that nothing is disputed. WellBog my Lords, if you have so much courage, go public, tell me what it is. Don't keep us here as some kind of hostage to your complementary policy. It's your turn to make it clear here that, if you're no longer stalling, you're not obstructing and that you're forgiving us here present ladies politically do not... The big rabbit I said 19 needs to be forced to really clean 'cause the hunters who shoot precisely, I hope there's still one in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10432	I thank Dr. Duraković. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10433	gospodin Špirić's chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10434	Ladies and gentlemen, I think when it comes to reform, then things need to end like this. If BiH's public has been persistently served the story that there has been a painful compromise and that it has been promoted to the public of BiH. And if someone comes in today and says it's not that compromise, it's only tomorrow, and it's not today, it's called hypocrisy. I belong to that political party that wants to discuss reforms and adopt reform laws, but you ladies and gentlemen here must be aware of what this means today. What this means today for the state parliament and what this means for the public of BiH, which is said daily to be the parliamentary majority in reform laws. Is there, that's what we pointed to at the beginning. So I apologize to those who stayed here and who wanted to work essentially. I think today's session can last. We're ready to work on the law. We ask you to discuss the amendments, to go out to meet each other, which doesn't change the essence, we get to the law. We have one, therefore, only one amendment that if adopted here, we will uphold the law. So, we will support the law if an amendment is adopted that according to the same principle, and if someone explains to me that these are not European standards, NATO standards, peace partnerships, I will give up the amendment. That by the number of soldiers, then, 8 plus 4,000, that number is filled by professionals without recruiting. Why does it matter to this country? Because she came right out of the war. Because this country's youth has been overcome, because professionals have to do the job for reasons and encounter different forms of terrorism. Well, we have a warning last night that it's possible that some things can happen in BiH that smell like it, so isn't it better that professionals, well-trained people from all constituent peoples, are faced with it, rather than 18 years of age? If there is a willingness to accept that amendment, we will vote in favour of the law. So it's a more radical step in reform than what is offered. And so please, if we're ready today, we're ready, at least I'm ready, regardless of the circumstances and the party I belong to, to support that law, because that law needs it. I think that would be a real contribution, but then let's know that we send these colleagues a message that they can't bring us to the edge of the spring, and then say that they were joking about the state and the reforms. If there's a mood, ladies and gentlemen, we're staying here to do this job today. If we need a crawl, we'll sit down. We're ready to take that break. Thank you very much. 20 ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I suggest that, therefore, the agenda, no voting on the agenda. So the agenda is, I figure we have four points of the agenda, that's one. Proposal for a law on defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act, first reading, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, first reading, and the fourth item of the agenda is 4. Appointment, confirmation of the name Obusmen on a proposal from the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's ad.1. The proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second reading I am opening, ladies and gentlemen, the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was adopted in our first reading at last session, November 20th of the current year. Amendments to the bill they wish to defend in the plenary phase were submitted by MPs; Momčilo Novaković, Tihomir Gligorić, SNSD MPs' assembly, Mr Martin Raguž, Ljiljana Milićević submitted 12 amendments but out of business opportunities, so we must decide what to do with these amendments and Momčilo Novaković submitted 3 amendments by calling for Article 94 point 3a). As you can see, we have a lot of amendments. I would also like to remind you that the Proposal of the Defense Act
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10435	Do they have my amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10436	Moranjkić, they have his amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10437	To me here, just a little please don't have them here, Mr. Moranjkić, I don't have them registered by the service.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10438	They have, they have his amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10439	Okay, I'm not arguing, so it won't be a problem about the amendment. I would also like to remind you that the proposal for a defence law has also been discussed by the Commission for Gender Equality in BiH. By calling for Article 43, paragraph 1 d) and the team to adopt the conclusions that you have received. So I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Seada Palavrić answered the words, so Mr. Gligorić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10440	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me say on behalf of the SDA Club that our club is ready to support the law as proposed by the Defence System Reform Commission, along with amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, by one of the amendments being brought down by Mr Novaković, from this report. This is Amendments II and III. From the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, therefore, we are ready to accept Mr Novaković's amendment and are ready to accept two more amendments from Mr Novaković to Article 12 and Article 14. Other amendments are unacceptable for the SDA Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10441	Thank you, colleague Palavrić. I must inform Mr. Moranjkić that he has not submitted amendments to the amendments within the business period. The amendments were discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, not accepted by the business obligation to renew these amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, but that's what I'm told in the service.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10442	He didn't come out for the pay phone. I'm saying I did, and here they are, and ask the secretary if I said...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10443	Here's the secretary at home for an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10444	I apologize to Parliamentarian Moranjkić, your amendments were on 18.11. And we talked about it since he was wrongly called to a member of the Rules of Procedure that is point 90 of Article 94, point 2, which means that he is again defending at the plenary stage. I have made these amendments in accordance with your agreement to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. After that, I did not have a renewed appointment, should he wear a date or 19 when the report was submitted, or possibly 18 when the report was distributed to the MPs of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10445	I thank you, Mr. Moranjkić came forward for his word, but it's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10446	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know what's going on in this House. There are secrets and public work in this House. Legally, illegally, and somehow, I can't call a third. I made the amendments, and when I saw them hiding, I referred them to the 94th position, here's 2 that says the amendments are to the amendments. I talked to Mrs. Branka and I said, please, if there's any disagreement and if any of the amendments are going to go over, please let them know how I wrote this and change the law. That was the deal. I stayed on it, and then someone said yes, and then he kept quiet to put in the car of that 22 amendment. I believe that this really is a dissuasion and MPs and one really is not a proper relationship with the MPs and shows up with their opinions to engage in Parliament's work. If that's the case, then we'll start inventing hiducia in this House, and that's what we'll do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10447	I thank my colleague, Moranjkić, here's Branka. He wants to explain again. I'm asking you to be clear. There's no one whose amendment to forget. You can't see, Mr. Moranjkić, you have to repeat. So, a business amendment to the amendment not to tell the service to do it to you. You understand, okay, now we'll see what the service says. I have no reason to be real
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10448	I really don't have a reason either, I'm working very objectively, and I want to do it again next. The Commission submitted a report on the Defence Act 19. 11. Your amendments were received from us on 18.11. And I immediately referred them to the agreement I made with you to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Please, the amendments have not been renewed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. They had to wear a new date or 19 or 20. I really have no reason for one MP to be accepted by one amendment and the other not to accept. These amendments, which were passed by by the chairman, arrived within a certain period in parliamentary procedure. I really have no reason to do anything else, so I don't, so I might hurt some MPs in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10449	Thank you, Mrs. Branka. Who's next to the word? Yes, Mr. Gligorić answered, then Kragulj, then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10450	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the Defence and General Defence Reform Act, then both the Commission and everyone who worked on this has put a lot of work into it. In this opening part, I just want to say that many people in the public opinion that they have done a lot of things, praised themselves with a well done job, and then today this maneuver, practically from the SDS, is surprising, because if we talk about their leaders and at the same time the president of the RS who spoke about being behind the work of the Commission, that nothing needs to be changed, that solutions are correct and consensual, then today it is certainly a surprise and it is only one political maneuver due to the National Assembly being held tomorrow. I believe that a parliamentary procedure should be implemented in a professional and correct way. And there's no need for anyone to be angry at anyone if someone votes yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a parliamentary procedure. This is ours to say politically but first and foremost one correct professional professional struggle, where, based on procedures, arguments or amendments, we need to amend a certain law. 23 So they should have stayed until the end of the story and pleaded negatively against it and ended the story. And no, they'd leave something to live on for a while, and then they'd come back to vote on it again, buy some affection with the citizens, and at the same time prepare what they thought. That's why I think that this complete maneuver is unnecessary, but that they should have pleaded, if they have any further knowledge that something is not good, accept it. I was saying that the principles of this law are not good. I was saying that the Socialist Party is for a partnership for peace, it is for Euro-Atlantic integration, it is for NATO. But at the same time, this does not mean that the law, or reform, also offers good legal solutions. And we as parliamentarians need to say that here. For that, we stand up for it and there is no problem, unless a certain agreement is reached. Here, I'm up for it, committed, and I filed two amendments to the law. It's on Article 2 which speaks of the composition of the armed forces, where they speak of the Federation's armed forces. The BiH and HVO armies have been established under the law since 96. And the RS army organized etc. I therefore suggested that or be the same treatment, that the RS army be based on the law, because on finding out how it is formulated that it can be organised illegally and legally and tomorrow in the interpretation, and I know what we are in BiH will be interpreted as the RS military's paramilitary formation. And that is why I would ask you as Members to support this amendment. I think BiH should be comfortable and comfortable for everyone, and that the same treatment should be given. Why, say, the BiH Army and the HVO have a historical dimension without the RS military having one. Therefore, if we want honest relations, if we want to make a political point of consensus and will to solve things, then I think it would be a good idea to support it. The second amendment, I have invested on a member of 47 who speaks about the armed forces or that it consists of professional soldiers and professional military personnel. I proposed as my amendment. In addition to professional staff, it says in article 47 that we are going to the reserve, to be recruited, or to serve a military term. Let's talk like humans, honestly. If this military service is not NATO's standard, if NATO's political goal is to have a professional army, why should we as a reform where military service will take practically 4 months. What does that mean for BiH that has no money. That it's expensive. Why don't we put 400 million into new jobs and business? Why do we have a situation today that our recruits, every five days on the weekends, go home and carry bags to wash them there, ask for money while they're there for two days or by the time they get back, it's a burden for their parents. And if we want this bill to be supported by citizens and the public, to get the support of parents and their children, young people, why don't we say that's not NATO standard. And that is then the political will, which in BiH, because I spoke to Mr. Džaferović on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. He believes that through the recruiting system, Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia need to mate through many numbers. What it means is mating. Paring means using guns tomorrow. Which means a single militarist consciousness in BiH. And what does it mean if we remind ourselves of the former Yugoslavia when, according to the Constitution and by law and internationally recognised country, the Muslim youth at the time and Croatian did not want to go to military service. Then, politically, they were clear messages. We cannot be in the Yugoslav People's Army because it is numerous and is made up of Srbin. And then, at the same time, BiH is monitored through the recruiting system and a professional army of numerous Bosniak populations. There's no need for that. Let me tell you, if you really want to make a professional army in BiH. There's no need for a military service. Let our children learn computers, let them go something else, and a professional is always better than 2,000 recruits tomorrow and these innocent children, which in four months you can't make a professional soldier. And why if it's not NATO's standard, then when we get inside BiH, whose standard it is. I have a feeling about the SDA. If the SDA is the leader in BiH, where in this assembly SDS and HDZ will comply, then that's your problem. Come out and say it clearly. If you don't need it, if it's our domestic matter and will, why don't you have the courage to resist the SDA and maybe militarist politics, if there's any intention of leading it. If Serbia-Montenegro and Croatia will join the partnership for peace and NATO and will, what we need to paralyze Serbia-Montenegro and Croatia, if we will be protected under that umbrella in NATO. The chiefs of these three tribes will no longer be allowed to fight each other and kill each other for the bill of politics. It won't be gentlemen. I am offering you one correct solution in this amendment, to support it, I think that all the political goals of programming that you have within the parties, on this finding we will measure and we will come up with a good solution. Therefore, if you support the amendments, and I find them very correct, we can improve the Defence Act, and we can come up with good solutions to that finding. If you don't accept it, if it's already agreed somewhere past this Parliament, that it has to be so, that not a single point can change, I have such principles that can be a call of dissension tomorrow, as an MP, I can't support it, I have the right to do so. And that's why I wish that the MPs of the SDS were here, and that they would say their opinion practically and clearly and responsibly in front of the public. Here, when we spoke about it, it should be made clear that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should give its opinion, because the legal public did not support this work that we are doing today. Why? Because you cannot make the Constitution lower as the RS commits a higher act such as the BiH Constitution that it will, as this one, be acted on. So that's one precedent absolutely, and that's why if we're talking about the rule of law, we're talking about the rule of law. If we create this, that legal system we absolutely don't have. If we, we create a legal order that is above the legal system built-in life, then my dear gentlemen, we are on a bad path. We all do a bad job together. So I'd like to ask you to consider practically this humble contribution of mine, how it should be done. If there is any political will, we can get to practically that law. Otherwise, I ask you that when you have this in mind, you also make sure that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not broken, because today in that previous part it was prevailing and certainly when we talk about relations with entities, the obligation of the Constitution of BiH to coordinate practically with them, it should be kept in mind. Not with the position of politics, that someone says we shouldn't talk and respect someone else, but because of the harmony that we need to make good laws. 25 And I end up this way, that the difficult decisions we need to make, we should have the courage for them, but we should also have the support of the public. And please ask if anyone in BiH, whether this parliament or anyone in this country will finally ask for any important opinion from our citizens. They went from country to country to third country. No Niko asked them anything. Along the way, he killed and burned and scattered all over the world. Today, we are talking again about reforms in favour of citizens, without citizens being able to plead. When we draw the line in BiH and in other normal countries, we ask our own builders, where our peoples are full of mouths when we talk about citizens. And when we have to ask them something, that's not what we do. We can learn from the information funds that are here. When they make any kind, they do a phone poll and we get certain citizens' opinions on any and ever smaller issue. Why doesn't Parliament do this and see if we have support for this work or if we have separated from the people long ago and abused ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10451	I thank Mr Gligorić for the replica Mr. Džaferović answered, and here will be an opportunity. So we are the people who are chosen by the people and should decide, make the laws. I don't argue that other principles can be applied. Mr. Džaferović spoke for the replica, but I would like to ask, I apologize to my colleague Džaferović if we can create space today to adopt this law. Maybe the herbs would be if the club presidents would sit down and bring attitudes where, if the goal was to pass the law. If the goal is to work all day, not to pass the law, we're not on the right track. I'm more prepared if the club presidents are to sit down with each other to make amendments, make arguments for and against, and try to get to that. And here I don't argue that there's still talk if there are any reports. There is a gentleman, so Mr. Džaferović's replica, so Kragulj, so Belkić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10452	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here's the answer to you right now, as far as the SDA Club is concerned, you've heard the president of the club. So there's no need to have any conversations or negotiations. The SDA will support the law as therefore proposed by the Council of Ministers, with the respect of the three amendments spoken by Mrs Palavrić, and this is a definitive position of the SDA, which is actually going to meet with that election text adopted by the Defence Reform Commission. I didn't come out for that, of course, and I took the opportunity to give an answer on behalf of the SDA Club whether, and on this proposal you came out I wasn't happy to tell you. I have no intention of leading the controversy with Mr. Gligorić, but Mr. Gligorićje mentioned my last name here and it's something that I said, so I think it's my turn to say what I said. This is not a controversy with Mr Gligorić but I would like, therefore, to inform all of you, that I was on the Constitutional-Law Commission and that I, at the proposal by Mr Gligorić, was on the removal of the recruiting or military term in BiH, said that aneks I ib) of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which speaks of the balance of military effects throughout the region, so not only in BiH, and that the abolition of the recruitment deadline in BiH is leading to the gradual demilitarisation of BiH. The demilitarisation of BiH without demilitarisation of the region is not acceptable to me and is not 26 acceptable to the SDA. So that's what I said and that's what I want to tell you here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10453	I thank my colleague Džaferović, Mr Nikola Kragulj called for the river.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10454	Gentlemen, the chairman, dear colleagues, I spoke in general last time and pointed to certain remarks from the point of view of our club of MPs here in Parliament, and now I want to say the following. I'm gone, and our club doesn't oblige the text agreed by the majority of the congregation to support it in that form. But under certain conditions, if certain remarks we have made through amendments to this law are accepted, we want to participate actively and support the law. You've got the amendments to our club, they're mostly on the line of what Mr. Gligorić used to say before me. I am prepared or, our club is ready for representatives of the clubs here, if we can today track down what Mr Špirić said, we are sitting down and if we can agree on the acceptability of certain amendments, to really give support to this law. I think first of all from those amendments that we have submitted here, that out of the 15 total amendments, only 5 for us is a maximum of 5 practically essentials, of which we cannot act without being able to uphold the law. These are amendments VII, IX, X, XI and XII which are interventions to Articles 39, 47, 48, 49, and 50, and the essence of these amendments is to abolish recruitment and abolish regular military service. We are in favour of keeping the army in BiH professional, we are for it to have a permanent composition of professional normal reserve composition as much as it must be to fill in, filled in, armed forces of BiH at certain times. But we are against it for known reasons, we are for the principle of fully clear jurisdiction, rationality and professionalism and those solutions that will contribute more quickly to the establishment of trust in the entire BiH area, which will be far cheaper than is foreseen here by this legislative project. And precisely for the reason that those funds that are being allocated to this area today could, in part, shift to support development and to faster employment of the younger generation. I think that all of us, we agree that surely this condition, set by the SNSD Club, is not a condition that BiH could co-operate with NATO, so that it can join a partnership for peace, so that it can join into integration with Europe etc. And to meet those standards required on that plan. I think those other amendments should, I don't particularly want to explain them, because they can clearly read this, they're completely clear. So these are the impact amendments I've highlighted. These other amendments are mainly designed to improve the technical text, to specify certain powers and competencies and to remove possible dilemmas that may have a negative impact on BiH citizens. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10455	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10456	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat what I did at the beginning of this morning to say that the debate said that the Party of BiH MPs' Club would support the law in the text in which amendments were incorporated agreed on the Constitutional-Pave Commission. I want a brief comment on the two kinds of amendments we're talking about here today. For us, the amendments are related to various versions of the technical question, and we really expected that one of the promoters would do well to come out for this pay phone, so we explained what it was about. Of course, that's missing. People sit around like it's none of their business. That's one thing. So for us are amendments that concern versions of different technical issues. We support the original text of the Commission Report. It is for us a version that is correct, but that is what the legislators should say and explain to these MPs what this is about. When it comes to the amendments relating to recruits, we understand that this is a thing that is in extreme good. We understand that this is one process, but we also appreciate that there are certain agreements in this region concerning countries of the region, which are concerned with the control of military capacities etc. and we will absolutely at some stage support this process of bringing the military down to professional compositions, but at this point I say we will remain on the text of the laws in which the incorporated amendments are agreed on the Constitutional-Pave Commission, where we have participated, and our people, as I said this morning, participated in the Council of Ministers, when it comes to this project. And to take this opportunity and tell the BiH Party is not satisfied with this project, is not what we thought. We don't think there's any constitutional-legal basis, unlike those who think it's our right. We think the defence is BiH's constitutional jurisdiction, but here it is. We are not satisfied with some solutions, we expected the result of this legal project to be an army, that entities would be completely dissipated when it comes to defence, etc. But things didn't happen. Then we see this as one process and we will support it today as I have said. However, I call once again, this time calling on the promoter to come out for this pay phone and speak at least three sentences about a project that is in front of MPs. At least three sentences, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10457	I thank my colleague, Belkić, for his word, Mr Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10458	Dear colleagues and colleagues, discussing the proposal for this law at the last session of this house, we expressed our position on this proposal and then we said that we were not satisfied with either the breadth or the depth of the defence reforms. 28 However, starting with this being a significant step in defence reform. Respecting the fact that it has been accepted by the competent Commission of our five amendments, and particularly pleased with the fact that there is one provision in the law that obliges the BiH authorities and the competent entity authorities, that in the coming time, all activities in the area of defence reform that BiH will bring closer to the partnership, i.e. NATO PAKTU. I declare that our deputies will support today's bill of law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10459	I thank my colleague Križanović, who continues to answer the word? Mr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10460	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, given that we are in the process of having a debate in the second reading and we come to a vase when we are going to vote on certain amendments, and that the views I see here are quite and diametrically opposed, I suggest that, as we did in the Law on Conflict of Interest, we give the commission stage some time to agree that Mr. Moranjkić also has to enter the amendment, and that a session is scheduled on Monday. I want you to put this motion to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10461	I thank Dr. Živković. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10462	Mr. Špirić, I'm sorry, Martina, I took some work from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10463	Ladies and gentlemen, I have, therefore, said what I think would be good to improve in this law so that we could get one law that could withstand a trial of time. I think this is what colleagues have been talking about, that the balance of power in the region in terms of military effects is not achieved by recruiting. So, it's not even indirectly achieved, it's here that respects the principle of 8,000 plus 4,000 professionals. So it's the entity's task that professionals go into the armed forces and be a pillar of internal security and come on external security. If someone thinks recruiting is going to balance or balance, I don't think that's an argument for me. And that's why I suggested if we were really, if we weren't all really sitting down for some of our buses, so we were obviously somewhere long ago, but I'm proposing, so I'm asking for a break on behalf of the SNSD Club for half an hour, for the club presidents to sit down, to see if there's any chance of moving each other to adopt the law. If someone just wants this to be a physical vote, we'll get to it easily, but let's take every chance to see if we can get to the law. 29 So, here on behalf of the Club, since there are no debaters reported, I ask for a half-hour break, and I would ask the presidents, the chair of the clubs, to sit together, if we don’t come to any further, how are we going to end this. And I agree with this to put Mr. Živković to the vote, but after that. Thank you very much, so take a half-hour break and please the presidents of the clubs, okay? _______: I don't want to take a break. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] I don't care if he doesn't, it doesn't matter. And if I can ask for a break, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10465	The law of the SNSD is to seek a break. And let him take a break but I, as president of the SDA Club, don't need to go to a club chief meeting because we analyzed the amendments through the commission phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10466	You don't have to come to a club session, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10467	Nikola when she's together here at half past three.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10468	And get on with our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10469	Chairman Špirić, he asked for a break, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10470	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have held a meeting of Members' clubs in the break and that we have discussed amendments, and in this sense we have discussed that the SNSD as a proposing is ready to withdraw all its amendments, except for the amendment requiring the abolition of recruitment, so professional and reserve composition, and in this regard we have offered that the transitional period be two years. So until a professional military composition is created, then, to set a two-year deadline as a transitional period. In my feeling, and of course the presidents of the clubs will say their position now what they think, it did not come across a refusal it seemed to me that there was a predominant mood, that this amendment would be accepted except for the SDA's stance. So please once again if we want to do so today, we withdraw all other amendments, if we want to get to the law today, we are prepared to support such a law with the abolition of the recruitment of a transitional period of 30 to 2 years, which is not in collegiate with NATO standards, which is not in collegiate with the Partnership for Peace, we would then vote in favour of the law and today BiH would come to this legal solution. So I just wanted to let you know that you know what we were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10471	Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10472	I must say, on behalf of the SDA Club, that this amendment cannot be supported by us. We are prepared to discuss this when we meet all the conditions for NATO, so when we have both the single army and all the standards needed for NATO. Not today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10473	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. We have concluded, Mr. Sead Avdić, here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10474	My koleginica Members and fellow Members, honored guests, I would like to propose a methodological fact that has been bypassed in this session of ours. Here are the people who have been harassing the basic text of the Defense Act for months. People who have come to a solution for days and months along with foreign experts, and we have not honored and offered to give these people, to simply respond to these contradictions that stand before this House of Representatives. That's why I'm allowing myself freedom, to simply really invite three Secretary-Generals of the Military Committee, both Generals so Bečirbašić and Sokanović and counterpart Pocrnje to simply say that we have come to this law and whether something can be changed in it and in what way. I support how not to Mr. Belkić and the others. It would be necessary to silence these people who are simply the key subjects to creating the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10475	I thank Dr. Avdić. Please, I guess we just have to run a little bit, I guess we know how the law came down. Who can tell this House how the law is changed and whether the law can be changed to Bogo's godfather. I don't mind that people who have worked if they ask for the word of the same second will get it, but don't think if people follow the debate and think they should or shouldn't, they appreciate it. And we all know how there was a compromise and a bill, and I guess we know how it can be changed and what can be changed. Here I am asking if the professional army is in line with NATO standards and partnership for peace. So if it's not NATO standard, I'll withdraw the amendment. So, I just wanted to ask ourselves if we're going to change, whether we're going to approach attitudes or not, and not someone from the Standing Military Committee. Here's Sead Palavrić, he's got a word. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10476	Business intervention, I have information that the proposing representatives insist on asking for a word that the chairman does not allow them. Secondly, it is not NATO's standard that there is no recruitment and military deadline, as Slovenia has been admitted to NATO and still has recruitment and military service.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10477	I thank you, if anyone, I really don't deny anyone, here's the first time I've seen him come forward, here you go. So, right now, not that the chairman doesn't allow it, but he has to answer. Well, I don't know what kind of information you have, but they must be here by raising their hands and not by giving them information.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word. It's about what I offered you at the break to answer, you said there was no need and in that sense this fact stands. So, I am really honored to say a few sentences and words about this work as a member of the Commission. Unfortunately, I cannot say that I am in the role of the promoter because I am not officially, because it is the Council of Ministers, but I was sitting at a Council of Ministers meeting when it established the text of this draft law and proposed it to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. Unfortunately, because of these details, we had a small technical problem in contrast with the Serbian version of the bill's proposal, one sentence remained longer than it was in these two variants, and I want to believe that it was technically a mistake. Because we had in some previous version and that. So that extended sentence in the article, I think it's the 8th one, but later, during the work of the Commission, it means, it's been erased and it was considered too high. You know that the Commission was embodied by the High Representative's decision in April and that it worked over four and a half months on this reform business. You know what the members of the Commission were, and you know, I believe you've all had a chance to look at this document. The law on defence that we have offered is indeed a set of compromise solutions that we have sought during, agreed during the work on this Bill proposal and probably not a single member of the Commission, it is not this report, or the bill is not further. All of us, in a certain sense, had to give up certain of our ambitions to call it that, or our intention to provide through this law. It's on one side, and that's why you'll probably notice that the very content of the law to the provisions that we've offered doesn't look very much like the usual laws. That's what I'm saying is the result of the compromise. That's one thing. The second thing, we had at the beginning some timing in relation to the creation of the law and we had not already entered the report but we created some 32 things for ourselves and for the recent and slightly further future, which could serve this bill as a good basis. This time, ambition was to provide a law that would introduce BiH into a partnership for peace. So the part that applies first and foremost to the security of full command and control at the state level, and that's what we got from Brussels to confirm that this bill has been reached. As far as recruiting is concerned, we also had a debate on the subject on the Commission. So there were suggestions and such to either execute some kind of so-called moratorium on serving a military term for a period of two years, or to end a military term. Of course, I wouldn't want to bid now who was in favour, who wasn't in favour and how perhaps in the meantime there was a kind of transformation of thinking, but then we compromised the solution that this was not going to be abolished, that it remained that the armed forces were composed of a professional recruiting and reserve composition, with the report recommending it is not a legal solution, but a recommendation to recruiting by 50%. So if we had 20,000 recruits, that after the law was passed, that contingent would be reduced to 10,000. That's one recommendation. Another recommendation, which entered as well as a legal solution in the entity laws of defence, is that the length of military service would be 4 instead of 6 months. And that is the compromise solution that we have offered in this report. I am afraid that by opening this issue of recruitment we will not be this one, slowing down this law-making process and I personally do not know how much I have the right to suggest, I would like not to open the package that we have offered, because it is as a whole accepted both by Brisel and by all relevant political leaders and parties who had their representatives in the work of the Commission. We now have half four, we have a meeting with Lord Robertson, NATO Secretary-General, first with the Permanent Presidency, as a permanent komitet, and he will also come to Parliament in 20 to 5 will also address parliamentarians. I hope that most of you will be present and I wish that parliamentarians could pass on to him to him to say these optimistic, intentions or results of their work. So I repeat again. I see you care about this question. We've been discussing this recruiting issue for months. We did not go on a working move, but the Defence Act alone left the possibility of opening the issue relatively quickly, as the BiH presidency as the Supreme Command left the possibility that it would propose the structure of the armed forces whenever it wanted in the coming period and that it would ensure that this structure was changed, etc. So there's nothing nailed. This was left to draft the law was made so that it really provides the possibility of all creations in the next period and improvements. And in the end, the way he is, he will surely have to undergo a certain transformation in a year. We in law there have made some recommendations to move on to reforms, to become a credible candidate for NATO in 2007, and we have political agreement on such a variant. Joining NATO means continuing reforms in the area of defence, and this law on defence that we are now adopting will likely be at the end of the past. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10479	Thank you, I would only pray that you know that the word is not required in the session, but during the session. Niko of me ever got a word in the break. Mr. Potočnik picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10480	Dear chairman, respected colleagues, If we accept that soldiers cannot be recruited in BiH, then we will be in a position that in two years' time, since they have dual citizenship, Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens will be recruited either in the Serbian or Croatian military. No one can mobilize them if they want to. Exactly if they want to, no one can make them. Therefore, I propose that this Parliament adopt the law as it is harmonised, and that, over a certain period of time, we do an analysis and see what needs are needed for a new one, not to go now with partial amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10482	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, if we've exhausted the debate, if no one comes forward, we'll interfere with the amendment. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10483	Thank you, I wanted to take this, for the first time here for the duration of our work today, on behalf of the HDZ Club, and say a few of our thoughts about it. There were many breaks, and here first I will look back at my predecessor's speech, what he said is not true, but it's not the subject of our law. The HDZ Club will support the law if there is the political will of other clubs and other MPs in this House, in this House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the form and form that we have obtained from the Commission. So, what is the basic law and those amendments which, according to the Commission's minutes or conclusions, came to us from the Commission's report. What our club can accept by the amendment it has made here, Mr Špirić, is that we accept the amendment on recruitment is whether what it's called about recruiting a new recruit with a transitional period as agreed on whether he stayed in this parliament, but that's not a condition. We don't have any conditions, however, we had two amendments that we delivered after this procedure on the Commission. We deliver here, we both give up if there's a readiness in this law-making home. So that's where we want to pass the law. We are not conditioned to accept Mr Špirić's amendment. So, in both cases, we are in favour of, to pass this law, this very important reform law in BiH and everything this law opens. 34 So, in the end, if there really is no or if there is any fence with other MPs I would not like to avoid this opportunity in fact, I would be very sorry if today, by arguing against some MPs, to dispute the adoption of such an important law, but rather I would be closer to those who have thought about it and this is mentioned to me by fellow Živković here from the present, that this should be delayed for several hours or a few days, just to not lose this one, an opportunity to pass this law. I underline, the HDZ Club is absolutely for the adoption of this law in its original form. as we have received from the Commission's report, but it is not unacceptable for us and what Mr Špirić has proposed, so the HDZ Club is also acceptable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10484	I thank my colleague Zorić. Mr. Belkić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10485	Of course, with the danger of being repeated, that's why I'll cut it short. We stay at what I said on two occasions. So we will vote in favour of the law according to the report, so with amendments agreed on by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I would like to express my regret that one of the promoters did not leave sooner. A lot of things would go easier, you know, go easier. Here's after this explanation from the man who was in the Commission some things are clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10486	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Who's still answering for your word? Mr Ibrahim Đedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10487	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I only want to come up with one proposal from which we can see if it's the fear of another or the desire to deceive another, or the desire to approach is sincere. We heard two things here. Dispute means whether recruiting goes or doesn't go or goes delayed for two years. And another piece of information that says, we're ready for that when we join NATO. And then we hear we're planning to go there in 2007 and this is 2006. Let's let the amendment go in a way that ends the recruitment process by joining NATO. By entering NATO, if it's three years from now, three years from now, if we're honest, we're gonna adopt it, if we're not honest, we're gonna lie, and we're gonna make another one of those yelling, he's the reason, he's yelling that reason. If we're honest let's do it that way, vote and go our separate ways. If we don't stop this and wait for the environment to pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10488	Thank you. Who's on the phone for the word? Nobody's answering. 35 I'm closing the hearing, ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the debate. We're going to make a statement on the amendments. It's the only way we can go. We have Mr. Nikola Kragulj's amendments. First I ask the amendment's proposing whether anyone's giving up the amendment? So we're going to the amendment number and Mr. Kragulj. Who's up for that?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10489	Živković tretches the word
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10490	Živković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10491	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would only ask the Chairman to strictly stick to Rule 96, which says that the second reading consists of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments following the order of members to which they relate. And I also think that the position of 2 of this same member means that if there is a greater modification of a member, it should be voted on first. Here we already have from Mr. Martin Raguž to Article 2 that goes in order, as the first major modification of that article, and I think it's the only correct way to vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10492	I thank Mr. Živković. The replica was answered by Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10493	So you see this, our club said a position around the amendment. So we're ready if we stick to the original text to give up the amendment, and I don't know why our amendments would go to the vote first and they're not set up like that either. So I think it's correct even to be last, because I don't insist on them being in the process if we stick to the package. I think it's perfectly correct and that's how things have been set up since the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10494	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. We'll express ourselves on all amendments. I ask you very hard to agree now on the amendments to one member, who is on the other, who is on the eighth but on all amendments, therefore, it is the right for the MPs to read the amendments and vote. Let's go, then, to amendment number and Mr. Kragulj. Who's for amendment number I? Who's against Amendment number I? 36 Are there any abstentions? No thanks. Give me the results. So please, from 31 to 6, versus 22, abstention 3. I find that the amendment and Mr. Kragulj has not been adopted. We're moving on to Amendment II. Who's in favour of adopting amendment number II of Mr. Kragulj? Who's against it? Abstained? Who didn't vote? Who's being held back? Okay, so from 31 present, 8 for, 20 against, 3 abstentions. I find Amendment II not accepted. Coming through, who's in favor of adopting Amendment number III? Who's against Amendment III? Who's being held back? Come on, please, hurry up with those collections. So, of the 31 who voted, 6 for, versus 23, abstention 1. Therefore, Amendment III has not been adopted. Who's in favour of adopting Amendment IV? Who's against Amendment IV? Who's being held back? So of the 31 present, 9 for, 20 v, 1 abstention. I find Amendment IV not accepted. Coming through, who's in favor of accepting Amendment V? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Of the 31 present, 6 for, against 21, abstention 4. I also konstatuj that Amendment V has not been adopted. Who's in favour of adopting amendment number VI? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So out of 31 present, 7 for, versus 21, 2 abstentions. I also find Amendment VI not accepted. We're moving on to Amendment VII. Who's to accept amendment number VII? Who's against it? Abstained? Who is it? Abstained? So of 31 present 6 for, 22 v, 1 abstention. 37 I find Amendment VII not accepted. Who's in favour of accepting Amendment number VIII? Who's against that amendment? Who's being held back? Out of 31 present, 8 for, versus 22, 1 abstention. I also find Amendment VIII not accepted. Who's in favor of accepting amendment number IX? Who's against it? Abstained? So, of the 32 present, it voted for 8, versus 23, abstention 1. I find Amendment number IX not accepted. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number X of Mr. Kragulj? Who's against it? Abstained? So of 32 present, 7 for, versus 22, abstention 2. I find Amendment X not accepted. Who's in favor of accepting amendment number XI? Who's against it? Abstained? So from 32 present, 7 for, 22 v, 2 abstentions. I find Amendment XI not accepted. Who's to accept amendment number XII? Who's against it? Who's being held back? From 32.7 in, 23 against, 2 abstentions. I find Amendment XII not accepted. Who's to accept amendment number XIII of Mr. Nikola Kragulj? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? Of the 32 present, 6 for, 22 against and 3 abstained. Neither has this amendment. We're moving on to Amendment XIV. Who's to accept Amendment XIV? Who's against it? Just a little quiet, we plead. Who's being held back? Of the 32 present, therefore, the vote was 6.21 against and 3 abstentions. 38 I find that this amendment has not been accepted either. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number XV of Mr. Kragulj? Who's against it? May I have your attention, please? Who's against it? Put your hands up? Who's being held back? So of 32 present, 6 for, 22 v, 4 abstentions. I find Amendment XV not accepted. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number XVI of Mr. Kragulj? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of 32 present, 6 for 22 versus and 2 abstentions. I find Amendment XVI to Mr. Kragulj is not accepted. We move on to a statement on Mr Gligorić's amendments. He has two amendments. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number and Mr. Gligorić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of 32 present, 6 for, 23 against, abstention 3.. I konstatovati Amendment number I not accepted. We move on to Amendment number II. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number II of Mr. Gligorić? Who's against it? Please don't throw away. Who's being held back? So of 32 present, 8 for, 23 v, 1 abstention. I find Amendment II to Mr Gligorić has not been caught. We're moving on to Mr. Martin Raguž's amendment. Martin Raguž is withdrawing the amendments. I thank Mr. Raguž. We're moving on to amendment number and Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10495	What amendment is that? It's an amendment to the amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10496	Yes, yes, an amendment to Article 14. The defense law is deleted and the text is returned to the original text. It's an amendment to the amendment. Who's in favour of accepting Mr. Novaković's amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10497	We said we were in and we should be in. That's what the SDA said. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10498	Who's against it? Who's being held back? So 32, 12 for, 12 against, 6 abstentions. He didn't get most of this amendment. We're moving on to the amendments now. Please, we have amendments here, Mrs Milićević, which have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and cannot be declared. We're moving on to Mr. Novaković's amendments. That is Amendment I, II and III. They're supplemental amendments. Who's to accept amendment number I of Mr. Novaković? Who's in favour of accepting this amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? There is no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted, no vote has been received. We're moving on to Amendment II. I ask you to understand how this amendment went, and since there were no votes to keep us from wasting our time. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number II of Mr. Novaković? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please report. So of 32 present, 14 for, versus 13, abstention 1. He's got most of it. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? Four for, so there's no majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10499	Shall we agree,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10500	Wait, there's no entity majority
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10501	It doesn't matter what doesn't, we agree on when there's no entity, we want to agree that we have that, I agree to accept this amendment. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10502	I agree, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10503	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10504	Here we go. We find that this amendment has been accepted, after consent to the College. The College has the right to agree, inform the House, it is a business possibility. Moving to Amendment III.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10505	It's an amendment to Article 12 he passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10506	Yes, it is an amendment. Who's in favour of accepting amendment number III of Mr. Novaković? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Of the 32 present, so it was 15, 13 against, the same situation we're going to do. From the Federation who's in favour? From RS who's in favour? So we also have a demo for consent. You don't need to pass it. So amendment number III of Mr. Novaković was accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted all the amendments that have been submitted in business. We're going to make a statement on Zako's defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in favour of accepting this law? Who's up for the law? Who's against it? Who's being held back? It's a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10507	We're not going with the entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10508	Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10509	We're gonna get along right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10510	We're not going to do it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10511	We will, we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10512	He can't right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10513	That's not how Nikola can do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10514	Please, nice. Just a little bit, please. There's a business possibility of alignment. So for 25 from RS. It remains to be
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10515	It remains for Nikola to get along
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10516	I'm not gonna get along right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10517	A little while ago, we agreed on an amendment, which is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10518	One is the amendment, the other is the law. Please, nice law has a different weight. No, I'm begging you. So, Dom, we haven't agreed within the scheduled deadline, we'll notify the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10519	Put it to the vote if we don't agree. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10520	It can't be like that. You can't read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10521	Please, ladies and gentlemen, so this Mr. Špirić, we have agreed a hundred times during the session or disagreed. The latest example was about the amendment just before, about which we immediately carried out the reconciliation procedure and did not agree. I ask you to act on the same finding when it comes to the statement of the law. Ask the Federation, who is against, ask RS who is against and you will have the result. I already know the score. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10522	I ask you to look at the Rules of Procedure for what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Until the alignment can be performed. Let me see. If most of the vote contains one-third of the vote... it's not safe anymore, within the time limit. You see here it is said that you can call the College within the next 3 days if there is no consent in the College, I ask you to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10523	We can only solve business interventions
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10524	You can have it, there's no so it won't, we can take a break an hour. That's no problem, but I'm saying there won't be any consent. Don't rape the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10525	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of our 65th Rules of Procedure, which we have so far applied many times in this House, are quite clear. Whenever there was no dispute among us members of the College who took a stand, and today it is a situation, we immediately expressed our views and immediately brought the procedure to an end. It's not said in article 65 that you have to take a break, but that you can. And so far, we've been reading it nicely so far, so when there's a possibility of a deal between us three, then we're putting off when there's a small possibility. Today it is quite clear that there is no agreement between the three of us members of the College. I can at least say that for myself in terms of the proposal that you have proposed and it is completely illusory that today's alignment and the clarification are delayed. We can approach this act and the best witness to this claim is a brief statement about one of the amendments, when we immediately said we disagree, let's see who's against the Federation, who from the RS. I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure, not to violate practice and to do as we have done when it comes to the amendment, which means you ask the Federation who is against, to ask the RS who is against. You must have two-thirds of the Federation v, or two-thirds of RS v, and then the law did not pass. If it is less than that, the law has passed and the law is Mr Špirić as far as I see fit in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10526	I'm asking Mr. Džaferović to sit down, he's got his word. So I'm still chairing here, if Džaferović hasn't replaced me with most, but I'm asking for three days to agree or break an hour, so you'll get the same information. I beg you, this is an important law. Don't act like it for the sake of the law. Please be nice, so if I told Džaferović, not you. Please be nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10527	To make a statement on Džaferović's proposal 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10528	It can't be explained when I can't, so it can't because the College has to beg you within three days. So please give that opportunity, being nervous, you think that's why they're screaming there so they can take an hour off and try to agree within three days. Please, it's not a will at all. It's a business opportunity, please. Here's your business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10529	So, respected colleagues and respected chairman, article 1 of Article 65 says. If most of the votes do not contain one-third of the votes from the territory of each entity, etc. you have not determined whether most votes contain one-third of the votes from both entities. And I'm asking you to do it, and then see if there's any need for breaks, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10530	So it doesn't contain any votes from the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10531	We do, we have a voice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10532	You don't, you don't have one-third.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10533	We have a procedure that we did a little while ago, so please just keep this all going when you find out, there are only other possibilities and 60 minutes and three days are possibilities after you determine that you don't have one-third. You didn't find that out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10534	Mr. Kunić answered the question. Thank you very much. I'm asking you not to complicate. We'll just get out of this business.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10535	Dear gentlemen, I don't think it's necessary to create tensions, there's not one-third, there's only one vote from the entity. Don't cause tension without reason, the law hasn't passed. It writes nicely in Article 65(1) if most votes do not contain one-third of the votes, from the territory of each entity, or if they are left out of the quorum, the chairman may set a 60-minute break during which he will try to find a solution. Item 2 in case of insufficient majority, if the issue is not resolved after the break, the chair shall convene the College within the next 3 days, in order to achieve agreement. Who's the one raping us to plead now? Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10536	I thank Dr. Kunić. Here's Džaferović requesting business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10537	I am Mr. Kunić to you, therefore, you have read the correct provision of article 65.zakon, but I'm afraid there are two problems in this reading. First, you didn't say, and you should have said that it wasn't a cognitive norm, that it wasn't a obligatory norm, but that it was left on disposition, and so you should have been consistent to the end, and then you should have said that we were in the work of this Parliament, in 80% of the cases so far, by not taking these extra deadlines from an hour or from the next three days, but we were handling it, I repeat, whether there's a chance that something might be agreed on, so if there is then we were doing a delay, if there isn't an immediate statement. And I call again on you, both the Bosnian Herzegovic public, to return the video of our agreement on Amendment II to Additional Amendment II of Mr. Momčilo Novaković, because the cameras and the domestic and international public witnessed that we immediately approached the act of reconciliation. Therefore, why double the standard of one Rules of Procedure, why. I know the answer to that question, but please respect the same standard when it comes to the law. There's no second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10538	I thank Mr. Džaferović, who continues to report, Mr. Kunić answers his word. I'm asking you to give us a little patience to finish this. Here are the ways of the Lord.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10539	I'm sorry, I don't have a tendency to relocate, but if a judge finds a regulation like this, then the judiciary is what it is, the formerly nice thing to say, if most votes don't contain one-third of the votes from the territory of each entity, please, who would agree to vote this law without having one vote from the entity. Would you agree with that? Whether we're going to work on such a find, or we're going to continue to vote, or we're going to continue what used to be disastrous for all of us. Well, please, don't do it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10540	Thank you, Dr. Kunić. Replica Dr Gligorić and Dr Muratović. I'm begging you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10541	Mr. Kunić, if you're interested in the private as I was judge in my thirteen-year jurisprudence, I'll get you the grades of the relevant institutions, so you'll see for yourself, and don't judge. We didn't even know each other, and you never had any insight into what I was doing, as a judge and as a judge, uh, and don't take that argument when you interpret the legal norm. The legal norm does not know the method of interpretation which is called interpretation based on the characteristics and references of one who interprets, but the legal norm knows the language, logical, telological, historical and grammatical interpretation of the legal norm, you are a doctor of law and I ask you to stick to it, I respect that fact. That's all I needed to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10542	Thank you very much. Just a little key is here in something else. If it were, if it were, for the sake of the public, this already when they plead for the public, we were offering today an amendment to have a law. Don't now, please, wait a minute for us to get along. Why or should I take my word for it if you insist? Okelle, it doesn't matter. I wanted to comment before. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Muratović. Okay, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10543	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must respect the fact that we have repeatedly indicated in the discussion today, which is that we respect the act of voting. Some have left and I have condemned it. I stayed and told you and I that we have the right to vote in three ways. We voted. We are, if you wish to correctly interpret the Rules of Procedure, in Article 65, point 2 clearly and unequivocally interpreted and correctly by Professor Kunić. We gentlemen have finished the vote. The vote in this House to Article 65(2) is negative under this law. That it's the opposite situation, that you have one, etc. We'd tell some stories here at this pay phone. We have the next phase, which is because Mr. Džaferović is putting such pressure on us. Why is he nervous? Because we've got business. So you're making a difference, Mr. Duraković, you and I, you're making a difference. You're voting. You're ignoring the Rules of Procedure here about work. I beg you to respect him. Next. We're in the next phase. Article 65 says point 2 is that they need to get along and they can take a break, etc. And now, as an argument, Mr. Džafrović states that it has been a practice before, as well as with the amendments, but does not say the degree of importance about what needs to be agreed on. It's not the same thing. It's not the same deal that we're signing bilaterally or otherwise, that we had here, so we need to agree. But today you're passing an important law. After this pay phone, people clearly said how we could get to the law. We were very patient. We even offered solutions, but again on stage, the SDA stands. He can't. Not much. Which is not at all, and what we had to agree on was not the standard of NATO or the Partnership for Peace, but the standard of SDA and that, which is why I called you gentlemen and from the SDS who played this game to finally say with Mr. Džaferović he knows how to vote. Why? Because they didn't come and if you don't have 10 from RS law in the second round. That's your dirty game you agreed on. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10544	It's your dirty game. He's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10545	Oh, no, no, that's why we offered a solution. The U.S.A. in this country must bear responsibility. It's not for compromise and it doesn't want a solution. The U.S.A. is everything we've offered and as an opposition in another way you have to bear responsibility for why today's law fell in this first vote, and the next phase is the next phase of gentlemen and you have to be adamant, even until the next three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10546	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Dr Muratović Hasan came forward for the word, so Mr. Živković did. Everyone's gonna say what they're thinking. No problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10547	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have held over 20 votes so far. Therefore, the invitation to no more than one vote from an entity at the last vote does not necessarily drink water. We don't know if there would be any more, because there are no representatives from the party, the Serbian Democratic Party. So if the SDS were there, maybe we'd all vote yes, we don't know that. And we can't be here now in deciding how we're going to end the session, considering whether the SDS would vote like this or vote like that. If we voted without words all the time and respected the results of the vote, we should also hold the last vote, the same way we did with the other amendment by Mr. Novaković. That's one thing. Secondly, because of the seriousness of the vote, due to the importance of the law, because of the importance of this vote, therefore, whether one law for which the result of the vote is very much interested from here to Brussels and to our next guest, who, to our satisfaction today, will speak in Parliament, I think that Mr. Chairman you should consider that you are on a great test today, at one great responsibility whether this session will end properly or not, and whether you will call into question the mandate of leading the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10548	Thank you. There's no problem. Dr Živković. It will all be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This isn't a given term. You can have it whenever you want. I will work in this House in accordance with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure and I do not think I am a man who sits on blackmail. It would be my pleasure to sit down in the bench and work on the laws whenever Parliament decides for the most part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10549	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, 47 On this day I warned on several occasions that we could come into this situation and I am truly sorry about that and if before me were to speak much more of the Rules of Procedure, please pay attention to Article 65 of Section 2. Keyword: "The chair is calling on the College within the next three days." Well, the people who are to blame for you, what Mr. Špirić is currently chairing here. Don't let us make this Parliament out of anything but what he deserves. He's the only relevant to agreeing in the next three days when he determines that that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10550	I thank my colleague Živković. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10551	Mr. Špirć answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10552	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I have worked patiently today, and believe me, this is as hard a job as you feel yourself, but I really thought that we cared about getting to the law, to a good state law. The way in which this process is to be completed indicates that it is not. Today, it was, even when we were invited to a meeting of the MPs' clubs, saying they wouldn't come to the club. So people don't want a millimeter. Well, here's the key problem. Let's finish the vote now in front of the media. and colleague Živković invited you to a business provision. I will use it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It'll be scheduled for the College. The results of the alignment will be notified. Don't let us outsmart ourselves. It would have been good if we had shown so much will on the essence of legal solutions. So, I'm going to use a business provision to hold a conversation at the College within three days to schedule a new session on this law. We can, as far as I'm concerned, move to other points of the agenda, and I won't ban anyone from answering their word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10553	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Hadžić, then Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10554	I really appreciate trying to get out of this and when it's a business intervention. The Lords read Article 65 of Section 2 of the Presidency's appeal to the College within three days. But, gentlemen, they're skipping the previous text. That the chairman can set a break of up to 60 minutes, during which he will try to find a solution at point 1 of Article 65 and then point 2. In the event of an insufficient majority, if the issue is not resolved after the break, therefore, it is explicit, the break must be given to resolve the issue. If that issue is not resolved, then the chairman calls on the College within the next three days to reach agreement and I pray to the chairman, as he said he would respect the Rules of Procedure, yes, at the point of Article 1 65. Rules of Procedure. Can I discuss it? 48
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10555	Well, you finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10556	So you two talk while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10557	I don't talk to anyone, but they're talking to me, and I have a nervous feeling that I need to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10558	Don't let them talk. So we have to respect Article 65, point 1 in order to get to point 2 of Article 65. Because how do we know that we need to call the College within three days, if it says here that the condition is that the issue is not resolved after the break. Please apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10559	I beg you a moment, you will receive your word, Mr. Živković. This is where the chairman can write, it doesn't write the sea. Please read the Rules of Procedure. Well, it says here I can do it if I want. So I can, but he has the chairman to say he won't take a 60-minute break. He can do it where it says he can't. Here you go, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10560	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I did not purposely read Article 1 because I felt that we were tired enough today with these breaks and that this break in this case would solve nothing, unless only fictitiously this Article 65th position 1 repairs. On the other hand, Mrs Palavrić, remember a few months ago Mr. Džaferović was chairman, he also interpreted this article in his own way when it could be agreed upon immediately and voted immediately, and when it could not be called upon within three days. Why not let Mr. Špirić, who is currently chairing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10561	Please, Mr. Zorić answered the word, so Mr. Hadžić, so Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10562	Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to say anything new if I say I understand Mrs. Palavrić who said here and I agree with her that you should set a break to inform us afterwards, well, here I suggest you set a break, but that she is not 60 minutes away, because I don't think there is a need for a college of 60 minutes, because it says here until 60 minutes. So, it might be a lot shorter, because we've had a break today as long as you want, but, look, 49 colleagues Raguž came down to us, we as a club opted to respect everything that the College agreed on. If the College isn't ready to make a deal, let the deal or not present it to the House here and see how we're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10563	Thank you. I think that's a logical suggestion, too. We can take a break for ten minutes and let you know if the MPs agree, here's to cover the discussion. Ten minutes enough, today. Ten minutes off. Please, just a little bit of a colleague to say what he's thinking. Sir...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10564	I think it is very important for the results of the vote to be announced here and I ask the secretary to declare the results of the vote correctly, because here in Parliament the vast majority said it was for the law, meaning 25.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10565	There's 25 of the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10566	So 25 plus 1 - 26 votes are here for, and quite a small number of votes are against and I am begging the chairman, we are doing business. The ethnic alignment is now on its way. So the first alignment of the law has been passed. We're going entityically. The entitetski is disputed, and we need to be subjective to the end, and that means your alignment and your understanding of whether the vast majority of one entity is against this law. I beg you, please don't abuse, this is the voting process. We went into the voting process, we should have finished it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10567	It's all right, we'll end things in business. Ten minutes off. Here you go. Please don't open the debate. I can't understand. Just a minute to listen to a colleague of Križanović and a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10568	I wanted to say this before the break. We did one phase of voting on the law. After the vote, I would like to say that I, as a representative in this House, would not have the impression that we have passed this law unless there is an agreement. Please find out, I think we understand what we're talking about and I would suggest that you find a compromise, whether it's in this break for the next hour or for the next few days.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10569	Ten minutes break, and we'll let you know about the alignment. 50... we have not agreed and that we will take advantage of the business opportunity within the next three days for the College to agree and inform Parliament. [[PAUZA]] Thank you, and that ended the debate within the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act, first reading I open the debate. Who answers the word. He's not answering, Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10570	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a strange situation, given that this is, practically, about one automation, that the Council of Ministers law, the Ministry Act, after the defense law has been passed, after the minister has been put into practice with his responsibilities, and since we wait, practically for a statement in this period we talked about, I think it would be, indeed, correct to do so, because it is after the law is passed one next phase. Now that would go a little bit unsettled. They'd bring all that, and basically they wouldn't, practically, have the law, because we haven't adopted it yet, and we wouldn't have the opportunity, practically, to finish that part of the job either. I would suggest that we also postpone it for the next session, when we discuss the defense law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10571	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Dr Muratović answered the words. I think this is the law in the first reading, that Parliament will be able to adopt this law and that we, in our first reading, can make known these laws, because it is not the procedure of Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10572	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, this Gligoric argument does not stand, as we adopt the law on defence in the third reading, so we finally adopt, and this one is only adopted in the first reading. Therefore, in order not to wait for this procedure, in order not to waste time, we need to respect the adopted agenda and declare ourselves on all the laws that we put on the agenda this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10573	I thank my colleague Muratović. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that we should accept the Amendments and Supplements Bill on Ministers' Council in the first reading? Who's against it? Ugly? So, of the 31 present – 27 – abstentions 3 nor against. I agree that we adopted in the first reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers – the first reading. 51 Ad.3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Ministrys and Other Authorities of First Reading Who Answers?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10574	gospodin Špirić, the chairman of the dom, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10575	Ladies and gentlemen, here, it is, of course, a legal project, which makes up a package of laws regarding defence reform, but here I draw attention to only the necessary financial resources where it is said: Additional funding is needed to implement this law. Does anyone in this House know how much financial resources are needed and where they will be provided? Will we get from the Council of Ministers, when it proposes amendments and amendments to the law and the financial side of those laws, which is necessary. I am expressing a reserve according to this text of the law, that additional funding is needed so that no one in the state knows how much and from where it will be financed, and that is why I will not vote on the proposal for this law in the first reading, until the Council of Ministers delivers a financial basis for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10576	I thank Mr. Špirić. Anybody want to move on? Mrs. Palavrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10577	I can understand Mr Špirić's remarks, however, I would like to remind him of his proposal for a restitution law, in which he also could not express in cash how much that restitution would cost, so we will go with that law. So, are we going to behave equally when it's the law? I don't think the argument Mr. Špirić made is a reason not to accept the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10578	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We plead. Who is it to accept this bill in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 34 present – 28 – 5 versus – abstention 1. We have to go to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? 52 23 from the Federation for – 5 from RS. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. Confirmation of the decision to appoint the Ombudsman for BiH human rights, on a proposal from the BiH presidency, you received the materials. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10579	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Party for BiH MPs' club will not support the proposed solutions for a number of reasons, but I will list two basics. It is known that the Law on Ombudsmans is also the very nature of the work of the Ombudsman, absolutely implies a political personality, or a person without political engagement, or how modern it is now to say politically unrecognizable personalities. All three proposed candidates are people we know very well that were politically engaged or are now. So very politically recognizable. In addition, some of the candidates, more specifically Mrs Savić, has shown in her work so far in some relations that she does not care about basic human rights by voting against the constitutionality of the people in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10580	I thank Mr. Belkić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I conclude, Mr. Nijaz Duraković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10581	I would like to introduce this esteemed gathering to one notor fact. As far as I know the proposal for these three people came from the BiH presidency, which is a shameful fact for me, because they know well that the explicitly stated Ombudsman must be absolutely politically impartial, not partyly engaged, etc. My friend, for whom I have nothing, the distinguished Mr. Mariofil Ljubić has been in HDZ leadership for more than ten years, etc. Well, it is from the beginning, but it doesn't matter. You can't say for him that it's extra-party and that Martine is political, which they say is neutral, and people will be involved in protecting human rights and freedoms, etc. And this was obviously a choice that was in line with the inter-party agreement, so much I'm pleading to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10582	Thank you. Mr. Zorić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10583	Well, Mr. Duraković HDZ is full of quality personnel, so I'm not even at the top, let alone Mariofil Ljubić. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-27-0.u10584	I thank Mr. Zorić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the raps. Who's to accept the proposed candidates from the Bureau for this list? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, out of the 37 people present – 23 voted in favour – 10 voted against – abstention 4. The law requires two-thirds of those present, and those who voted, the abstentions do not count. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have accepted the list of candidates for the Ombudsman and have concluded today's 24th session of the Representative Council. I thank you for your patience and I'll see you at the next session. The chairman says three days. I'll make a deal with kolegij. The session's over at 4:30.
