ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9788	21st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this session, in addition to the MPs, has also been called by the chairman and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representative of the EU, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the monitoring mission in BiH and representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have expressed interest in following this session, representatives of the UMNIK in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of NGOs, the Centre for Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I warmly welcome all the MPs and guests who responded to our call. I particularly welcome the Chair of the Council of Ministers and the present ministers who are following and attending our meeting today. According to the Service report, 39 MPs attend the session, so we have a quorum, and Mr. Vinko Zorić and Dr. Zlatko of Lagumdžija and Mr Abdulah Nakaš. The others have not announced their absence. We expect that during the session, he will arrive at this 21st session of the House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, for the 21st session, you've been given the agenda. I must say that before this session, we held an extended session of the College and that there was no requirement for the agenda to be changed. In that sense, I don't need to read this agenda. I'll read it for a stenogram when we have a debate on the agenda. So, I'm opening a discussion on the agenda that you've received in addition to the material for today's session. Who's answering for a word? No one's answering. He is reporting to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9789	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to present to you a technical amendment in the conclusions reached by the Council of Ministers regarding the debate on the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Council of Ministers Act and the laws amending and proposing laws amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. So, it is that on 10.10th of our regular session, we had a debate on the Commission's defence reform report in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we adopted and that we also discussed within that the proposal for a law on defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ministers coming from Republika Srpska requested that the Council of Ministers not hold a debate until consultations have been held and the debate under the laws in question is conducted in entity parliaments. We found one compromise that consisted of the next. We agreed to conclude, however, that we should hold a debate on this regardless of the opinions of the ethnic parliaments, to hold a debate on the proposed text of the law, and to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly that the Law be followed by a shortened procedure as set out in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure recommending that the assembly debate on the law should not be conducted until the debate is also held in entity parliaments. By circumstances, by a purely technical error when the Law was delivered in the procedure to this home that part of the conclusion was excluded, so I ask you to accept it. So we recommend and here we recommend that this home be determined according to the 104th procedure to accept procedure 104, and since the entity parliaments have already scheduled their sessions and that this will actually happen sometime by the 29th of this month so that you do not have a final debate on the law until you have received the opinions of the entity parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9790	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, so this is not through a change of agenda, but an clarification, I thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered for the word, so Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9791	Dear colleagues and colleagues related to the explanation of the Council of Ministers Presidents, I would like to remind you that the House of Representatives at the Constitutional and Legal Commission initiative has asked the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to, in accordance with Article 3(4). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina opens a permanent process of co-ordination towards transfer of competence. So the procedure in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is something different. She goes through the presidency and she needs to be performed in constant continuity. We will each, here we have a situation with the Law on the introduction of indirect taxation, i.e. this 3 system law, there in the final and transitional provisions, I think the Article 39 says that the law will come into force when parliaments adopt it, that is, when it is accepted by entity parliaments. So, please, I insist, i.e. the Club of Members of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina insists that this be resolved as a previous issue and in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the coordination requested by this House of Representatives from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not that we come into a situation every time to make things conditional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9792	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word's got to be dr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9793	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that point 3 of point 4 and point 5 be removed today from the agenda session, precisely for the reason Mr. Terzić and Mr. Belkić spoke of. When it comes to coordination and the Presidency and what we were saying on the Constitutional-Law Commission, considering that it is necessary to resolve it just as Mr Belkić said as a previous question and at the same time Mr Terzić has in some way stressed himself, but perhaps in a different way in terms of doing so, while waiting for the entity parliaments to be declared. Given that constitutional competences, powers are being transferred here, and that as a preliminary question, entities should certainly be made known and in this way they would certainly be in a position to discuss this matter more easily. Since MPs have no mandate to transfer constitutional powers and this becomes an objective problem for MPs from both entities. I don't know what it's like in the Federation when it comes to this relationship to changing constitutional powers compared to, say, Republika Srpska. Since the National Assembly will discuss the issue of the delegation of powers, perhaps the issue of changing the entity's constitution, because it is an internal matter of the entity to bring something into line with the BiH Constitution, which we had as a previous procedure, but when we talk about the Law on indirect taxation, when we talk about the Law on Defence, it is also one question that practically affects the Constitution and entities. I think you should appreciate that. What has been done in the meantime can really serve as a good basis, and then we can have a good debate and come to a good law. Therefore, if you MPs would appreciate that we are removing this item of the agenda for these reasons, it is quite understandable that we should also move points 4 and 5, because it is about amendments and additions to the Law on Council of Ministers, the Law on Ministrys, which is, in fact, automation when a law on defence is passed, in which case it is quite understandable to amend and supplement and the Law on Council of Ministers and Ministrys. 4 So I'm asking you to do it, I think that's how we're actually going to do it better and faster and more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9794	I thank my colleague Gligorić. The word is requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go. Well, Mrs. Seada Palavrić, if I've seen correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9795	I'll just meet the MPs that we respected the procedure and that the Council of Ministers sent a report to the Bureau. So first, the Bureau discussed the Commission's full report, and an integral part of the report was also the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and so the procedure was 100% discussed by the Council of Ministers on the basis of the Presidency's conclusion. That's one thing. Secondly, I think we should remind ourselves, however, that on 28 January this year, Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence objectives are adopted and that implementation of reforms that will help integrate Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European family and make the state and wider region more stable in the long term and that strengthening state-level institutions that will exercise civilian command and control over the armed forces, is precisely part of these defence targets. So we are now in a position to implement what we adopted ourselves in January of this year through the emergency process of passing the Defence Act. On the other hand, you know that a session of the North Atlantic Pact Council is being held on 15 and 16 December to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's bid to join the Partnership for Peace. Therefore, any delay in the debate and ultimately the adoption of this law would distance us in general on the agenda of this issue on 15 and 16 December at the meeting of the North Atlantic Council. The other side is obviously there is enough political consensus in this country, given that the presidency has brought it. Here yesterday we had a session of the Republika Srpska government, which fully accepted the Commission's report, so the Law also adopted the need for the state to get the Ministry of Defence. So since we have a political consensus on these issues, for us in the Council of Ministers, it is crucial that by the beginning of December we have resolved the issue of amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers' Law and amending and supplementing the Ministry Act in order to include this new defence ministry in the draft budget for next year. So it's evident that we have a political agreement that the state will get the Ministry of Defence and don't come into a position like we did in December last year when we knew that the Council of Ministers would count 8 ministries, but we have made a budget that didn't involve them. So we can't have something that isn't legally set out for us to plan in the budget, and I think we would have had huge problems again if we didn't have a legal framework for the Ministry of the Treasury, the Presidency, and the Presidency is proposing a 2004 budget within the legal deadlines, so long before the new year, and that, as part of the Budget Proposal, we don't have the Ministry of Defence. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9796	I thank the chairman, Mr. Terzić. I would pray, therefore I thank you for the additional information, but that the MPs should have a debate on the points of the agenda and if there are amendments, requests for an amendment and an addition to that in writing we have so that we can make a statement. The word came from Seada Palavrić, so Dr. Petar Kunić, then Novaković, then Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9797	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refer only to Mr Gligorić's proposal. His proposal to remove certain points of the agenda from today's session. I find it unacceptable, first of all, for the reasons that these are mandatory points of the agenda in the Rules of Procedure, as far as I understand. Second for the reason it's about reform laws. Thirdly, for each of these laws is also about the competences of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and part of the jurisdiction of the entities to be transferred. Fourthly, the entities have already generally declared themselves to accept the report on the reform of the defence system, and yesterday it did so as much as I know of the Republika Srpska government. Fifth, don't ask us to bring today October 23rd to delay the debate on these laws along with a proposal from the Council of Ministers, because the deadline for their adoption is extremely short, and just a few days ago, the SDA was accused as a brakesman of defence reform or indirect taxation. So, just now, today, I call for this speaker to keep the words of each party parliamentary, not parliamentary, positional and opposition that were just a few days ago when they claimed to be reforms and that, without a spare, they accepted the reports and proposed legislation, and that the details were discussed in the parliamentary procedure. So today we need to conclude that these reform and system laws are being discussed under a shortened procedure and we can begin and in the meantime, entity parliaments will even complete their procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9798	I thank my colleague Palavrić. So I'd like to have a discussion. There are mandatory agenda points that cannot be downloaded from the agenda. That's what MPs have to take care of. So I can have other suggestions. We are not having a discussion today who is for reform, who is against reform, but who is for the procedure of the law proposed in the agenda. And please give 6 of us a serious debate about the procedure, and when it's laws and when it's a fundamental debate, everyone will have a chance to say what they think is right and what's wrong with that law. And what I want to believe is that all of us in clubs will try to create the necessary political will to meet the goal of all the laws being passed by November 15th or 17th, actually in December, given what the Council of Ministers has been talking about. But we have time. We just can't spend any time in the wild political debates. That's what needs to be taken care of. The word was answered by Dr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9799	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think it is most important that this Parliament adheres to the Constitution and the law, and this is not about any political misunderstandings, but rather about establishing a single order in Parliament. So I'd like to ask the President of the Council of Ministers to withdraw these three points from the agenda, because it can. Because things are prejudged until the entity's defence debates are held, that is, indirect taxation. It's not here, but I would like to ask the Council of Ministers to withdraw these three points of the agenda, because there is a certain procedure for how things should go. We face that problem all the time. No Niko, does not hold back the reform of the people's defence, so don't attribute, give qualifications to someone if they suggest we stick to some procedure to stop the debate on these issues. Please, I want us to respect a certain procedure. Absolutely. Therefore, I absolutely support Mr Gligorić's proposal, but I ask, in that sense, the Council of Ministers to withdraw these agenda points. The question of additional jurisdiction, as Mr Belkić said, is. The Bureau may propose, through coordination, the so-called additional jurisdiction, and if one of the entities does not object. So it's a kind of establishment, establishing additional competences. Another species is when entities agree. So there are two visions, another vision is when entities agree. It is obvious here this time of entity consent, i.e. obtaining an entity's debate to agree on this issue in this debate. And that's the previous question. So that's a previous question that we have to wait for in a short time for the entities to plead on that issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9800	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. Here's a word from Mr. Momčilo Novaković. He's giving up. Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman came forward for a word. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9801	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I just wanted to talk about the point, I don't know what's next, here's what I didn't look at right now, it's about the Law of Conflict of Interest, about amendments and amendments to the Law to remind you that I'm suggesting a possible further order of action. In fact, two days ago, the College informed the Constitutional and Legal Commission that amendments that were submitted in the meantime should be considered and to submit a supplementary report to this home. We couldn't meet in the meantime. We were just planning this session, and given the amendments and the number of them, and perhaps some controversy about the timing, and since it is only the regular, mandatory point of the agenda that might make sense today, that the Commission has time to discuss it, or that I should really ask colleagues and colleagues who are members of the Commission and you to give us time to simply consider this issue today. So this is about the agenda, and here I am, making two suggestions. Or, in agreement with this point, we will extend even though it is mandatory to do so on the agenda, and until that next session, the Constitutional and Legal Commission will consider amendments, or at a suitable time, give us enough time to consider the amendments and submit a report to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9802	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. The word was answered by dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9803	Dear Members of the College, Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, on a discussion that, at the request of the Council of Ministers on a statement on procedure 104, has been launched for the adoption of the agenda, and I would like to remind myself in one way of some of the provisions of the Constitution, which were here about coordination on the Presidency, which Belkić specifically mentioned. However, in Article 3(5), it is very clear that Bosnia will take over competences at the state level in those matters on which the entity's consent is reached, so that the lists that are under b) are listed in a period of 6 months from the entry into force of this Constitution, entities will start negotiations with the aim of including other issues within the competence of BiH institutions. We are already in the seventh year after dejtonski, the adoption of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and I must say that I am expressing a real surprise perhaps to colleagues whose party presidents are sitting in the Council of Ministers and we have received this law from the Council of Ministers. I remind you, which I assume unanimously made the decision to refer to the parliamentary procedure a request for a statement and adoption or a debate of this law under procedure 104. I would like to emphasise more for one reason why the chairman of the Council of Ministers spoke about, and this is a matter of time and upcoming activities related to the accession of 8 Bosnia and Herzegovina to Euro-Atlantic integration, above all I mean a partnership for peace. I would also like to remind you here that the law or procedure relating to the Law on the indirect taxation system has been mentioned here that the upcoming commitment to realisation and establishment, therefore, of a new system with deadlines running from the beginning of the year. We're already at the end of this month. We don't have time anymore. I just want to remind you that in all these discussions and reflections by insisting on some new procedures, be prepared to bear responsibility for any deadlines. We can't be late anymore. In none of these segments, I still want to remind you of what will follow procedures and statements and entity assemblies and entity governments, possible signing of an agreement between entity prime ministers, etc. that all these members or, points 4 and 5 of Articles 3. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina defines exclusively the jurisdiction of the state, or entity. This reform set, both in terms of defence and indirect taxation, is about common competences. Therefore, both in defence and in indirect taxation of both state institutions and entityal and lower levels of government will be in line with the envisaged system of special competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9804	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, Dr. Sead Avdić responded.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9805	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Members of the vijće of Ministers, I would be free to insist and to support the Council of Ministers' position to keep these three points on the agenda, under Article 104, and that is only a statement on the procedure, there is no revision of any equal solutions, with as much as possible the College and the extended College agreed on the agenda. I can't make any sense to me how we now have a conflicting opinion on this House. So it would be high time for an extended college to take it extremely seriously that it was simply what it suggested to adopt. Not just having to get off the agenda. The Council of Ministers, which also holds all parliamentary parties ruling, means parliamentary majority, has also proposed on the agenda, and I see no real reason for us to destroy the agenda proposed by the extended College on this finding. It means one protest, simply what is happening at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. I think it's just a question of whether we're going to interpret the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in a functional way, or whether we're going in a restrictive way. If in a restrictive way, then there's no dilemma. Then we will slow down everything that is simply in progress and in the reform process, etc., with the more we have December 15th conditionally said as a deadline until we need to complete our legislative activity, so that we can easily approach the partnership for peace and start these negotiations. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9806	Thank you, Dr. President. I'm going to have The word was answered by Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9807	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, has asked me to contact my predecessor, or else I don't think it's necessary to hold a debate on the agenda, especially since the Expansive College and the College have to put agenda points at the request of the Council of Ministers. We can't do that at the College or at the Expansive College to reject it as mandatory points of the agenda. But we can also say, I come from the SNSD that we will not vote for the procedure of these points under 3rd, 4th and 5th, for the simple reason that they are not simple first and do not go according to this procedure the law is simple, and the second is that they cannot physically hold meetings of entity assemblies and that there is a necessary change in entity constitutions. And I suggest that the agenda item number six be the last item of the agenda, and that in the meantime, when there's a lunch break, there's a debate on the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9808	Thank you, Dr. President. Zivkovic. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, since these are mandatory agenda points that we have proposed there is no business opportunity to remove them, and we have not heard a proposal for new agenda points on which this Parliament should be declared. In that sense, I am asking MPs who have had suggestions to add to the agenda to understand that it is business, that we have had an extended college and that this has become mandatory points of the agenda, and that when these points of the agenda apply to the content of this agenda, it is a matter when we come to that point of the agenda. So I'm asking you not to work outside of business opportunities. These are mandatory items of the agenda and therefore there was no requirement for new points of the agenda, so there is no need for this parliament and this House to be declared. In that sense, I would like to conclude that the agenda that you received in the invitation to this session was adopted, which is point one. Record of the 20th House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 10 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Administration on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, please. _______ Business intervention. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Why? We've adopted the agenda. And I read the agenda for a stenogram. So the sixth item of the agenda. There is no voting when the binding points of the agenda are business. Please. So I'm asking to consult the Rules of Procedure himself. The sixth item of the agenda we adopted is 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), noting that we will give the competent commission half an hour or 45 minutes to declare the amendments, 7. Proposal to amend and supplement the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 (first reading), 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2003 (first reading), 9. Proposal for a law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) and 10. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. So, ladies and gentlemen, that's the agenda. I'm asking for an apology for the next half-hour or half-hour session will be led by Mr. Martin Raguž, since I have an urgent meeting and I'll be back in 45 minutes. Thank you very much, and I want Martin to continue the session. So we move to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. A record from the 20th session of the House of Representatives in Otvarm's hearing. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9810	Who's reporting for the minutes from the 20th session of the House of Representatives? No Niko's answering. Can we accept the minutes from the 20th session of the House of Representatives? Who's in? Do you mind? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? I agree that we unanimously accepted the minutes from the 20th session of the House of Representatives. We move to the second item of today's session of the House of Representatives. It's Ad. 2. Representatives' questions and answers In the time from the 20th session to today, we have not received a single answer to the parliamentary questions. We only received a notice from the Human Rights Ministry that the issue of representatives of Gligorić was raised at the 18th session of the municipality of Bihac, and that the answer will follow when they are shown. I'm opening up the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Belkić. That's the order, so Mr Ivo-Miro Jović. Here you go. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9811	Dear Presidency, I've already referred a similar question. The question is – When will the implementation of pension and disability insurance rights follow, especially when it comes to proportionate pensions of persons who have achieved one part in the former Yugoslav republics? Please respond. It is said here that a special September 15th meeting will be held on this. I'd like to hear what's been concluded and when that realization will follow. It's about things that are undeniably fundamental human rights. So these are issues that deserve special attention. It's about thousands of people who can't make their pension. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9812	I thank Representative Kunić. Delivery's in writing. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9813	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer a question to the College of the House of Representatives to answer - Why is the Commission not working on the case of the appointment of the public defender of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ms. Dragica Miletić? A commission, members of the Commission, has been formed, and I, as a proposing, have received materials that are quite sufficient to raise the issue, since the College should follow the work of the Commission. In this case, this particular one. I know she's been established, too, because Mr. Jovanović is the chairman of these committees, so I'd like to get an answer, why. It's just been so long, and conditions have been created that you can simply conduct the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9814	I thank Mr. Gligogorić. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9815	Our club has two questions that are articulated right over me. So both of them, according to the Council of Ministers, and both of them are in a way intended to stimulate certain processes that we think are very important at this point. So the first question is – Who and with what kind of organisational technical expressive and financial support leads the process of harmonising domestic legislation for European legislation? So that's the first question for the Council of Ministers. And the second question -- how many competences are there and whether they have the capacity of the new institution that we in the last year and a half at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina are establishing and whether they have taken over, have started to perform the functions that we have formed them by passing the law here? So, first of all, I mean newly formed ministries, I mean directorates, agencies, etc. I would like to mention, for example, the Institute of Statistics, the BiH Archives, the Veterinary Office, the Bureau of Measurement, etc. etc. So both issues are in place as a result of certain processes that are very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9816	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is represented by Ivo-Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9817	I would like to thank Mr. President, the most respected pillars, ladies and gentlemen, the respected members of the Council of Ministers. The fact that in the war, cultural heritage in Bosnia and Herzegovina experienced, not to say disaster, the catastrophic exchange of destruction, cannot be reconciled with the fact that, among other things on the main road, road 17 from Salakovec to Mostar on the right hand side in Jelusa remains the main waste disposal site of the necropolis of the bankruptcy. I therefore ask the Commission for the Protection of Monumental Heritage in Bosnia and Herzegovina – does it seem anything to stop these two years of activity and to preserve the localities for future generations?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9818	I thank Representative Ivo Miri Jović. The word has a representative, Mr. Suljkaovnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9819	Ladies and gentlemen's esteemed presidency, I do not have a consistent question, however, I have one proposal when it comes to asking parliamentary questions, some things obviously need to be changed. If we continue with this practice, these questions will become a purpose to themselves, and I don't think we should be allowed to do that. If you ask a question, then it's time or right away to get an answer, if you can't right away at least within some reasonable time. At a session of 7.8 this year, I asked a question about new hydro-productive capacities and other projects that will reroute the water of the sitting point towards the other. It is about the projects of the Fatnička polje, i.e. the Upper Horizonti, and to this day there is no answer. I have information that there has been continued activity on this matter. So if we don't change something then we really need to do this point or get off the agenda and not let us here as serious people just waste time. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9820	I thank Mr. Suljkanović. 14 I think it is an extremely important suggestion that should be defined and specified through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, because in democratic countries, here we have witnessed, these days we have visited the institution of parliamentary issues and the answer is one of the most important institutions in Parliament. And we have a responsibility to specify the procedure through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and to make all those who need to give answers to this home responsible. Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9821	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I would like to warn you of Article 124. A Rules of Procedure, which says lawmakers are asking questions to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and any member of it. So there is no business opportunity for me to ask each other parliamentary questions, and in that sense it is impossible to ask a parliamentary question to the College of this House. It is therefore possible to ask parliamentary questions to the Council of Ministers or ministers in writing or oral form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9822	I thank Mr. Novaković. Any more parliamentary questions? If there is no thanks to anyone who has referred parliamentary questions and concludes the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third point, that's Ad. 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers with the Proposal for a Law were sent to you on 15 this month and I am opening a debate on this item of the agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9823	I just want to say that when it comes to this law, like the next two, there is no need to wait for the entity's views on these laws because this is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can therefore approach today the act of determining this shortened procedure and discussing the law. The story of entity jurisdiction, I'm afraid, is not motivated by some other 15 reasons. I won't talk about them, because no one here has encouraged them. This is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no need to transfer entity jurisdiction here, therefore we have the conditions to work without declaring entity parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9824	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Mr. Novaković has the word. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9825	Dear colleagues, I am not going to mention the issue of jurisdiction now, because it is clear that I do not agree with Mr Džaferović and I do not think that this issue is in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because if it were, it would probably be on the agenda of both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and all other bodies. So this is a very serious question and, of course, everyone in their position can interpret jurisdiction as it seems appropriate to him. But I didn't come out to talk about jurisdiction, because our position here is quite clear, we will wait for the position of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. I am informed that the 29th session is scheduled and is dependent on it, on this debate and on this attitude and this transfer of jurisdiction will continue to be discussed and on the law itself. As far as the law itself is concerned, of course, we understand the importance of adopting this law and precisely because of this importance and because of the importance of this law being passed, I must say immediately that we are in favour of this law being adopted in this House and allowing Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter these Euro-Atlantic structures, but it is precisely because of all this complexity that it takes a certain time, a time to discuss this law with full respect for the expertise of the commission which has worked to prepare this law and whose expertise and good will and effort I do not dispute this time. But we also need MPs to get into this problem, too, before I see any big reasons for the urgency to pass this law. In a regular procedure until December 15th, we can adopt this law and I responsibly argue that the SDS Club will make every effort and contribute to the adoption of the law by 15 December. But in one orderly, one normal procedure. That is why it made sense for Mr Gligorić and Mr Kunić's proposal, which of course is not business, and I also suggested it at the enlarged College not to put these three points on the agenda, but to discuss the short procedure when a certain procedure in entities passes. And that would have speeded it up, but of course we didn't, it wasn't enough to say what we heard about it, so this remained the way it is, and finally the position of the SDS Club is to discuss these laws in the regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9826	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9827	Dear Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to know when Parliament is the Federation, because this proposal fits here with the proposal made by Mr Adnan Terzić, chaired by the Council of Ministers, which decidently says next – requires a statement by procedure 104, and that the debate be carried out after the same adoption in the entity parliaments. Therefore, he accepted that suggestion, but asked to be brought into procedure 104, so that we would, if we took the deadline that it was 29 or 30 this month, had the possibility of still having those 7 days, 15 days, which is half the time, and I think absolutely here, the Council of Ministers' proposal goes in favour of today's procedure being adopted to go through the 104 process and we are already in preparation as if the law would be adopted at the ethnic levels. I note once again what angers me as MPs, or MPs in Parliament, which, when we go out, we do not represent the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are representatives of the state parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I express my personal belief and my conviction that until we change our position that we are representatives in the state, not in entities, we will not have one dynamic solution to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9828	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Novaković. It's a replica, isn't it? Correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9829	I just want to say that it's not exactly Mr. Bešlagić's finding that someone here represents entities. So here we're talking about entities when it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction from entities and let it be perfectly normal for us to talk about these and those laws in this way. Of course, if someone follows this work well enough, then they can see that these issues, and especially entities are not at all discussed when it comes to such a character of the law, so when it comes to these transfers of jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9830	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I will conclude the debate on the third item of the agenda and we will move to a vote on the request of the Council of Ministers. 17 Please, who is to accept the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal for a Law on Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 104. Rules of Procedure? Who's in? Thank you. Did you count it? Who's against it? Thank you. Please get the results. Are there any abstentions? No abstentions. So to accept the Council of Ministers' request, 25 voted against 10, with no abstentions. The law has a majority, a general majority. Now we're going to vote on entities. Who is in the Federation to accept the request of the Council of Ministers? Thank you. Who is from Republika Srpska in order to accept the request of the Council of Ministers for decomposition of the Amendments and Supplements Act, in accordance with Article 104? Thank you. So the Federation was 23, from Republika Srpska 2. So we move on to the consent of the College, as you can see, of gospodin Špirić's President-in-Office dom for an objective reason, is currently not there, and since we have a promise to give a break to the Constitutional and Legal Committee for the Review of Amendments to the Proposal for a Law on freedom of religion and rights of religious and conflict of interest, I apologize, I suggest that we now give this break that we can agree in the College on this procedure, to respond to the amendments and to continue to work afterwards. If you agree, by 13 o'clock. So we'll be back to work at 1:00. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9831	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we proceed. I ask the MPs when we give a break that at the time when the proposal continues we show up in the O.R. There's no need to shop in the halls to work intensively. So we move forward with the work on the third item of the agenda, the pause I was informed about to achieve agreement regarding the procedure of Article 104 of the Defence Act. I have to inform you that we have not reached agreement, but we must end the voting procedure. 18 I ask from the Federation who is against the procedure of Article 104? There's no one here. I ask from Republika Srpska which against the procedure of Article 104? If there are any abstentions, there are no abstentions. I'd like some results. I therefore find there were no votes against the Federation, 11 from Republika Srpska. So I find that we are not on the 3rd item of the agenda, this is a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Law proposal, we did not accept the procedure of Article 104. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, with the bill, were sent to lawmakers on 15 October. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the request of the Council of Ministers to discuss this law on the procedure of Article 104? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. So of the 39 present 27 was for, against the 12 abstentions there was no. So we have most of it. We're moving on to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? So 25 from the Federation for, 2 from Republika Srpska for. We're going to get a match. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to close the debate on this proposal by the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, there's no consent in the College. We're going to a plea. Who's against the Federation? Who's against Republika Srpska? So no one was against the Federation. From Republika Srpska 12 against. I find that the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 104 has not been accepted. Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 19 We move to the fifth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Administration on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure with the Bill proposal were sent to you on 15 October. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to a plea. Who is in order to accept the Council of Ministers' request that we discuss this law in accordance with point 104. Rules of Procedure? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. So of the 39 MPs who voted 27, there were no abstentions against 12. So we're going to an entity statement. Who's in favor of the Federation? No, no, yes. Who's in favor of the Federation? Who's in favour of Republika Srpska? So 25, from Federation 2 for Republika Srpska, also goes to the reconciliation procedure. So since it's a set of amendments to the same procedure, there's no agreement in the College. Let's finish the vote. Who's against the Federation? There's no one here. Who's against Republika Srpska? So with 12 votes against the Republika Srpska, no vote against the Federation, I find that we have not accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, that's an emergency procedure. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving to the sixth point of the agenda, that's Ad. Six. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading We have been informed that before the break, we have been given a break so that the Constitutional and Legal Commission can consider the amendments and I ask the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of Mr Ćeman to submit a report on what the Commission has done in the course of the break. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9832	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, for our clear reasons, we have not been able to report in writing at this time. It will certainly be made up of today's work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, or amendments that we are today... but in terms of stim
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9833	I ask you to listen to the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9834	As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to report to you next. As already known on the basis of the report submitted by this Constitutional and Legal Commission on 3.9th of this year, the House of Representatives has set an additional deadline by 20th of this month that MPs may submit amendments to the amendment and addition of the Law we are talking about, which is proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić. This opportunity was exploited by three of our colleagues, three of our colleagues, Mr Muratović Hasa, Mr Ivo-Miro Jović and Mr Milorad Živković. A total of 8 amendments have been tabled. The amendments treat members of the original text of the law on 3.4.5.,10.,11. and 20. by Muratović 4 amendments, Mr. Jović 1 amendment and Mr. Živković 3 amendments. Mr. Jović and Živković made some technical adjustments today in their amendments so that the fact should also be taken into account. The Commission's consideration of these amendments and the procedures concerning this issue had one dilemma which it resolved in the following way. The question has been raised whether amendments can be made to only those members of the law, i.e. a proposal to amend and supplement the laws covered by the proposal to be treated, or to the law as a whole, to the original basic text of the law. The opinions, I must say, have been shared, but it is an undivided opinion and a unanimous position of this committee to suggest to you the following, as a House of Representatives. First, given certain and legal technical and other dilemmas, as well as the need and the possibility to further analyse the amendments made and the need for any further interventions in the amendments and additions to the original text of the law, the Commission proposes to this House to set a further 10 days period for all MPs in which they could submit amendments to the integrated common text of the Law on Conflict of Interest. This 21 means, of course, the possibility of treating those amendments and additions proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić as a proponent of this law. The Commission considered this to be the only solution at this time, given the efforts made by colleagues who have made amendments and the seriousness to be given to the examination of these amendments, which it was not able to do in full at this time, as well as the need to treat any other questions not covered by Mr Špirić's proposal when it was already discussed the amendments and amendments to this law. I hope, too, here I am talking to fellow Members of the Constitutional Legal Commission that in this short oral report, I have included everything that we have concluded, what we have talked about, and so please, with one more apology that for technical reasons we couldn't put this all on paper so quickly and share it with you to make a statement, i.e. to accept the proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9835	I thank the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to Mr. Ćeman. I'm opening a debate. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously reached this conclusion, it would be good not to waste time but to support the Constitutional and Legal Commission's conclusion. So this is my proposal and to simply give those 10 days to all MPs so that we can come to an amendment to the Law of Conflict of Interest. Is there a need to open a debate? I'm opening the debate, but I'm asking for restraint in the debate. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. So here's to accepting the Constitutional and Legal Commission's conclusion that a 10-day deadline for the amendment to act as an amendment is to be completed. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? – 1 abstention So with 38 votes for, no one against, 1 abstentions I find that there is no need for entity voting and that we have adopted a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Commission to approve a 10-day deadline may act amendmentically on amendments to the Law on conflict of interest. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's 22 Ad. Seven. The proposal to amend and supplement the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003 was submitted to the House on 3 October this year. The College set short deadlines for considering the Budget Amendment Proposal as well as the committee responsible. Under these deadlines, the Constitutional and Legal Commission was due to deliver an opinion on the compliance of the advance with the Constitution by 17 October 2003, which it did, and the committee responsible for finance and the budget report was due to deliver by 22 October 2003. You also have that report in your papers. I am opening a debate, therefore, on the proposal to amend and supplement Budget in the first reading, and of course the reports of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Finance and Budget Commission are part of it. I'm opening a dispersion. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9836	An integral part of today's text of the Budget proposal, which is to be declared by Parliament, and I believe that today there will also be a reading merger between the amendments of the committee responsible, the Finance Commission and the budget of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These amendments have actually increased the amount of funds relating to Parliament's costs. I want here, therefore, consistent with everything I have said so far when the budget of Parliament is to say the following. You've got something before I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9837	I'm asking you to listen. You're the only one who's talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9838	If you have something before I finish, I'll let you do it, so I'll keep going, but don't do it right now, whoever said I'm doing it 100 times. Mr. Jusufović, you can come here for a pay phone, and then continue, I'll give you a seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9839	I'd like you to continue the debate, please don't throw us off the bench, let's hear from each other. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9840	So, when it comes to the funding provided for this year for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament in Budget, the Commission has made an amendment and instead of an amount of 5544,000.00, it is now an item according to the Commission's position of 5,888,422.00 KM. I want to say that part of these funds is justified, in my opinion, included in the amendments. So, justifiable and that's the part that applies to special purpose programmes. And that part was increased by about 100,000 marks. This refers to improving Parliament's working conditions, its technical equipment and I have never advocated anything in my performance that would hinder this parliament in its normal development. The other amount refers to the salaries of lawmakers, and this is caused by the Administrative Commission's decision to increase salaries. That is why I am expressing my protest here for the speaker because I do not think that it was necessary to do so on the Commission itself, because I am still standing, therefore, at the point that if the salaries were returned to an earlier level, that this procedure, or part of this operation, would not be justified, or would not be necessary. So I went out here to express my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with this, but I will when it comes to the budget since this is now an integral part of the budget. Now the budget is in front of me take or leave, with what's embedded in the budget, to vote for budget rebalance, because budget rebalance is needed by this state. But unfortunately, it got through him and this thing that I don't agree with. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9841	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Nikola Kragulj, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, so Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9842	Gentlemen, the chairman, dear colleagues, I just wanted to point out that Mr. Džaferović is probably not well this one, noted the report or the review, and I think that this is an incorrect quote, because I don't think the Commission has accepted from the amendment an item which would be an increase in personal income, i.e. wages, but has only accepted an item of remuneration from employees and assembly representatives. And she accepted normally, the item of these, the Special Purpose Programme, so that practically through the Special Purpose Programme, she returned the estimated amount in this budget through the rebalancing, and the rebalancing was only accepted the amendment under the regular number of 2 fees for staff members of the Assembly. I think these are the costs that the Commission rightly appreciated. They must be covered because these are the costs associated with professionalization and the activity of this MP. It starts with the sheets, starts with the fees of a separate life, starts with the fees of contracts, starts with the travel fees for families, etc. Finally, there is an explanation in the amendment given. Therefore, we do not feel that we have left when it comes to personal income from the framework proposed by the Rebalan budget. There's just so much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9843	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Wrong quote, Mr. Džaferović's replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9844	So it's clear to me, Mr. Kragulj, what you're talking about, and I think we understand each other very well when it comes to these things. The increased salaries are covered by the draft budget, but the reduced amounts for the flat-rates are now you, except for the fact that you have left these increased salaries, have made an amendment to cover a part of the funds to cover even the flat-rate. So that's pretty clear to me, and that's what I'm talking about. So this is to get both on the bridge and on the pot. It could have been obtained on the cobwebs by getting off the salary as the budget was proposed, so that it would not jump out of this budget item. I mean, these things are completely clear to me. I've cut down on the discussion, I've come to the door to talk about these things, but I've had to say it today when budget rebalances are adopted, because many stories about this were usually about budget rebalancing. And don't be mad at me, please. I've been representing this attitude since day one and acting the way I speak at the pay phone. And no offense, I have the right and the obligation to speak of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9845	I would like to thank my colleague Džaferović, Mr Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9846	Dear colleagues, fellow representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, thus expressing a full understanding of all the difficulties in finding the source of funding and functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I find it bad that the budget rebalance for this year is being discussed at a time when we should have on the agenda the draft budget for next year. I also want to say that I am deeply aware of the need for strengthening, further strengthening of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, to point to one major problem, which has not been sufficiently treated in this rebalancing proposal. I called it a job problem in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because that place of work, the main generator to say all the costs. Data that last year, with the last day of last year, 3,560 people were employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which 192 million converting marks were to be singled out. According to rebalancing data, 25 were employed in institutions at the mid-term this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9847	I ask you to listen to each other, I ask the messengers to listen to their colleague when he speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9848	About 3,700 people, and they are on an annual level, if they are to be burdened about the workplace budget of around 6o and some thousand marks. So, we have one trend in gathering jobs in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the forecast and employment dynamics in the next, by the end of this year in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, around 4,870 people will be employed, which is an increase of 1,300 people compared to the beginning of the year. Why did I supply this data? I think that this has been missed now in this rebalancing, but I believe that the draft budget for next year should be taken into account, that there is a far more critical relationship between the Council of Ministers towards giving consent to organisational acts, acts organised by institutions under which the Council of Ministers has jurisdiction under the law. Secondly, it is necessary to adopt the Law on Salaries and Other Labour Rights for all employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. Because it is also possible to see by superficial analysis that there is an extraordinary colour in both pay and any other rights that arise from working relationships. And thirdly, it would be very important that we have at least some analysis when we adopt these budgets. How much, therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, we contribute to further increasing public spending in Bosnia and Herzegovina or even how rational we are, possibly contributing to its reduction. What that means is that we should have an analysis that by forming certain institutions at Bosnia and Herzegovina level, how much this affects the similar similar institutions in entities, especially from the point of view of the reduction in numbers in the relevant entity institutions. And how much that could possibly affect the increase, that is, the reduction of the entity's budget burdens. This is very important, especially when in Bosnia and Herzegovina at this point we have a huge burden of national income on public spending in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9849	I thank Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9850	Mr. Chairman of the dom Nikola Špirić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9851	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests, you know that budget rebalancing was under discussion before we had a proposal to rebalance the budget, that Parliament had repeatedly asked the Council of Ministers to deliver budget rebalances so that we could all work within the framework of the law and spend within the framework of the law. Unfortunately, a long-standing debate was held between the Council of Ministers and the International Financial Institution, primarily the International Monetary Fund, and eventually after a difficult debate, there was the first draft budget rebalancing. He entered the parliamentary procedure and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament only 15 days ago or 20 days ago. And aware of the seriousness of the situation, aware that certain budget users such as the deminers, had not received a budget-based salary for 3 months, the colleagues of the House of Representatives cut deadlines for the budget rebalancing debate. Just because we're running out of time doesn't mean there can't be a debate. I have to say that I've been running live activity, and here I am taking the opportunity to thank the secretary of the vault who's here with his associates. So, we only talked before the amendment phase started. And I have to say, there's been a lot of understanding. Perhaps even more understanding than we parliamentarians have when Parliament's position and what Parliament has brought down in the world is. I must say that Parliament will bear a huge fight on Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. We must say to the public that we delegations from 7 to 12 members have, unfortunately, reduced us to three-member delegations, Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak or Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, and that this is not the dimension of parliamentary struggle, which will simply bring us closer to European and Euro-Atlantic integrations. That this was why not say the struggle for Parliament's position in the draft budget for next year. Well, that's our right, that's what we do if you want to make a commitment. I think we have to do this consciously and responsibly. So I am using the opportunity here, once again saying that I thank the Treasury Ministry for understanding, which has found an understanding not only for Parliament, but also for other budget users from and such scarce funds intended for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we were to say today whether this number of MPs can improve what is called the necessary reforms, we will come to the answer that it cannot and will probably have to increase in time, in order for this country to take bigger steps towards European and Euro-Atlantic integration. So, it's not ideal, it's not the best solution, but it was a solution that moved within the given means. And I think that's good, I think that we should support these proposals, the Commission's proposals for finance and budget, and since there have been no new amendments, I am taking the opportunity, therefore, because this has to be declared by the House of Peoples, that today simply after the vote in the first reading, it is my proposal to make a statement in the second reading, because there are no new amendments. And even if there was a need to penetrate these funds, it's impossible to win that battle, so there's no means. And I think this 27 job needs to be done today. Ask the House of People to also make a statement at the next session about the first and second readings. And to create a legal framework for the legal spending of funds not to Parliament but to other budgetary users who are waiting for rebalancing as a necessary need. So, I support, I don't want to open any other debates. We must also say for public reasons that we have 22 MPs from last term who have been receiving authority for a year. It is also that you should not be rebalanced as regards the cost of MPs this year, for this Parliament, if not for 500,000 or over 500,000 marks included, but that is, of course, our legal obligation. We are obliged to obey the laws we have passed. If we don't think they're good, we need to change them, or we need to shorten the time. And that's why I think it's a good day to make a statement about this rebalancing. You know I've been a fierce critic of how to make budgets, even rebalances. And today I'd use it if there was a chance we could change something. But if we don't do a useless job and the rebalance doesn't become a political tool that no one will benefit from, here I want to support today to adopt this rebalancing in both the first and second readings. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9852	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also joining the chairman, Mr Špirić, in the sense that we need to bring the budget and that a lot of work has been made until we have received practically this proposal. Parliament is responsible for the work of other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we must provide financial support to practically those institutions. Unfortunately, Mr. Džaferović spoke with the goal of putting emphasis or shadow on Parliament itself. And it would be good to analyse this budget rebalancing proposal, he may have noticed some kind of proportionality or disproportionateity in the sense that the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament is foreseen for its work 4.569.613,oo KM, and that I am taking it as a typical example of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina provided for 7.920.000,00 KM. Look at Parliament, its work on commissions, going abroad about the integration process... which we need to fulfill. At the same time, all the mechanism that the Assembly is launching to be successful and to make everything normally work in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is thanks to Parliament. And that is why I believe, when we talk about the Court and whether anyone has wondered how much they are, how much they pay in that Court. How many employees are there? If Mr. Džaferović wants to talk about morality, too. But, first of all, these amounts, do they have that kind of data. Whether these people, whether they have more resources, because the Court of Justice is their quality of work, the Court depends on the quality of the work of this Parliament, because we are passing a law under which the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina is acting and, in particular, any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 28 Whether an analysis of other salaries was made, and for this I would tell Mr. Džaferović that it would be good to advocate that the country should be prevented from the privatisation process of the robbery. Then, to advocate the adoption of a employment strategy, the opening of new jobs. Then I'd say his discussion is correct. This is one way to put it, maybe that classic left-wing old flossula that he still serves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9853	Thank you, I'd like to ask just a little bit. Of course, Džaferović will get a chance to replicate. I beg the messengers, please do so, I only ask you to listen. So it's about rebalancing. I ask MPs to discuss the principles rather than discuss each other's discussions. Is there a proposal for changes, corrections, changes whether there is a possibility that we can actually conduct a responsible debate. So, I'm asking future debaters, with my colleague Džaferović being replicated. To avoid replicas, to do a useful thing if possible on budget rebalancing. Thank you very much. I'm asking my colleague Džaferović to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9854	I mean, he mentioned my last name three times, so that's why I have a need for a very short time, so I have no intention of answering Mr. Gligorić to his political pranks or trying political pranks. So, that's the thing for me that I don't want to talk about here, but just Mr. Gligorić, I think the truth is this is that this budget rebalance covers those increased salaries from April this year. If that's not true, tell me. So it's true and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9855	I thank my colleague Džaferović, who continues to answer the word? Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9856	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I also support that, simply today, in the first and second readings, we conclude the review and adoption of the budget rebalancing, so that today we can give suggestions for drawing up the next draft budget by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, we should have had until 15 October if you remember to have already in the budget procedure for the next year 2004, unfortunately we will again have the prolonging of such a dynamic and in that sense I would have given some suggestions, and in the extreme case of questions that are, to which it is necessary to answer. Namely, how can it happen that, for example, the Office of Simeon breaks the budget by 322 means 322 percent of the budget increase for the current year 2003, and that is the rebalancing. You have a few more such dramatic items. But not to repeat them. That's right. Which means 29 objectively from where the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments 193 percent etc. etc. If we're going to take the air force here as a normal increase for reasons justified, etc. Where do you plan the presidency so it can increase the number of workers by 40 people, by 58, 98. If you read this report, 40 workers are forecasting an increase in Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency. I ask you that if we can't observe in such a way what happens in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Presidency and we are the last instance to adopt budget rebalancing, then it's easy to discuss. So, I propose that the Council of Ministers take the current budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the end of the analysis and not allow for this kind of behaviour by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the next 2004 budget. I only analyzed one item. Look at the contractual obligations there. These are contractual transactions concluded with private companies of individuals in order to carry out occasional transactions. They've been breached everywhere. Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, CIPS project, etc., etc. Millions of figures and sums. So who needs such expert services, or favors on the side. That we don't just have enough of our domestics just this, capacity etc. So, people, this is very controversial but I suggest what the chairman says to make these suggestions for the next 2004 budget and to take this into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9857	I thank my colleague Avdić, I think these are useful suggestions and that only in such a way can he access the budget for next year. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to a plea. Who is it, to accept the Budget Rebalancing Proposal, which we have received with the accepted amendments of the Finance and Budget Commission? So we vote in the first reading. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I figure we're with as many votes as we can. So I find that of the 37 MPs present, 34, 3 were abstentions. I agree that we adopted the proposal for budget rebalancing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2003 in the first reading. There's no need for an entity statement. 30 I ask you who's in favor of going to another reading about the Rebalancing Proposal? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There's no one here. Thank you. So, we made a unanimous decision to hold a debate in the second reading on the rebalancing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2003. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it for, in the second reading, to accept the rebalancing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, ladies and gentlemen, I agree after the debate in the first and second readings along with the amendments adopted, the embedded amendments of the Finance and Budget Commission, of the 37 MPs for the number of 34, there were no 3 abstentions. I therefore conclude that we adopted the draft amending and supplementing the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003. Thank you. We're moving on to the 8th item of the agenda. A.d. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH institutions' budget law and international commitments for 2003, the first reading set out the same deadlines for reviewing the first draft of the law and for the proposal for amending and supplementing the budget. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 20 October. The committee's report was delivered to us on 21 October. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who, then, is it to accept the draft law and law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2003 in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. 31 I thank you, therefore, that we unanimously accepted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2003 in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the same principle as for budget rebalancing, that since this law has no amendments, let us also be clear in the second reading, because this is a law that follows the adopted budget rebalancing. Who's in favor of joining us to plead on the second round? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I thank you, so we have made a decision to hold the debate in the second reading of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to definitely make a statement. Who is it for us to adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2003? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget of the international obligations for 2003. Moving to agenda nine, that's A.D. nine. The proposal for a Law on Freedom of Faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading is a Council of Ministers. It was sent to Members on 3 July 2003, the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 28 July 2003 and the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Commission's report was sent to MEPs on 14 October 2003. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I conclude, Mr. Jozo Križanović, go ahead. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9858	Ladies and gentlemen, imported colleagues and colleagues, so before I say anything about this bill, I would like to point out that the Social Democratic Party supports the adoption of the Law on Freedom of Faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mostly because the existing law was passed 27 years ago, and in many ways, so far it has been overcome. I would also like to point out that it is good that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Inter-religious Council has done a draft of this law and that our respective Ministry has passed this into the bill, but we also believe that it is necessary on the law, given its importance for the achievement of individual and collective rights and freedoms, it also considers that other religious communities that have not been involved in the work of the Inter-religious Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as many NGOs, political and social structures. The proposed text of the law refers exclusively to freedom of faith, while in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 1 point 3 speaks of freedom of thought, conscience and faith and in the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms of Freedom of Mind and Faith. Thus, in the basic provisions of the law, it was necessary to regulate what is meant by freedom of conscience, religion, and religious communities should not prevent other communities or citizens without religious belief in the free, public manifestation of faith or other beliefs. For the relationship between religion, religious communities and democracy, it is important to keep citizens free, to have this or that religious belief, that this belief changes or even does not believe. In the proposed text of the law, we believe that it is characteristic that when new religions are created, they come from a certain quorum, i.e. the number of followers, followers. And what is important is also to point out, it comes from the historical presence of religions, certain regions in the country. We believe that this can bring certain misunderstandings and present even one situation where alternative religion in particular new religious movements can be seen as an obsession and threat under the supposed purity of identity to say the majority religious communities. So it is problematic in the law to determine the necessary number of founders of a religious community, because we believe that the world’s mirrors and values do not mean how many supporters there are. It already comes from the fact that we have different worlds and values even if one individual follows them. We believe that, for example, being Isus, being Muhamed at a time when they created and preached their faith did not have as many supporters as our law requires. Isus had how you knew 12 apostles. If we want to build a turkey society, then we have to go after the affirmation of the world state, i.e. for the model of separation of the state and the religious community. The state must lead a neutral policy towards all religious communities and protect religious prularism. 33 Therefore, the public place of religion and religious communities is not state or politics, but civil society.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9859	I'd like to hear from you and the debaters to take care of the weather. Please let us listen, be quiet and ask Mr. Joza to speak louder.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9860	Can't you really hear it?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9861	You can't hear it, but here, please. I'm asking you without throwing away, to listen to Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9863	I suggest that Mr. Avdić thank Mr. Raguž for knowing his views through this one I present. So, since I'm going to realize that I don't have the right to speak any further, I consider this a very important topic, an important law, sensitive to the society we live in. And I'm disappointed with your relationship to this subject. And yet I'm going to use the convention only to point out some shortcomings in certain articles of the law. So we believe that in the name of the law instead of freedom of faith, it should stand – freedom of religion. Because it's a worldview. This term is used in all international conventions relating to religious freedoms. Article 2 paragraph 3 of the Law provides for the definition of a religious community. It is a legitimate question whether the state should even engage in defining, determining and determining what a religious community is. The particular question is whether the state should recognise the subtitivity of the religious community. Article 5(2) and Article 20(1) of the Law provide for a ban on attacks and insults by a religious official, which is found to be a criminal offence, which is contrary to the principle of equality of citizens before the law. It's a new kind of fightlongolic. This is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In this article, please these are as far as I know the principles, I suggest, I criticize the principles on which the law is based. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9864	Please listen, when Mr. Križanović, don't throw it away, he'll have every chance if he wants to get a word to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9865	I suggest course one. I also forbid this article to quote "exploiting religious hatred against any church or religious community or its members", while nothing is said about challenging, supporting and calling for religious not tolerance and hatred. Article 12 of the Law provides for churches and religious communities to have the right to restitution of seized property. Of course, we also have nothing against restitution, we also advocate that it is necessary to pass the Restitution Act, but we are against the question of restitution and what it covers, not to be resolved by this law and thus to re-initiate this, possible solution that needs to be regulated by the Restitution Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9866	I thank Mr. Križanović. It seems to me that it is useful suggestions, that this law, since this is the law in the first reading, until the statement in the second reading, I think we should accept everything that improves the text, and especially what goes into the essence of the change. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Duraković, please. Dr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9867	I already agree with Joza's finding that we are very nonchalantly treating this very important and sensitive legislative proposal. And as far as I'm concerned, I would like this Parliament to plead on these proposals that Križanović made on behalf of his club. I think that each one is relevant and that it complements the envisaged legislative solutions to a great extent, especially as regards certain standard conventions and to say what is affecting the question of human rights and freedoms, European conventions and everything that regulates the issue of positions and faiths and faiths and religious communities and freedoms and religions and religions etc. Here are some shortcomings that he rightly pointed out, and I would suggest that we make a statement about what he suggested and then go to one another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9868	I thank Dr. Duraković, I would only ask that we try to help, since the amendment phase is over. If the Commission had already discussed it, part of the amendment was part of it. I, of course, have a mood if I have 35 to give as much as for the previous law maybe ten more days, so to try interventions that the Commission therefore, if Parliament agrees, does not take the opportunity to discuss it to anyone, but since I also appreciate that there are useful suggestions made by Mr Križanović, it seems to me that this could be the only way out now because that part of the amendment phase is over. So all we do is work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Did you have any false allegations, Mr. Križanović, supplemental. Can you listen, since it's still gonna be my guess, if it's about to happen and you're gonna have to give it to me so we don't run the bar. If you insist, there's no problem. So, that idea, yeah, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9869	If we really agree that this is a very sensitive and significant law for Bosnia and Herzegovina, I was going to finally propose to take advantage of the business possibility that here and at the end of the first reading, one public debate is whether, within the framework of the competent Commission, giving opportunity to NGOs and other religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to present their opinion on this bill. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9870	I thank my colleague Križanović, unfortunately this phase has passed, so we have to get out of this business now. He asked for the word Mr. Novaković, so Sead Palavrić. Please, so Mr. Ćeman. But please let's see now simply not open the debate, but simply come to the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9871	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, we all agree that this is a serious debate, and I do not believe that anyone here has had any unserious relations with this law, and I would like to say that the Commission has indeed been very responsible and serious about all the amendments it has received in the amendment phase, and that at that stage there was also a number of amendments that Mr Križanović has now spoken of here. I don't see now that we're in some kind of trouble that we need to get out of. I don't see it. So, I don't agree with the chairman that we're in the middle of a problem that we need to get out of. The majority of Mr Križanović's amendments when we discussed them were rejected because it was already contained in another member of the law. So he's already been treated in some member, not in the one he suggested, he's in someone else. For this reason, most of these amendments were rejected by Mr Križanović. Mr Križanović had the possibility that 48 hours, therefore, before the beginning of this plenary session, he would repeat all the amendments he was talking about here, so to repeat them, deliver them and defend them at the House in the second reading. The only thing I can accept here is some possibility that what he didn't take advantage of us would allow him to take advantage of it. So by no 36, I know either of them as a member of 94, so let's now take this 3 point b there, although that's hard, but here's to take or 3 point a) so let's say here's Mr. Križanović has the opportunity to repeat the amendments that haven't passed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And he already told them here in his presentation. And I don't mind, so let's do it that way, if the others agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9872	Thank you, colleague Novaković. It's true that business procedures are like this. Please, nice. So we're looking for a simple colleague, Novaković, is right. So Parliament can allow it to make a decision and say that it is simply a decision to solve this problem, but I ask all MPs to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I see no problem here. Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9873	Let me just say that there is room for the president's proposal to extend the 10-day deadline for the amendment. And because of what Mr. Križanović said when it comes to the name of the law and I contribute, I add more points to think. I think that regardless of the definition of church, mosque and religious community, it may even be a reflection of the intolerance or not of the habit of saying the position, the legal position of churches or religious communities. Is it okay to introduce the mosque under the terms of a church or a religious community, let us think a little bit more about these 10 days, and whether it is called the Law of Freedom of Faith or as Mr Križanović pointed out when it comes to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms? And if we accept that the name of the law is not adequate, then normally we have to consistently correct some members. And with that, I would really like to appeal to be given the opportunity of another 10 days for amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9874	Ladies and gentlemen, today we can agree that the law, the principles in the law, be adopted in the first reading, and that amendments are submitted only for some new moments that we will have in the second reading. So what was out of the question. It's the only business option. So, to be clear, to accept the principles on which the law was made, and at what point someone has some new moments that have not been considered, to define itself through amendments. Mr. Belkić answered for his word, please, so Mr. Ćeman did.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9875	Here, Mr. Chairman, you have proposed this variant if it comes to new amendments, etc. I would be more inclined to try to give Parliament the power to decide 37 amendments Mr Križanović has made or brought to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I would not now comment and reproduce that it was all there, what was, the matter of the Rules of Procedure and the matter of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. But I think it would be very important because everyone said that they were important things, that this home was determined, that it wasn't just for 9 people. So, I have a feeling that Mr. Križanović has made a procedural mistake of this, made not understanding that he will not be able to today with amendments counting that this is the first reading, so until the second reading will be able to amend, etc. So, I'm inclined, so we didn't talk about Mr. Križanović if you submitted the amendments you were talking about here?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9876	It's all business here. Please, we don't have an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9877	So, I am in favour of extending this to what Novaković was talking about, that is, trying to find a foothold in this Article 94rd point 3a) to find and to extend the possibility of Mr Križanović coming out with these amendments he was talking about. Because we would reduce the possibility of a debate if we went to this variant.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9878	I thank my colleague Belkić, so we must apply the Rules of Procedure as well as any law. The amendment phase has been completed and some of the amendments have been incorporated into the text of this law. Today we are talking about a law in principles where principles and principles can challenge. That's what Mr. Križanović used. If someone thinks that there are aspects that we did not have in mind, and that does not prevent Mr. Križanović from defining those amendments in the second reading and making a positive statement about them. So there's no dispute here. It's just, we just have to conduct a business discussion until the second reading. So there's a mood, we'll see when we come forward. Thank you very much, and in that sense, I think it would be useful to bring the debate into question. The gentleman asked, Mr. Ćeman's word and there's no one else reported for debate. But there is, therefore, a order of this law as it should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9879	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have been thinking while, during this debate, whether, in the capacity of the authorised rapporteur, I should say the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and you could see this in all our reports, it was authorized by someone on behalf of the committees responsible to comment on the report. So, I've been thinking about whether or not there's a need for me to report to that whole thing. Finally, colleagues who had previously reported to be discussing were some of the things that made sense to say about a report that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 38, had already been said, and I did not report in this capacity. So, procedurally, and these other possibilities or dilemmas we've heard here, they're less clear, and we of course need to define ourselves. I wanted, however, to say as a member of this house, and we are talking about principles, principles on which the law is based, our view of these issues. In this law, I have recognized several principles that have at least been tried to be elaborated through the text of the law that we are talking about. One of the principles, and this is also mentioned in the explanation, is the principle of saying the single legal framework for this issue treated by this law. Of course, it can now be discussed whether these solutions, in the light of the amendments to the Constitutional-Law Commission, give a single legal framework, and at least I can say that I agree with the proposed and finally support that this is given a uniquely strong framework, for Bosnia and Herzegovina in Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore. I know in some initial stages when, and let me put it in some other quality known, and not as a member of this Parliament, I can even say as a citizen of this country, I know that there was even an expert dilemma, whether one of these laws or one of these laws should be passed, or the rights and rights for believers, or the right to freedom of faith or freedom not to believe, can be drawn directly from conventions, declarations and other legal documents that are binding in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I myself, as I can now say on the side of those who think it makes sense despite having conventions that directly commit and the right to believe or not to believe is one of the fundamental human rights. So it makes sense to pass a special law that would settle some specific questions, if for no practical reason and here is a single legal framework in this area. The second principle, the second principle, is equalising rights and obligations without discrimination. Of course, it can also be discussed whether these solutions offered through the initial text of the law and amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission mean this. I'm inclined to argue, so I supported the bill's proposal that, at the very least, here's to relativizing a little bit, and there's no principle, there are no provisions that question this principle that are not equal rights and obligations, etc. I can be theoretically, here's to now, with the apology of my colleague Križanović, I say, whether she's 300 or I don't know this other number that's being asked for some new community, it's acceptable and making a parallel of whether Isus Christ started as one, and then had those 12, or whether any idea could finally start from one, etc. From that point of view, it may also have logic, but on the other hand it is not seen from the text of the law that on this basis it wants to disqualify the right of others to think differently from both traditional and already existing religious communities, nor is this requirement affecting the freedom of conscience, faith, etc., etc. This 300 figure is some kind of at least I understood it so well the credentials and procedural possibilities that say this, that for that part of the administration that needs to be implemented there is some kind of condition this regulation does not in any way question others to be a member or not a member of any religious community, association, etc. 39 But I understand it, and I accept it can argue. The next principle is the principle that says that religious communities are historically founded, so they are namedly listed. Either way, it doesn't matter now, here's the Islamic community, the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, the Jewish community, etc. They're apostrophe here. Watch one thing. Believe me, when I first read this in this text of the law, I was associated with the next thing. Some general acts, or here you're right about this, of the Constitution, etc. Sometimes, in some of their provisions, they go into historical terms to say, established values, some organizations, some associations, etc., by establishing them or by realizing them in no way whatsoever from other provisions, does not mean favoring it, because one of the principles that is incorporated into this law is also one of the principles, that according to this law, of course neither to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina which is as it is applicable nor to other laws, there is no state faith in Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is no state religious community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor is there any religious community now existing, traditional or any one that is here to say so. Or which is to come tomorrow, has the right to take the lead in the position of state faith, state organisations, etc. In that sense, I think the defense principle of this, which was originally, which was very important and that in this way is not really being questioned by this, at least that's how I share the rights of others or the advocacy of others. So this is one finding as it is going to be that no one really understands me as malignancy maybe in 100 or 1,000 years some now- existing minor religious community that is not traditional, is in some laws that someone else will once pass on a planetary level, perhaps historically treated as, historically confirmed, founded, etc. I mean, so here's one thing we're just saying without extracting any special rights for members of these traditional religious communities compared to others. That's my understanding of what we're talking about. Furthermore, when I said that there was a dilemma about whether or not this law should be passed, then at all, the question can really be asked, whether this law treats all issues of freedom of conscience, opinions, etc. Or this is what we'd say and this is a lexicalist that treats matters of faith. Of course, the theoretical question is, I do not dispute that here distinguished gentlemen professors and others can now ask the matter and not only from the legal but also practical aspect, whether the question of faith and the question of conscience can at all separate, separate treatment, separate norms, etc. I'm willing to harden and yes and no, but here is the approach to treat the question and the religious communities. That is, I have read as well as you comments that they are closely bound, but let's let it be quite unburdened thinking and understanding, that it is closely bound, but that it doesn't have to be treated by the same act, because we have a general act, which is the constitution of the first law, which in fact both the second and third norms, i.e. guarantees etc. And here I have finally recorded to myself, but I have already said so, a valid principle is no state faith or state religious community. It's a fundamental thing to say hello, of course. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that Bosnia and Herzegovina is now a complex state but primarily a complex society in the positive sense of the word. A complex 40 society which, of course, includes this law should defend and protect and the complexity of this society here and everywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is my contribution, therefore, as a member of this House, to the discussion on the general principles of this law. In the amendment phase that I am not going into it, there is already a colleague, Belkić, and some other members who have discussed here, while members of the Constitutional Commission have also said that we have also had a number of amendments from respected colleagues who have not been accepted, other procedural options remain for which this home can decide what will happen to them below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9880	I thank my colleague, Ćeman, for Mr. Duraković's request, did he?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9881	It's not a classic replica, it's just a clarification of Mirsada. I'm sorry I wasn't on that committee when we discussed it, but anyway, it's up to me. But they pick pears and apples, I think. There's nothing to say about some state religion, state religion, etc. I guess we're a constitutional secular state. It's supposed to go back to the beginning, and it's on the human and civil rights corps and freedom where it's meant to be one of the fundamental rights of freedom of religion and religion and all that. Next, they don't have any traditional or newly-roasted religions. I don't think I'm going to lecture on Christianity now... you have 44 basic directions, the basic sect is whether, starting with the division of Catholicism and Protestantism, anabaticism, Calvinism, and to Jehovah's Witnesses etc. I don't want to talk about it now. In Islam, too, it's not as simple as whether, starting with a fundamental division, to the Wahhabi and other directions and sects as in any religion. In Jewish religion you have at least 30 and some different sects and directions, etc. Here during the Austrian-Hungarian, here on the shore up just a little bit go you have the great church which today is the Academy of Arts, it's adventivistic whether, which 150 years ago has respected this diversity, charmism, right to choice, right and freedom to religion and religion etc. So I figured out these suggestions that Jozo made in that direction, to think about it a little bit, not to be able to conditionalally say monopolist, traditionalistic. When Suada says you need to treat the mosque. Theoretically and practically and by Islam, the mosque is the same as the church, and it can never be the Islamic mosque to say, as the Catholic Church can be, because the mosque by Islam is not all about the object, it's just a place to pray, etc. So you're wrong about Suada, you need to study it extensively, you need to see a little bit. I suggest that this proposal, which has already been given to protect itself, would not be given for 10 days to explain these subtle things, and that we have little opportunity to think about it better, and to pass a really real law that would correspond first of all to the European Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9882	I thank Dr. Duraković, Mr. Ćeman's replica. I'm only asking for a short while and to successfully bring this debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9883	In fact, it's not a replica, it's a better understanding. When I mentioned it, therefore, according to my understanding, the principle that there is no state faith and state church, or state religious community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor should it be. I just wanted to say to be honest, I had some to say here are the comments that in the meantime to mention traditional religious communities, whether it's justified, whether it's justified, perceived as some kind of inauguration of those four religious communities as some kind of state religious communities, religion, etc. Mine, I just wanted to say that my understanding of it is not that way and that really if there is a need to stress it even more directly, there is no in Bosnia and Herzegovina nor is it real, nor should any religious community be traditional, not traditional, etc. get state church status, state religion. And you also know that in a number of countries today in the world, the corrosive decrees of such definitions have, at least with that content, that meaning. If not directly shaped like that. In that sense, professors that only this one, so we understand, is not any particular replica, but simply to understand what we mean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9884	I thank you. It's right for those of you who think you should sit down and talk about everything, but we don't do it from the pay phone right now. The word was requested by the vice-president, Mr. Raguž, and no more reporting for discussion. I'm asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9885	Thank you very much, here's why you wouldn't agree with those of you who say we've easily accessed this law. It doesn't mean he's good and perfect, of course there's room for things to be fixed, I think it was us who put up with a dozen amendments in the procedure, fought for them, for some of us not. I think we should stick to the procedure, and if there are reasonable reasons to consider this, and the arguments, to fix the text, always and that possibility should be used. So, I personally consider the clue to what Mr. Ćeman as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been saying, that the very important principles necessary for the adoption of one such law and corporine are absolute in the text of this law. And if we can't lose that thread here when we're discussing the law so that the public doesn't get the wrong impression about this House. I think a great effort has been made both by the Inter-Religious Council and by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and by the Council of Ministers and 42 of the MPs, that does not mean it is perfect. We can keep it going, but I'd like that dimension to be present here, because that's really how it is. And we are now in one procedure that is clear and clear. If there is a need for repairs to work there on the trail of European conventions, which we are obliged to respect, and where perhaps the matter is not satisfied, let's see that too. But to get the impression that the law is not thoroughly eloquent, consulted both with associations and with NGOs and with the Interreligious Council. I don't think that position can really stand. So the second principle that is very important is that this matter by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that in the same way these rights are treated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a very important and non-discriminatory principle that I think is absolutely satisfied in this law, which is also important to affirm. We can also see now in this section of which Mr. Križanović and Mr. Duraković must have arguments in that direction. Let's see if it's necessary to open an extra one, and let's just keep fixing it. I and this one can also accept this principle by not damaging the image of a big job done by this law, and the very quality solutions found in this law. I think I am obliged to say so, and as far as the law itself is called on the trail of what Mrs. Palavrić was saying, in part, Mr. Durakovć replied. So this is the name for churches, this is not the name of physical objects, and I think it fully satisfies the argument and puts all churches or religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina into the same status and there is no need for its correction. I think he's completely grounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9886	I thank Mr. Raguž, who continues to answer the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the argument. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we speak out on the principles, so on this law in the first reading, and there remains time and space, please club presidents, presupposing that in one tolerated atmosphere, taking into account everything that is said today in the second reading, we simply reach a political agreement, that all that is useful to improve the text of the law, that we accept it. Who is it, to accept the Proposal for a Law on Freedom of Faith and the legal position of Churches of Yver Communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen, so 33 people present, 30 voted for, three were abstentions, none. I agree that we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Freedom of Faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. 43 Moving to the 10th item of the agenda is A.D. 10. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between the Council of the Ninisters of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a report from our Foreign Affairs Commission, foreign affairs, regarding, and here we have received a positive report from that commission that you have on the table. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I ask you who is for this, to ratify, to give consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? No, I konstatovati, ladies and gentlemen, that we unanimously agreed on ratification. Please sit down a little bit longer. For ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Moldova. At this point, we would conclude today's meeting of the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, noting that we will have the next session very quickly, with all legislative projects that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are being prepared. But before I check out the session, the word was requested by Seaka Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9887	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you know yesterday the first president of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency was buried. I am taking this opportunity to inform you, those who want and invite us to go to the Kovači Kovač and honor President Izetbegovic at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-23-0.u9888	Ladies and gentlemen, the session is over. Expect a very quick call for the next session with the agenda. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 2:45 p.m.
