ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8907	...respected guests, I am opening the 17th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you all. I welcome, of course, members of the BiH Council, who are attending today's session, representatives of international organisations and embassies, who are also present at today's session. I find that the 17th session of the House of Representatives of the Parlamnetarian Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is present at the moment attended by 41-one 35 MPs, so that the House of Representatives has the conditions for full work and decision-making. Today's session is not attended by gentlemen: Hasan Muratović, who is on the official road to Malaysia, Mr Abdulah Nakaš, whose arrival we expect. He announced his arrival at today's session with a small delay due to work obligations, which he is professionally performing. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, who announced the absence and justified the absence of today's session, Mr. Mišić Nenad, who justified the absence from today's session. Mr. Gligorić Tihomir, who justified the absence of today's session and announced the possibility of arriving during its work and Mr. Jusufović Munib, who also justified the absence from today's session. So, in the O.R., according to the section report, there are actually 34 MPs, not 35. So, I'm sorry, here, I was warned to make amends to what I said. In the hall, at the session, there it is, as well, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and I welcome him on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Presidential House. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a draft agenda in the invitation for today's session. However, as the practice has already become in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with the desire to put laws on the agenda as quickly as possible, several legislative acts have arrived, from the moment you are called for today's session to the moment of the session. These are three from the Council of Ministers and one of Filip Andrić's MPs, with requests to be considered by an urgent procedure. Therefore, there is a requirement for two legislative proposals to be considered in accordance with Article 105 and for two to be considered under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. 2 Our continuing practice so far has been, and will be in the future, that, before the House session is held a session of the Colleges in an extended composition, in order to finally agree and agree on the agenda of the House. That's how it was this time. Yesterday afternoon, we had a session of the Colleges in an extended composition. At the session, among other things, we discussed the issue of complementarity of the already proposed agenda, including these requests by the Council of Ministers and MP Andrić for the review of the proposed laws under emergency procedure. The extended college agreed to include four more points of the agenda, which are: 1. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for an emergency communication law, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 2. The request of MP Filip Andirć to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions of BiH, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 3. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for an Aviation Law of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In addition to these points, the College of the House, therefore, the Vice-Presidents and Chairmans of Mr Špirić, Raguž and I, we propose that it be placed on the agenda and we will vote on this special issue of consent for the ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications, which relate to higher education in the European region. You've got a new agenda proposal on the bench, so the one that's agreed to the extended college. You have also heard a proposal from the College for the inclusion of this Convention and, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Here you go. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8908	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, it is perfectly natural for the agenda to be upgraded to the last moment and some things have changed in relation to the Extended College, but I would like to ask and propose a statement on two points on this occasion. Namely, let me remind you, June 27th, O.G. At that session of this house, I am in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure, by which the House of Representatives lays down political guidelines to be implemented by the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions, proposed a resolution on the suspension of the personal incomes of elected officials in executive 3 and legislative authority and the repeal of earlier decisions, which are contrary to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2003. At the presidencies of the chairman, this House adopted the conclusion that the resolution does not then go to the agenda of the meeting, but rather to the relevant committees. I remind you, it's been 40 days since. In a way, this region is four times what was proposed to stop something that later escalated even more. Unfortunately, I haven't been invited to any commission until today. This morning I learned that it had gone to the Administrative Commission and, it is evident that this resolution is now being managed administratively. If we add to the fact that in the previous 40 days things have escalated further, then I, Mr. Chairman, would ask or to put this on the agenda today, if the commission hadn't been manifested so far, had 40 days to manifest itself or to give me a proper explanation, which would convince us that we should do differently, therefore more clearly as the day that this resolution is clear, completely. It speaks of things that are unnecessarily held in public for 40 days of debate unnecessarily from the point of view of this house, because this home is presented in public as one branch institution, which is only important that its elected deputies and MPs have as much pay as possible, we don't need it and that's not so when the entire House is in question. That's why I'd ask, so one. Mr. Chairman, if you'd like to put this on the agenda today, so that we can read about this and get the farce off the agenda, that's one thing, two. I'm sorry, I'm going to quote the minutes that we're going to adopt on the next one, under the next one, but I have to quote it, because it's not as controversial as the introduction to my intervention on the agenda, because it's now being discussed on the agenda, before we move to the agenda. In the minutes of the 15th session extended, under point 24, the Council of Ministers concluded on the information relating to Corridor 5C. Point 2 concludes that the House finds that the construction of 5C corridors of exceptional importance for BiH and requires the Council of Ministers that Parliament be regularly, underlining, regularly informed about the activities on the project. I believe that there are more than enough conditions for us to inform ourselves today, in accordance with this conclusion, of what is going on on that plan. That it is thus confirming Mr. Andrić's request to include this under point 4. But why am I saying this? I want to be precise, it is not usual for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to communicate through the media with the Director of the World Bank without Parliament being informed. We were able to find out from the media that the World Bank has offered to finance a feasibility study for Project 5C, we've learned that from the media. I therefore ask 4 to include at today's session the information on which the chairman of the Council of Ministers will inform us about what is going on with the feasibility study from the point of view that is present today in the media. Let me remind you, the public knows what I'm talking about. The World Bank has offered the BiH state to finance a feasibility study in which, according to international standards, the BiH state would own that feasibility study, the state would run the whole process and the state would be the owner of a feasibility study, which should answer the question when, why and under what conditions should work. It's perfectly natural that there's a possibility that someone else is doing it, but it's obvious that what we talked about last time was being left to a partner in Bosnian Malaysian to finance and do that study, which is good that we don't have the money to study. The World Bank offered that, the chairman of the Council of Ministers refused it through newspapers. I responsibly argue that in no country in the world the president of the Council of Ministers can do so through the media without informing his country's parliament. And that's why I'm asking that we put this information in today, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is being made clear to us and to tell us what it is. I am responsibly saying that it is going in the wrong direction and that this is how the whole project is being challenged and, therefore, Mr. Chairman, I am asking you to talk about this, as serious people today, because I am afraid that this is the way things are going in the wrong direction, which will result in any attempt to access the project corridor 5C in a normal way, and that as a result of all this, we only have a new mess between us, and we don't need that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8909	Thank you. I would ask my fellow Members to stick to the discussion on the occasion of the draft agenda. I, of course, didn't want to interrupt any MPs who went outside that box, and if I had the chance to be qualified and how I shouldn't, but here I am asking you to stick to these three minutes. These proposals will, of course, be put to the vote. Just Mr. Lagumdžija, one brief intervention. I am sorry that I have to intervene, not on the proposal of the chairman of the House referred the resolution to the committee, but it would be more correct if it were spoken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the House decided to deliver the resolution to the commission, and I will give clarifications in detail later, when I look back at all these proposals that have been made. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, please continue, who would like to participate in the debate on the agenda. Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8910	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, no matter what the Expansive College has agreed to, let me say, put in the agenda of the additional agenda, I don't think we should let ourselves be humiliated. How can you expect MPs now to hold a debate on any of this proposed agenda, meaning specifically, of this additional item of the agenda, when, in principle, they do not have any materials on them. So, really, if it's urgent this time, let me say, I can forgive and vote, but believe me, I'll never vote for anything that 5 additional is put on the agenda without MPs having those materials in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8911	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Who further wants to take part in the debate, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8912	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it is good that on this matter, opened by Mr. Jovanović, I say the position of the Council of Ministers. We, listening to the discussions that you have had in the last few months, when the laws under emergency procedure have been discussed, under Article 105, feel that this is how you lose your basic right to discuss the law and to correct it, etc. The Council of Ministers has decided that we will not send any legislation in the future by emergency procedure, under Article 105. We have defined ourselves for this shortened procedure, under Article 104, because it allows every MP to intervene in the law, but still reduces deadlines. I don't think this country is in a position to discuss legal regulations under normal procedure, which means three to four months of debate. I would ask that you, as we understand you, understand that you too understand the Council of Ministers and that you accept this way of reviewing the legal rules under a reduced procedure, I again underline, is the basic motive, because, however, we do not have that much time to complete the normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8913	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Who else wants to take part in the agenda debate? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am concluding a debate on the agenda. Before we move to a plea, a brief, therefore, commentary of the proposal. In fact, an urgent comment, which I must present as chairman, and give answers to some questions. Therefore, the College proposed to be classified as the 11th item of the agenda, giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications, relating to higher education in the European region, and that is, therefore, the College's proposal. Mr Lagumdžija suggested that a resolution be included in the agenda, which he proposed at the previous session of this house, only that the public, therefore, know both you fellow Members and fellow Members. The College of the House of Representatives had this issue on the agenda and this resolution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, acting within the framework of its business and constitutional powers, and referred this matter to the committee in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the decision of this House. So there was no retention in the College. The College also delivered its part of the work with the House's request to the competent commission, which is, according to our rules of procedure, the Administrative Commission of this House. 6 I would love to hear someone from the management of the Administrative Commission, about this birding. Here, to the soul, there is no chairman commission, he's dropped out today, but whether he wants one of the deputies. Okay, do any of the deputies want to explain, the Vice-President of the Commission. What about the resolution? No one's answering for a word? So, the resolution wasn't on the Administrative Commission, it wasn't on the Administrative Commission, it was infomraic, and let the Administrative Commission explain why. In any case, Mr Lagumdžija requests that, despite the fact that the Commission has not given its statement on the resolution, votes on his proposal to include the resolution in today's agenda today's session and, I will put this proposal to the House's vote. You were going to say something, Mr. Lagumdžija. Sure, go ahead, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8914	Mr. Chairman, I've suggested that either this be included today or that there be some explanation to what it is that we commit ourselves to do within a reasonable time. I really don't want us all to get into a situation here to derogate our own decision, or it would be even more embarrassing for this parliament to refuse to include this resolution. That is why I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that you, as a College, consult so that you can suggest something or, today, that it is debated that we do not vote or commit to the House's conclusion that until the next session, the Commission must do so and that we will discuss it at the next session, regardless of whether the Commission does so. So, don't make a political farce out of it. I suggest you do it again, and by the way, I don't think it's right for us to be denied for an answer in these cases. I, once again chairman of the Council of Ministers, say. I asked you for information. You didn't show yourself on my proposal. You'll eventually have to answer the questions I asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8915	Please, we've concluded a debate on the agenda. Mr. Lagumdžija, you went out to give a business intervention and then you added something to that intervention that is now causing further debate, which is why I now have to give the word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I beg you, stick to the Rules of Procedure. Come on, guys, we're gonna get to all the points that we're going to discuss, but when it comes to the agenda, we're going to bring this in as soon as possible before the end, so we can be rational, please. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8916	Well, here, looks like old practice's going on. Representative Lagumdžija, at the beginning of the session, while the cameras are on, looking for information on the line, the cameras are gone, there's no representative of Lagumdžija. This is the fourth time that's happened. I have to admit that I didn't realize that the question was asked to me, because if I realized that the question was asked to me, I would be happy to answer that question. As far as I can tell, Agent Lagumdžija asked the chairman of the dom to put it on the agenda. But here, by the time I got out, I must admit that, in addition to reading the newspaper, there is a correspondence between the seven Council of Ministers chairmans and all those institutions you speak of and in one normal correspondence I received a letter from the World Bank and responded in a normal correspondence to that letter, and only then did I appear in the media. The World Bank does not allow BiH to do a feasibility study. The World Bank lends credit to BiH to do the physibilities of the study, which are two extremely different concepts. The Council of Ministers accepted the idea and with the form of Bosmal we try to get to the realization of Corridor 5C, in a way that in the next four months, they provide 300m euros, from which complete project documentation would be financed, including primarily the physibilities of the study, and then an implementation project and provide funding for the purchase of land. So, at this point, the Council and I have informed the World Bank in writing, it is not able to negotiate with the World Bank on this, whether we will take this loan today, because we have already accepted a four-month deadline for Bosmal to bring funds from which to finance the feasibility of the study. So, not the chairman of the Council of Ministers refused, firstly it's not true that it's the World Bank's funds, but rather the loans that the World Bank would give, and it's interesting in all of this, that after the Council of Ministers' decision to accept the idea of Bosmal and to start only a half-fifteen days, the World Bank's offer is coming, here we would offer you credit funds to do a physibilit study. But it's no problem for me to deliver and deliver to the MPs and the letter of the World Bank and my reply to the letter of the World Bank and not just the World Bank, but everything that's going on, but Mr Lagumdžija knows very well what the co-ordination between the Council of Ministers and international institutions is. It's no problem for you to get every piece of paper, like information on your benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8917	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We're not going to have Mr. Lagumdžija in the middle of a debate. We'll vote on your proposal to put it on the agenda today. You'll get a chance to talk about it if we adopt it as a part of the agenda here. Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm not your mailman, I'm the chairman of the House of Representatives and the Post Office, if Bog don't think I'm going to do business, and especially at least I'm going to be your mailman. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija for the pay phone, so tell me what's going on, as if you knew that, past the Rules of Procedure, you provoked this debate. Please respond, you have a minute to respond to your reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8918	What Mr. Chairman said, I can't say what's not true, but what I said is not true. And, even if some of the things you've listed are true, and there are true things, obviously you need to inform this house about the things you've just mentioned. There's a question. Why didn't you answer the offer made by the World Bank to make the state the owner of the project documentation, based on which more and more work will be done, but you have passed on... an offer that no country in the world would refuse. It's not Mr. Terzić's credit classic, it's an IDA loan with a ten-year period, 0.% interest, 35 years of repayment, and Bosmal offers us, and Mr. Terzić Bosmal also offers us something that will be his property, but it offers us under commercial conditions and all of what you and I are now saying is, obviously enough reason for Parliament to know a little bit more about it, and for your information, I, unfortunately, don't know 8 how you had all the correspondence with the World Bank, and that right to tell you, it's not normal, as it's not normal for you to say things that aren't exactly behind this pay phone booth. If it were a part of the agenda, I would explicitly give you a manetogram of what you were saying without it being true.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8919	We'll vote on your proposal, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, we're moving on to a plea. I ask the MPs who are to respect the proposal of the College of this House as the 11th item of the agenda and to include the granting of consent to the ratification of the Convention on the recognition of qualifications relating to higher education in the European region? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House unanimously completed today's session agenda with the 11th point, which refers to granting consent to this document. As Mr Lagumdžija came out the second time for a pay phone, he explained the essence of his predicate, which was related to the resolution, and therefore the proposal to make this home mandatory to the Administrative Commission, that by the next session at the latest, is one of the alternatives that you have made, do your part of the job and inform the House of your position. I should say, personally, that there is no excuse for what the Administrative Commission has not done to this day. That is, therefore, my opinion, but, well, that's not so important, and I suggest we make a statement about this proposal. So, to conclude, to oblige the Administrative Commission to finally take its position by next session of the House and to inform this House in writing about the resolution, which was submitted by one of the MPs of this House. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Are there any abstentions? So, I find that the House unanimously, I apologize to the majority of the votes, with 3 abstentions, has reached a conclusion, which has obliged the Administrative Commission of this House to deliver its position and statement to the next session, in relation to the resolution, which was submitted by MP Zlatko Lagumdžija, which was sent to the Commission by the College of this House, on the basis of the decision of the House itself and we move on to the last proposal we could hear today in the debate, which is: Mr Lagumdžija's proposal to include, as a special item of the agenda of today's meeting, information from the Council of Ministers on activities related to Corridor 5C. 9 Who Is For That Proposal? Did you vote? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Did you count the votes? Are there any abstentions? Did you count the abstentions? Thank you very much. Give me the results. So 34 are present – 15 voted in favour – 9-8 voted against. So there is this general parliamentary majority. We're going after the entities. Who's from the Federation for? Did you count it? Who's from RS for? So, like this, from Federation of BiH 9 it was for – from RS it was 6 for. So no proposal has been adopted for inclusion in the agenda, going to the alignment. If I didn't have an advisor, Mr. Lagumdžija, believe me, I'd take you as my advisor to the Rules of Procedure exclusively, but I have an experienced lawyer, you know, so there's no need, you're too late. A brief alignment of the College and we'll move on. Of course, I'm not comfortable with this going into the agenda, so I can hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8920	I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8921	But we have the conclusion of this home that we should be regularly informed, I want, as a member of the College, to respect the conclusion, as a man who runs the College, to participate in the work of the College. At the last meeting of the House, we concluded it, and I don't want to conclude again what the conclusion of this home is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8922	It is true that this is the conclusion and we are in the last session and informed about it. Last time, we discussed the subject, or at one of the two previous sessions. We're not going to every session, and that's why I'm against it, but I'm saying, it doesn't have to be at every session, and it's totally fine, but here we are not getting along and we're going to conduct the procedure now. I ask the Federation MPs who is against this proposal? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I ask the MPs of the RS who is against this proposal? Thank you. Give me the results. After a statement after the consensus, I find that the Federation's opposition was 9 - which is not two-thirds. From the RS was against one, which was also not two-thirds and I find that Mr Lagumdžija's proposal passed, i.e. it was included in the agenda as the 12th item of the Council of Ministers' agenda on activities related to 10 corridor 5C, and that is the procedure to which we have spent more energy than it takes to get to what we have. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I declare today's session agenda as follows: 1. Record of the 15th and 16th session of House of Representatives 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for an emergency communication law, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. MP Filip Andrić's request to consider the amendment and supplementation of BiH's concession laws by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for an Aviation Law of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. A Consideration of the Document Security Policy of BiH, 8 / 8 Draft report on BiH Secretariat of GRECO, 9. Measures to ensure self-sustainable development of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office, following the conclusion of the House, adopted at the 12th session of 22.04.2003, 10. Information from the BiH Election Commission on the work of municipal electoral commissions and voter registration centres, 11. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications in Higher Education in the European region, 12. Information from the Council of Ministers on activities to build corridor 5C. So this is the agenda. We move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Records from the 15th and 16th session of the House of Representatives you received the minutes. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk about the records? Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8923	Dear Presidency, fellow ministers, MPs and esteemed ministers, In Point 18. 15th session of this house, it was proposed that the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, that, based on its conclusions and discussions at the session, I would add, which will become an integral part of the strategy once adopted by this House. Because it is very important that they become an integral part of the strategy. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8924	Thank you, Mrs. Ruža. Is there anyone else on the record? I think that this proposal by Mrs. Sopta is, in fact, in the spirit of what we have concluded at this session, because it would have no purpose to have our commission, and then Dom, when, hopefully at the next session, it is obvious that it is just so that it is not an integral part of what the strategy is. So I think we can adopt this remark. We're going to a record statement. I ask you who it is to adopt the minutes of the 15th session? Who's against it? Are there any glimmers? I understand that we unanimously adopted the 15th session record. We're moving on to a statement on record from the 16th session. Who's to adopt that record? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I also find that we unanimously adopted the record of the 16th session. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers, as you know, from the 16th session, we downloaded this agenda item. Meanwhile, a large number of answers to your questions have arrived. So the answers were received by MPs: Muhamed Moranjkić, who asked questions on the 10th, 11th and 13th sessions. Any comments, Mr. Moranjkić? There is. Here you go. A comment only on the answers, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8925	I understand, the question will go later. I basically got three answers to three questions and I better not, because what I got, this is really humiliating for the MPs, and I'm ashamed to be an MP in this House visa-visa response. The third answer, it's particularly lax. Please, look, 23 pages, I've been faxed twice, and I've been sent as material for the third time. In these 23 pages only on the page and a little bit touching issues, and the twenty-six pages, but there's no connection between people, someone took some material from the shelf and pushed it as a parliamentary question. I can't, Mr. Chairman, this is past everyone, I don't know what to say, beyond all standards. I seriously ask this parliament to question the issue of answering parliamentary questions. This is toying with this parliament, this is toying with MPs, and better, if this is how we're going to keep not setting up, to end this agenda point. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8926	Mirsad Ćeman received an answer to three questions, asked to the 12th and one set at the 15th session. Any comments, Mr. Ćeman? Mr. Ćeman has no comment. Mr. Filip Andrić received an answer to the question asked at the 11th session. Any comments? You have no comment. Mr. Nikola Špirić received an answer to the questions asked at the 13th session. Any comments from Nikola?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8927	I'm not satisfied. No comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8928	Well, that's already a comment if you're not satisfied. But, okay, so, you have a comment you're not satisfied with. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić is not present, we will ask him next time. Mr. Kragulj received an answer to the question, asked at the 13th session. Do you have a comment, Mr. Kragulj? You have no comment. Mr. Petar Kunić received an answer to the question asked at the 15th session. Any comments? There's a comment Mr. Petar Kunić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8929	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, I really think it is necessary to make a comment on these facts that are presented to my question. Look out, this is about 12,000 requests from persons from the Republic of Croatia, which are addressed to BiH and 6 000 people, as requested by RS. So these are the people who have met the conditions for retirement, but they can't achieve it. It's an eclectic example of human rights violations. I wish I had the answer when I asked this question, how many cases were solved. This is where the one responsible has not solved any of the cases, or competent institutions. We cannot be passive if 18,000 people are looking for a pension, and now it cannot be achieved because it worked in Croatia, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would therefore ask Parliament to conclude that the competent services are required by all competent institutions to seriously approach this problem and that it is indeed a threat to fundamental human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8930	Thank you, Mr. Krunić. 13 Mr. Milorad Živković received an answer to the question asked at the 15th session. Any comments, Mr. Živković? So that's the same thing. So those are the answers we got. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the point of this point under b) Asking MP questions first we will start from the College and we will go to this side right here, and then we will go up. That's some order now, 'cause last time we went like this, we changed things a little bit, didn't we? Mr. Nikola Špirić, vice-president, and on this side, you answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8931	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I have two questions, although I suppose fate will be similar to the other questions I have asked. You remember when, at the very beginning, somewhere in January this house was adopted by the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it was then the conclusion of this home that the Council of Ministers would come up with a budget rebalancing within 90 days, because we were aware that the budgetary framework did not satisfy all that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should do in the next period. Unfortunately, we are now in August of the month and it is hard to believe that by 1 September the Council of Ministers will, if it works this way, come up with a budget rebalance, making it difficult for both the financial and budgetary activities of the Commission when it comes to audit reports. I think that we, in principle, are leading the budget policy, have come up with a huge work by the Finance and Budget Commission against the audit reports. So I ask the question why did the Council of Ministers not honor the deadline for this conclusion at home? And second, what will this House do if this job is not finished by 1.9.2003? And a second parliamentary question. We've seen different witnesses these days. I'd say attempts by the mob and the hooligans to deal with people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The latest attack on the director of the Sarajevo brewery of Mr. Hilm Selimovće, for example on the owner of Mr. Stanić's meat industry, says that the security situation is not at the level at which it should be. That is why my question is addressed to the Minister of Security in Bosnia and Herzegovina – What will the ministry do to detect and sanction shareholders of the attack on the director of the Sarajevo brewery of Mr Hilmo Selimović, as well as the owner of the Stanić meat industry? 14 But, ladies and gentlemen, I am not asking this question to receive a protocol response, but to draw the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, attention to something called the calculation of different mafia circles, often supported and orchestrated media associations. So this is a serious question. We only gave meaning to this issue when it was an attack on the returnees. Right. But don't those people living in any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina deserve to be protected safe and that what sends an ugly message to the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not happening. And that's why I think this question deserves special attention and a special answer. I know that there will be an answer that the Ministry does not have those mechanisms and measures in the operational sense, but I think that the Ministry must issue a warrant to the Federal Ministry to determine those groups of individuals who stole this country and who are ready for various terrorist actions to create a name of fear in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to simply talk about those names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8932	Thank you. Next on this side, Mr. Suljkanović Mehmed. Just ask questions. Everything that isn't, which was said at the pay phone, and it's not written as if it wasn't said. Please be nice, only according to the written parliamentary questions will we act.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8933	I have three questions of which the first issue is related to new hydro-productive capacities and other projects which will shift water from one point to another, i.e. carry out appropriate water translation. The question is: Can the realisation of the Fatnička polje project, or the above horizons, threaten with the loss of water in the rivers Bregava, Buni and Bunica with catastrophic ecological consequences? In addition to the rivers mentioned, 400 live springs are in the area from Ljubinj, Stoca to Blagaja. It is the life of people in the municipalities of Ljubinje, Stolac, Blagaj and also in the part of Capljina. Experts say it is Hut's mud, which as a unique ecological space belongs to world heritage. That would be the first question. The second question is – Who is responsible for the operational implementation of the CIPS project and is the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolute Ministry, aware of what happens when citizens want to exercise the right to get a new ID card? It's about several hours of waiting in line, frequent system crashes, looking for some documents that are not always needed and 15 My third question - Is the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2003 done? And if so, when will Parliament remove this programme? Namely, the House of Representatives established a Labour Plan for 2003 and on several occasions sought the Council of Ministers' Work Programme to synchronise the work of the legislative and executive authorities. That would be the three questions. I gave it here and in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8934	Of course. Just hand over those written questions to the secretary. Mr Miloš Jovanović is the next to sign up with a request to ask a parliamentary question. Here you go. This is how we're going now. We'll be right there. There's nothing to write, there's how we're going down, so I'm going up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8935	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, - I would like to ask the leadership of the Assembly, or perhaps this service that deals with the security of this building do they know that the sessions of this home, or perhaps the meetings of committees, or even meetings of Members' clubs, are secretly recorded, for purposes, possibly meant for the purposes of some newspapers or journalists, or possibly some foreign or domestic intelligence services, so that probably at some point when they need to be used and misused? Why did I ask this question? I am the chairman of the Interparliamentary Union. We had a meeting in Room 3 on this floor. There weren't any journalists, there wasn't any of this technique. From that session it was all recorded, all transmitted as if it meant someone was and recorded in detail. So what doesn't matter, what the optional conversations are, it's passed over the list, I don't know if I'm going to rephrase it or not, I mean in an ugly context, means the list of days. Fortunately, I'm reading that paper, but when I came here to Sarajevo, they passed it on to me. So there are, so either being secretly recorded or secretly recorded by one of the MPs. I can tell you specifically that I would not like to name, I think I doubt one MP, because he, in that text, positively stated his story. That's what I'm going to say to the Commission, who I doubt, so let him prove he's not. I simply want to be answered by that question, otherwise I, in the future, mean when I lead such committees, will ask the Service to first search the MPs entering the Commission and to carry out a review that there is nothing attached somewhere. 16 I don't think it really makes any sense at all, and those who do this spying, I know that by watching these American movies that they're well paid, and I'm going to try really hard to deny them as much as I can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8936	Just give me a question so the Service can take it there. There you go. Next to this side, who's answering for a word to ask a question? On this side, there's no one else here. Mr. Sead Avdić. Let's go this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8937	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would also ask for the Council of Ministers' position at the request of the government of Serbia-Montenegro to move the border line between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro from the centre of Drina on the left bank, especially at the hydropower facilities of Zvornik hydropower plants, the Bajna Basta hydropower plant. The Drina River hydropotences must be common and belong to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. In this context, it is particularly important that information which and in whose name is exploited by these two hydro-energy facilities and whether these two hydro-energy objects are subject to the succession of the former SFRY. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8938	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. On this side we have Mr. Moranjkić, and let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8939	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the Council of Ministers, not as before as it has answered me, but to give me a serious answer and to write it to the following -- what are all current and former officials in power, whether executive or legislative, after learning the official authorities of the state from the canton municipalities to the top of this country involved in crime? Against whom are procedures conducted, against whom are they not? Because reading today's information funds is really terrible in this country. Along the way, I am looking for whom criminal charges have been filed at any level and against which the persons of the international community, including the United States, have initiated proceedings in any form, especially in the case of classical crime, drug trafficking and...toxic assets, the organisation and operation of the political mafia, terrorism, the robbery of the state and the people, 17 crime manipulations, a sign in the privatisation and robbery of all forms, including genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8940	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Get him ready. Who's upstairs next? Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8941	Before I ask the question, Mr. Chairman, I suggest that, on good faith, I suggest members of the Council of Ministers and inform the chairman that I have a third question behind him that you try to answer us at the council meetings of this House in accordance with Article 125. Rules of Procedure on all the questions you can immediately answer that we do not come to the situation in which Mr. Moranjkić came, that the administrative route to our questions answers us unmistakably. So I would ask that indeed, until now in this meeting, you have not answered questions once in accordance with Article 125. I think it would be a good practice for Mr. Džaferović to form at least until the next time you come in line for the chairman. My first question is - Why does the Council of Ministers tolerate the delay in introducing VAT that has been announced in some media? And in this light – what is the operational plan and programme with time limits and operators at the introduction of VAT no later than a year and a half from today, as the prolonged deadline reads? - And who authorised the Council of Ministers, if so, the presidents of the international community to inform the public about the delay in VAT implementation for 1.1.2006, which means that the reforms await 4 years and which of the domestic institutions is responsible for this delay? That's the first question. The second question - What does the Council of Ministers do to protect domestic meat producers and who is responsible for the announced imports of 9,000 tonnes of meat which have been processed by the processors to the benefit of the manufacturer, that is, instead of transferring the burden from the manufacturer to the processors, is there any measures in the Council of Ministers' plan to support the appropriate subsidy in co-operation with the entity ministries in order to bring both of them into a position needed by this country, because the announcement because the introduction of 9,000 tonnes of meat for processors means a new imposition of a trade deficit that has been increased by 30% compared to the same period last year? And the third question would ask someone on behalf of the Council of Ministers, this question is personally referred to by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I would like him today during the session until the end of this 18 to be transferred to him, to have his associates transfer it to him and possibly come here and answer this question. If I were him, I would answer - What does the chairman of the Council of Ministers know personally and did he do anything to meet and do about the terrorist attacks that took place in Sarajevo in the last 48 hours that Mr Špirić was talking about? Is the chairman of the Council of Ministers informed about it and what he knows and what he means to do to expose and sanction organised crime that has political and media sponsors over terrorist acts in which Stanić and Selimović's family have been killed for the time being? And so I join Mr Špirić's question in another way, chairing the Council of Ministers in the capital when something like that happens in a situation where the criminals you can see today that they are leaving the court intact after they have been on the run for months and when the message is given very clearly to this city that there is no police state here, but the police are not able to do their job, and some people from this parliament are attacking the leaders of police structures who are trying to do their jobs and thereby directly protect criminals the blackest in this country who, as you can see, are not overriding the bombs under family or family associations. This is the end of the world in every normal country and the reason for Parliament to be manifested and for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to inform this House and the public that something seems to be done, not to tolerate something like this in the way it is tolerated.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8942	Is there anything written? Go ahead, deliver it upstairs for this official table, Mr. Lagumdžija. Ma'am, Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8943	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, respected ministers, I had one question, so I would immediately clear up with him, after Mr. Špirić, Lagumdžija, literally on the same subject I would not, but I would give one sentence if comment was allowed on this. At the 13th session, I asked the Minister of the Interior of the Sarajevo County when man caused national and religious intolerance. The answer came to me that a man was punished by an article obstructing other people's property. It's like someone alienated the bike. And it's no wonder that things go on like this so we don't need to go on this topic of what was talking about these bomb states and things like that. My question is first, and it is said that through the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons in the Council of Ministers, we ask the minister of refugees and displaced persons of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that this ministry has made an intention in this year 19 to spend 11 million marks on direct care for refugees and exiled persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it's commendable to the gesture itself. However, a public invitation for the award of these donations is announced on 23 July, meaning 23 July, and the activities start with 16 July and the caller concludes with 30 July. So the man who wanted to apply wanted to come forward could have been informed first of July 23rd. And then, while in our haste administration, it collects the necessary paperwork, it comes in 30 and runs out of funds. I have to say, I have to show my doubts about who has treated the most sensitive population this way and in this way. I think he's mocking the action itself, and working within that ministry. I wish this wasn't true, so that's why I'm asking, and inside that question, there's another important element. This public call excludes two counties, which is the Posavina and Herzegovina-Neretva, where we expect, precisely in this year the biggest return of Hrvat. Why are they and to whom should these two counties be excluded? The second question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it concerns the question - How long has it been since the lighting up of the case under the quote of the late Minister Joza Leotar? In a special way, is there at least news of what's going on with that part of the money that's spilled out of the social register into a private pocket for someone or someone else's warrant, and here's the whole time we're discussing how much and how we're going to get paid so that we can protect, how much someone has a pension, etc., and someone who deals in murky actions elegantly drags his hand into the pocket of our taxpayers and that nicely per million marks or more, we don't even know how much. I've been informed it's a million dollars, and we don't know where it is. And I pray as part of this question – has anyone written a single sentence in the last six years with the dead Hrvat in Central Bosnia? All of this has been contained through one question to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8944	Okay. Next on this side, sir, is that you giving up, Mr. Andrić?? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now we're going up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8945	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, esteemed guests and esteemed ministers, I have one parliamentary initiative, according to the Croatian People's Club of Representatives in the House of Nardos of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 20 The initiative concerns the urgent submission of a constitutional assessment request before the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina – the decision of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council on the appointment of judges and prosecutors in the Herceg-Bosnian County. In this decision, the Constitution of the Federation has been violated, which provides for adequate representation of the constituent peoples in the authorities and in the counties. In Herceg-Bosnian County, according to the '91 census. The percentage of Hrvat is 51.7%, Srbin 35.54% and Bošnjak 10.47%, other 2.44%. With this decision of 4 judges appointed to the county court, only 1 Hrvat and the President of the Court is not Hrvat. Of the four prosecutors appointed, only 1 Hrvat and the chief prosecutor is not Hrvat. I therefore submit this initiative, with this initiative and resolution on this matter brought by the Assembly of the Herceg-Bosnian County. Please forward this initiative. You got her on the bench all the MPs, and the services to pass it on to the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8946	On this side, Mr. Ćeman Mirsad is next and Mrs. Palavrić. That's how we ended this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8947	I have one question. In fact, Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as a number of other countries is signatories to a large number of conventions and other human rights documents, including labour-based rights, or employment relations. Before the war, a large number of workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina worked in neighbouring republics at the time of the single country of SFRY of Yugoslavia, especially in Croatia, Slovenia, etc. After the war, the vast majority of them were not allowed to continue their work, i.e. re-establish their working legal status in the companies in which they worked, and quits were rarely given as a type of pressure for other illegal reasons. They were largely unable to handle disputes for the protection of their rights, neither at that time nor today. These people think that the state authorities did not consider this issue at all when preparing, i.e. the conclusion of interstate agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina with, above all, neighbouring and other countries. So, can the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and what it can do, and I suggest that measures be taken to finally protect these people's rights, i.e. that only in such a way do they lose their working legal status, i.e. other adequate, second appropriate right from this relationship. Although more than 7 years have passed since the end of the war and this may seem unreal, I note that some of them have been trying to protect their rights all along, but without success. The state must therefore be more actively involved. 21 Finally, there are announcements that the establishment of an association of citizens interested in the protection of these rights is about to take place. I'm asking for a written answer, of course from the Department of Human Rights and Refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8948	Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8949	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I will first repeat my question at the 15th session, which is - I am looking for information and I really expect to get it this time about the number of employees and salaries of each budget user. So the users of the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Second. The chairman did not ask me if I was satisfied with the question of what assumptions are necessary to meet in order for BiH citizens to start exporting their agricultural products to the EU. Thank you very much. I'm satisfied and I'm going on. The answer is indeed, I must point out that the Council of Ministers has provided a comprehensive response, which among other things shows that the problems remain inconsistencies of domestic legislation with EU directives. I therefore ask the Council of Ministers to extend this job so that both the Council of Ministers and we MPs allow our initiatives to begin exporting BiH citizens to the EU market. So please tell me-- what are those regulations? What equipment is needed? What funds are needed financially and what are the entities responsible for ensuring this benefit that the EU has provided to the citizens? The third question is the question of the Council of Ministers -- which institution at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can solve the problem of 18,000 people discussed by the respected professor Kunić? Is there such an institution? If it doesn't exist, what we need to do to make the state have such an institution and to resolve at least these interstate disputes when it comes to the social rights of our citizens. And a fourth suggestion. Mr. Jovanović, and probably not by accident, for the past two years it has become a habit, here in and the media is seen, very often said let him prove his innocence. That reminds me of the time of the Inquisition. I suggest to all of you that we allow our inquisition to be offended and that it is up to the prosecutors to prove guilty, not the defendants or the accused to prove their innocence. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8950	Yes, it is a fundamental legal principle. It's a Đaba of time. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hereby conclude this item of the agenda. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. It's Ad. 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Communication Act under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure You have received the Proposal for a Communication Law with the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure under Article 105 of this House. It's about the law, just for your information is, you could read it on the very text of the material that we received from the Council of Ministers, which was temporarily declared by the High Representative. So there is no possibility of change before Parliament adopts it. I am opening a debate on the procedure regarding this law. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the procedure. Who's to accept article 105 for this bill? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. So 30 was present in the O.R., 26 voted for, 3 were against, no abstentions. Let's go around the entities a little bit, see what's going on. From the Federation who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's from Republika Srpska for? 21 Federation, 6. So there is. I'm also finding the entity majority. I find that we have therefore accepted the procedure under Article 105 for this law. Now let's go to a statement on the very text of the law. Who's up for the law? I'm asking the whole House. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is he against the law? There isn't. Abstained? Thank you, too. The Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Yes, it is. Thank you. Republika Srpska who's in favour? What's the status? So like this - 30 is present, 27 voted for, 3 were abstentions, against none, there is general parliamentary support. From the Federation is 19 from RS 6, so there is at least 1/3 for the law. 23 I therefore conclude that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, most of the votes with vote ratios, adopted in the stenogram the Communication Act in the text as we received it, namely how it was declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. The request of MP Filip Andrić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent basis pursuant to Article 105. Ambassador Filip Andrić's Rules of Procedure submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a request for an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You received the bill and as you saw it was only one member, article 25. I'm asking the representative, or does he have a need to explain the text of the law? If you'd like to come in. Mr Filip Andrić
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8951	Dear fellow MPs, I'll be brief. I, in the light of the basic reasons, stated that it followed the bill's proposal to say from here that, yes, yes, that this initiative, or the proposal to amend and supplement the law that, not to take it wrongly in the context that I, as a representative or anyone from my club, have something against anyone. On the contrary, we want to do good for all of us. The fact is that in Article 25. The concession law leaves the possibility, meaning that someone is competing for a concession, or without a public tender. In my opinion, it's not right, no matter who it was. Therefore, I believe that this proposal for amending and supplementing the law cannot harm anyone. On the contrary, it can only be brought well to everyone, so even this if someone wanted to bring it into contact with Bosmal, if I were in the position of Bosmal, I'd stand for this. Let the one who offers the most favourable conditions pass. And leaving the possibility of anyone getting a concession without passing a public tender in my opinion I don't think it's right, especially when it comes to big and big things. Finally, in some legal decisions both in the Federation and in the counties there are regulations that limit even the amount to some 20,000 marks, if it is procurement or if I don't know what to necessarily submit to a public competition, and here you can state your opinion, finally vote on it. I just want to point out once again, I don't want anyone in my motion to be associated with any stories that I have anything against anyone. On the contrary. And I think with this law we'll bring Bosnia and Herzegovina the most. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8952	Thank you. I'm opening a hearing on request for a hearing under Article 105. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8953	Mr. Chairman, respected members of the chairman, dear colleagues, honored guests. What we talked about last time here today came to the proposal to amend the Law on concessions even though we proposed, that is, in the debate we discussed that it would be good to make the Law on concessions for road construction. But the bottom line is next. Under Article 25, and this law which is given here and which is to be amended, or a proposal to amend the law, has enabled me to tell this Parliament that in the assessment of a particular project it can make a decision on the award of concession and without concession. But please ask one other question here and again that it is not considered, I'm not asking the Bosmal question, I think that this paragraph, or Article 25, should have its own elements to say who can be, I'd say Pandam or rather who might be the one who can get that offer. It's a question. I showed up, and I totally made a proposal to the government or the Presidency, or to the Council of Ministers, to propose that I be the bearer of this investment. Please, I was listening to a commercial this morning on a radio where Bosmal is now inviting citizens of the house, etc. To unite the money, to pool the money to get this 300 million. That's how the commercial works. Well, please listen, when I say what I say. So I think maybe this member, please, only 25 should say that there are criteria that can be offered to be a partner in this part that, so here's why I'm proposing. I suggest that it try to add to this Article 25, i.e. Article 25, it is, to add who can be the bidder to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a direct concession agreement and who definitely brings the concession. Because this is where it was brought, a mistake made. We were told by Bosmal that this law was not precisely defined who could offer such an investment. That's what this is about. So, me, last time I asked to be told what goes against what Bosmal gets? No Niko gave me an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8954	Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Have Mr Nikola Špirić prepare and then Mr Beriz Belkić. Sead Avdić after that. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8955	Since this is a debate, the only debate we will have about this law, I want to commend Mr. Andrić's initiative and understand that indeed, as he says himself has nothing to do with this job that Bosmal entered. I'm also glad he says so himself, as is the law allowing for the possibility the Council of Ministers applied when it comes to Bosmal. It's interesting that this law was passed last year at a time when the Alliance was in power. I believe the intentions were fair when Article 25 was predicted and there were no hidden intentions. What I must say is that, despite this, I believe that Mr. Andrić's proposal does not meet the requirements required under Article 105 in order for the law to be considered under this procedure, because we cannot say that this is a high-level emergency law unless we want to stop the Bosmal procedure. We can also not say that it is not so complex, because the possibility left in Article 25 I think it should remain always, because for it specific assumptions are envisaged and the tender is possible everywhere where it has already been called, and when it comes to Article 25 and the self-initiative offer all again transparently. I have no reason not to trust the Council of Ministers who decides by consensus that there is something in the public interest that what in such a system will be considered to be in the public interest. And the further regulation of Article 25 is that the award of the concession itself cannot go without the commission formed by this parliament. Again, it is an additional guarantee that we will get the result we would have and that we have had a tender with what is in particular if this is the cause of this, and I do not want to believe that it is the Corridor Vc's job which is the job of the century and which very rarely appears and I suppose that is why it is this exception in the law. Therefore, on behalf of the Party of the SDA, I am therefore pleased to conclude that the Council of Ministers did not violate the concession law in the current procedure when it comes to Bosmal, that whoever was listening last time to the information of Minister Dokić could hear that everything Bosmal did remains the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore, having in mind and in the process that is going on and these reasons I was talking about, is not the time for Mr Andrić's bill to be considered under Article 105. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8956	Thank you. Mr. Špirić has his word. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8957	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I think it would be good to stick to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 104 and 105, and we are now discussing the procedure. We now have a chance to say whether or not we will accept Andrić's proposal to discuss it by article 105. 26 But you see, even though I used to say in my earlier appearances that it is very difficult when legal projects are complex that we MPs offer laws by procedure to take or leave, but I think it writes in the Rules of Procedure when the amendment of the legal project is short and clear enough to be taken according to the procedure of Article 105. We have adopted laws here according to the procedure of a member of 105 who has 50 pages or 25 pages or has 200 members. I think this is an example of the law and these are the changes that our Rules of Procedure applies to when they're short and clear to everyone. I wouldn't now, we're bringing this into connection with this or that project. But giving the public good of this state without a tender is insane, no matter what it was about. Whether on roads, water, forests, mountains, ore, ore, ore wealth. I think, in that sense, I will support this law being discussed in accordance with Article 105. What kind of attitude I'm going to have on a concrete proposal is what I'm going to defend in the next move, when we see what the fate of this agenda is. Whether we discuss it by article 105 or not. And that is why I would ask that we now declare the procedure, and essentially what it is about this is that we discuss in the second part if we get a chance, or get the support of the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8958	Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8959	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, of course we are also the Party for BiH MPs' Club very inclined to respect the Rules of Procedure. However, it is obvious that each time frogs and grandmothers are mixed together and then it starts from procedure to content, etc. I will be very precise, we will vote against the procedure under Article 105, and if there is a debate and if the procedure goes through and we argue we will be against this amendment. And don't waste my time saying short reasons why. Regardless of the shortness and clarity of the amendment, it puts the whole concept of the law at stake. That's why we want to hear the Council of Ministers' opinion. That's the first thing. The other thing is, it is not usual for legal projects to be changed during procedures conducted under the law. And finally, the most important thing in this way is that we produce complete legal uncertainty. Total legal uncertainty when it comes to investing in this country. What will those who have entered this procedure and those who observe such large projects say, is what kind of country is it that in the middle of the procedure is questioning the law under which the procedure is being conducted. And finally, I ask the Council of Ministers to finally finish what is required under the concession law. You are welcome to set up a concession committee. And then you will avoid this situation to vote whether information is needed or not. The Council of Ministers, if it asks me, should only bring here information every time and ask for the support of Parliament it has, not to vote whether information is needed or not. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8960	Thank you. Mr. Avdić Sead answered the word and no more reports. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8961	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Corridor Vc project is of vital state interest, it's a mega-project, it's a project of the century as we say about Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this context for sure that we have decided to concentrate, I would say that it provides full transparency in the process of creating and leading such a project. What I'm trying to say is this. This is the proposal of a respected representative of Andrić, whom I respect and simply legitimately. However, the usual practice has already become in the House of Representatives that such demands are meant for the procedure of Article 105 objectively, unless they come from the Council of Ministers for consultations of the Council of Ministers. It would be correct of us to simply seek the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the proposal for this law, i.e. the pijedlog, to amend the Law on Concessions. That's one thing. It means that we should seek the consent of the Council of Ministers, or a simple opinion and position of the Council of Ministers, because the author is simply an MP for the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. That's one way out of this situation. The second exit is that counterpart Andrić agrees that this law amending the Law on concessions goes in accordance with Article 104 and that in this context we can easily intervene on this law. No matter how simple, simple and quite clearly formulated from the point of view of Agent Andrić's proposal. It means that I suggest that my colleague Andrić simply think about the initiative to transform his request and go along with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I ask to vote on my request, which is that the Law goes to the Council of Ministers' consultation, with the fact that this project has simply entered the procedure and would be extremely unserious of us to simply ignore the Council of Ministers' position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8962	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8963	Gentlemen of the chairman, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, the SDS Club has repeatedly voted, and by its public statements it was against the adoption of the Law under Article 105. And we've said it here more than once clearly and publicly. 28 Today we have here a bill on amendments and additions to the Law and again the request of MPs under Article 105. I am very close to the opinion of Mr Avdić that there should be further consultations on this, that is, with the Council of Ministers and, of course, I would like to support if MP Andrić would change his request. I am fully aware that Mr. Andrić's request is a member of 105th, and that unless he sets it otherwise, we must vote on it in this way. What is a problem and what is complicated about this law, and thus the procedure, because you will allow us to very difficult to separate the debate on the procedure from the debate on the law, because there is no debate on the law if we adopt procedure 105. There's a thing that's very clear, that there's no such discussion later. So it further fits the situation of Mr. Ingram's statement, complains the situation enough and some more of the discussions here that they had, and also some of the messages to the BH public. It's very hard to really interpret whether it's okay for the job of the century to be awarded without bidding. As some say here, the work of the century. If it is the job of the century, and probably what kind of business we're gonna have that it is. It means as interesting as we are. In that sense, this problem is more complex. It is a complex problem, and because it is very difficult to justify any problem afterwards, given that it is the Council of Ministers, so on a very narrow one, let me say, in a narrow circle, that is, in a narrow circle of people, make such a decision on giving a concession. I don't think we've disrupted something to the Council of Ministers even though we would adopt a text like this, because the Council of Ministers, as far as I know, has not entered the procedure to grant concessions, but only to the feasibility studies. Which means it has absolutely nothing to do with anything. The feasibility studies will work Bosmal, provide funds, not provide etc. Now you'll see it, and the job of awarding the concession follows after that when and for that I don't see that we've disrupted something here. But that's why it's urgent because that job goes right after that. So in that sense, this law is a higher degree of urgency. Maybe not this degree, but in any case a higher degree of urgency. For all of these reasons, the SDS Club after a debate is held requires a half-hour break and then, of course, we will present our position on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8964	Thank you. Mr. Zorić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8965	I had a need on behalf of the HDZ Club to say that we will support the procedure under Article 105, and that if we will support the amendments and the additions we will come forward when the time comes. Here, a colleague, Novaković, asked for a break, so we will discuss the possibility both Novaković and Avdić were talking about at the club that belongs to this law. Because since the break has already been requested, I wouldn't want to say anything more now. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8966	Thank you, sir. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8967	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I am, since I have heard here and the presentation of fellow Zorić and then my discussion will be very brief. I also wanted to join those colleagues who spoke here about the importance of the need, the importance of this law and the need to correct the said article 25. In view of the importance of this, and not of course in question of the Bosmal Initiatives and Arrangements of the Skies already entered the Council of Ministers with this company, and all to say in the interest of building and building a Corridor Vc, I would also like to, because of all this importance to suggest if it is possible to transform this initiative into a procedure under Article 104 in order to really have time to possibly even better quality this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8968	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. I'm giving 30 minutes off before my plea at the SDS Club's request. So the debate is closed. We'll continue at 12:30. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] We took a break at the SDS Club's request. Does the president of the club ask for a word after this break? You can't do two jobs at once, Momčilo. Are you looking for a word after this break? Anyone else want to talk after this break? Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8969	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, here is after this brief break and after all the debates I have heard here, I am still standing on the stand that the law is simple and that it does not enter into other articles. However, while respecting the desire of many MPs and clubs to leave the possibility of having a little longer discussion on this proposal, I am willing to accept the initiative to mean that we should change the requirement to follow Article 104 instead of Article 105, provided that today we declare whether we accept the procedure under Article 104 or reject it. So we wouldn't waste any more time waiting for the next session. On that condition, I accept it means that we are going according to Article 104. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8970	So now we have one important, we have a new situation. In fact, the promoter has given up the procedure under Article 105 which assumes the principle to take or leave and is now proposing a procedure under Article 104. We move to a statement at the request of the Proposer for the procedure under Article 104. Who's in favor of this procedure? Did you count the votes? Who's against it? Please, Martina, just a little bit. Who's against this procedure? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back from this procedure? Give me the results. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask who's in favour. Thank you. From Republika Srpska, I ask who's in favour. Thank you very much. Of the 34 MPs 20 voted in favour, 14 voted against. The Federation voted 11 in favour, from Republika Srpska voted 8 in favour. I find that MP Filip Andrić's request for a procedure for this law under Article 104 has therefore received general parliamentary support for the short procedure and has also received the necessary entity support, so this law has been set by Parliament to go into a shortened procedure, which means everything that is done in the ordinary procedure, by the time the deadlines are in half. And we will have the opportunity to discuss this once again here in Parliament. We're moving to agenda number five, that's Ad. 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. So it's that short procedure again. The bill promoter is the Council of Ministers. The request, therefore, is only a matter of procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, Niaz. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in favor of adopting this request? Thank you very much. Would anyone mind? I find that the House unanimously with 34,35 votes for, without votes against and without abstentions, accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina be considered as an emergency, so it is called, this is the kind of emergency procedure, it is actually a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, so that's Ad. Six. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104 again. The Rules of Procedure of this House are also the Council of Ministers. The requirement is that it be considered in a shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who is to accept the procedure under Article 104? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 35 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, has adopted this procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure concerning the Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Air Force. It was a request from the Council of Ministers. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Seven. A consideration of the proposal for a document Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy is the proposal of the Council of Ministers in fact, and the document was also discussed by the Presidency. The proposal is the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We received it officially from the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. This document arrived in Parliament on 2 July 2003 and was addressed to us by MEPs on July 3rd. The Bureau sent this document to Parliament for consideration and adoption. So you got the document. As you know at the 16th session, we postponed the discussion of the document in view of the long duration of the 15th session in order to allow a reasonable time for the debate on this important document. Given the importance of the document, Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy we have called on this session in particular to invite the Council of Ministers to appoint a representative of the Council to submit to Dom the document's reasoning. 32 Is there any representative of the Council of Ministers who will give Dom the reason for this document? I'm calling on the Council of Ministers' representative. This is Deputy Minister Dragan Mektić, who will report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8971	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is before you as the chairman has already said this document called Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy. In fact, this document before this home was discussed by certain top authorities, namely both entity and state bodies. At the state level, the document discussed the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and adopted it with a recommendation to deliver it to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament for consideration and adoption. I will, as a representative of the Council of Ministers, here in a few introductory words and sentences, give a brief content of this document and thus provoke if I can thus say a debate on this document and then you will opt for the way in which you will adopt it. This document is one I would say such a living matter since it stems in its basic part from an assessment of the security situation from the assessment of the security environment of risk and threats to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in addition to the transition of both the social political system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the ownership, given the environment closer and wider and the security situation in that environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it can be changed daily by its assessment, complemented, and thus by these constituent elements that determine or determine safe policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this document assesses the security environment, risks and threats, defines the interests and objectives Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to achieve in the area of security. I have already said that the adoption of this document by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has met an important precondition set before Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring international structures closer and its implementation is a very important step towards further internal consolidation and strengthening confidence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This document is contained in several of its basic parts, including the principles of security policy, the general security policy provisions and the constituent elements of this policy, implementation and final considerations. When it comes to the principles of this policy, it is visible here that several principles are laid down, among other things, legal basis, which means that security policy, security and defence policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be defined exclusively in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina that regulate these 33 areas and based on respect for all international documents adopted by Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina, which relate to this area. As the next principle, that is, the principle of indivisibility, security in the modern world, which means that the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be seen from the aspect of its environment and as such assess and propose measures and actions within the framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy. Then, the following principle would be a comprehensiveity in protecting the values of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that in BiH, coordination of the activities of the existing ones will be ensured, and where appropriate new mechanisms need to be established with a view to providing adequate active protection of the values of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then, as the next principle or principle of peaceliness, which means that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state has been decided that all open issues and problems are resolved by means of legal and political means and that no country in the environment will experience as an enemy country, a country in the environment and beyond as an enemy country or as a territorial claim against other countries. Furthermore, as one of the principles or principles is the principle of transparency, which means that the entire security policy will take place in an entirely public, or transparent way. The openness to change is also the last principle or principle that implies that this security policy will be open to furthering and adapting. These would be the basic principles or principles on the basis of which this document was drawn up. Furthermore, the document also provides general security policy provisions in Bosnia and Herzegovina where some fundamental values and interests and fundamental interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina are listed as safeguarding constitutionally established order as well as human rights and the security of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In particular, the involvement of Bosnia and Herzegovina as in the EU and in the Partnership for Peace programme is important, and this is listed here as one of the basic values, i.e. the interests and objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina's security environment has been analysed in a certain way by finding that international terrorism and organised crime and as the new emerging special forms of organised crime pose a very good threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy and are a very strong threat to its stability. It can also be safely claimed that there is a strong link between these two activities. So terrorism and organised crime because unlike the former times when certain members of terrorist organisations are considered alleged as freedom fighters have now lost that status in the public and mainly terrorist organisations are well-funded and financed from enormously high-ranking figures by the execution of certain serious crimes of organised crime. First of all, it's about drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and the like. 34 Also one of the same assumptions of threats as the security environment is the reorganisation or transformation of military effects in the environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The focus here is on space in Southeast Europe where the armed forces of certain countries are in the phases of serious reorganisations and when it comes to reducing human potential, as well as reducing military technical effects. So, but still high concentration of military effects are also a reorganisation that is roughly and generally going quite difficult or complicated when it comes to this area in itself, in a certain way it poses a certain threat or risk in the environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A risk assessment and threats to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security can be taken into account in three essential elements, which would be political, defence-led military and economic elements. A group of political risks could consider policy-making based on ethnic, religious, cultural or any other intolerance. Then, insufficient political dialogue, possible demonstrations of the subversive activities of different internal and external groups, the lack and slowness of Bosnia and Herzegovina's involvement in European, Euro-Atlantic and European integration, insufficient bilateral co-operation, lack of support for partnership relations from part of the international community, etc. A group of defensive military risks can be classified as the lack of democratic control over armed forces, the lack of proper procedures for international security co-operation for early warning, illegal transfers and illicit trafficking of weapons and terrorism, which also poses a permanent threat to security in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself. A group of economic risks, which is in itself, given the situation and the situation in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area, is also one of the essential security risks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, it means underdeveloped or technologically lagging economy, slow privatisation process, low level of domestic and foreign investment, the existence of still black market, then a group of social risks, high unemployment and uncertainty caused by low incomes, slow return of refugees and displaced persons, slow professionalisation of the public administration sector, the tendency to increase the average age of the total population and the need to increase social exposure, etc. As is one part of this risk group, the threat to the environment and the possibility of certain natural disasters such as forest fires and floods, slides, technological disasters, industrial pollution, the unregulated situation in the area of nuclear and solid waste disposal and waste of military origin can also be of elements that may in some way endanger the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In particular, it may be important to stress that the special security risks in Bosnia and Herzegovina represent large areas of mined territory, the slowness in solving this problem, the lack of sufficient material resources for one more offensive 35 activities in this area. As constituent elements of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, this document lists foreign policy, internal policy, then defence policy, strategic objectives, challenges and guidelines for defence policy and economic and financial policy, then human rights, reconciliation and the return of displaced and refugees. As far as foreign policy is concerned, the objectives are defined in the document as general directions and priorities for implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, and they mainly concern the involvement of Bosnia and Herzegovina in all international organisations and institutions, and, above all, Bosnia and Herzegovina's desire to join the EU. The improvement of bilateral relations with neighbouring countries through active and constructive foreign policy makes a special contribution to the stabilisation of the region. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency also defined itself in this area in July 2001 with its declaration of readiness to join Bosnia and Herzegovina's Partnership for Peace programme, which is very and important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. As an element of internal policy, it is very important to protect the Constitution of established order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and develop a democratic political system, equality and equality, i.e. citizens and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, maintain lasting peace, as well as other established values. In achieving this internal policy, a sustainable favourable state of security is very important, especially in terms of the general state of public order and peace. The same is true when it comes to protecting the lives of citizens and the property protection of citizens, i.e. the protection of property, private and any other property. A satisfactory and favourable situation is very important when it comes to the fight against organised crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina, its link to terrorism and the fight against terrorism, as well as border control by the competent authorities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so full control of Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders. When it comes to defence policy, it is based on the basic Constitution of the Dayton Peace Agreement and provides for specific functions and powers, but also on defence issues both at the entity level and on the state level which everything should act in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as a basic, most important body in the matter of control and implementation of defence policy is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Standing Committee on Military Affairs as shown in this document. All armed forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina will operate in this direction to maintain Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The common goal of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence policy should be to build a recognizable defence identity for Bosnia and Herzegovina. With its decision on Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence policy in May 2001, the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency has proven its readiness for the strategic decision-making process on the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and has established a political basis for preserving the interests of both state and entity. 36 As far as strategic challenges and guidelines are concerned, it is very important to note here that the restructuring of the armed forces is under way and that this is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to reducing members of the entity armed forces, this strategy requires a common concept of proper determination of the size of the forces to achieve a common and agreed spectrum of the mission, means protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international law. So there is no doubt in this document, expressing the full commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina to both international principles of civil command and democratic control over Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces. As bodies for the implementation and control and use of the armed forces here, as provided for by the Constitution, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency is under official duty, meaning it is carrying out a civilian command over the armed forces and as a collective body itself, the Presidency itself, as well as each member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. The Standing Committee on Military Affairs with its secretariat as an executive and expert body provides support as a more co-ordination and advisory body of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Economic and financial policy as an essential element that determines Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy is also very important and particularly important in the transition process to create a single economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to adopt the value of an open market economy. The fight against poverty and corruption, the construction of modern banking systems, and the development of good economic relations with neighbouring countries and countries in the region are also very important economic strategic interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the same when it comes to security policy itself. Then the implementation of economic and financial reforms, the adoption of responding laws in line with European standards will contribute to a stable economic and financial situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this also involves improving financial discipline and accountability both in the process of planning the collection and in the phase of budget spending. When it comes to human rights reconciliation and the return of displaced persons, this implies that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a policy must be implemented that guarantees a full right to life, the right to freedom and security of every person to a fair trial, then the right to eliminate, that is, any possibility that will eliminate a threat on any basis such as sex, race, skin color, language, religion, political and other opinion, national, social origin, membership of a national minority, property, birth or any other status. This means a very important element that would significantly affect the favourable state of security policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina from its full respect and implementation. Reconciliation is also a very important element in determining the security policy itself, and it is one of the essential preconditions for building sustainable peace institutions and safe co-existence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 37 The return of displaced persons, I think, is a question that is often raised at various levels and in various areas of discussion in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is very important and important that all refugees and displaced persons have the right to return freely to their homes in accordance with aneks vi of the dejtonski Peace Agreement and have the right to return the property that has been seized from them or to receive compensation for all assets that cannot be returned to them. This means that they are allowed a safe return without any risk of harassment or threats. Just as one important element of this security policy is to protect the human environment or the environment where it is necessary to ensure integrated management and control and rational use of resources, prevent building on agricultural land, uncontrollable forest cutting, exlocation of quarrys as well as excessive pollution of land and air and traffic. So Bosnia and Herzegovina should agree on inter-entity legislation in this area as soon as possible, as well as with EU law. And finally, here's to say that this document that you're going to discuss today is made up of, that is, all of these elements that are made up of, based on the assessment of threats and risks, and I say this is one living matter that changes not only depending on the opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the events, but also depending on the events in the environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is to say, the very risk assessment and this security situation is determined by the very security policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina itself, and it is possible to adapt, or modify and adapt to one such condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8972	I thank the Deputy Minister, too. I'm opening a debate on this document. The first was Mr. Vinko Zorić, Beriz Belkić, to prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8973	I volunteered to request a 30-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Democratic Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8974	Tell me, can we just know, we had a break a little while ago, which is why, is why the agenda point is that. The agenda point is the reason. Just so we know, I mean when, I'm bound to take a break, but it's nice to state the reasons. The reason is the agenda. Please. Please. Please, nice. So, I'm taking a break so that this break can be used by someone who failed to eat lunch, used for lunch and paused until 2:00. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Vinko Zorić, president of the HDZ Club asked for a break. Is he looking for a word after the break? 38
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8975	I'll just say a few sentences. We last had the position at the Club that the proposal for a document Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy should not be here at our house in Parliament without the members of the presidency being shown about it. And for that reason, when we saw that no one from the presidency is here, we asked for a break, and we will only accept this document, so we members of the HDZ Club are democracies, without having any debate. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8976	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the question. Let Mr. Ćeman Mirsad be prepared, then Mr. Jozo Križanović, then Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8977	Dear colleagues The Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina MPs Club welcomes the entry of this document into the Parliamentary debate after two years of patient waiting and we understand it as a step forward in the process of entering Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Partnership for Peace programme. Of course, we also have procedural dilemmas to say so, and we expected that one of the promoters would be here. At least one of the members of the Bureau. We thank the material processor, therefore to the Deputy Minister in front of the Council of Ministers for giving us the opening remarks, but it would be good for us to cost here that the procedure that has been carried out and it is very difficult to interpret from the documents that we have is such that it can be understood that the Council of Ministers has processed the material, the Presidency has identified it as a proposal, and today this house is being declared in terms of final adoption or not adoption. We also expected that, in line with the Bureau's conclusion today, we would have these individual remarks which are indicated here, individual remarks by members of the Bureau and entities. It was left behind and it is possible that Mr. Zorić was talking about it. So the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to this document, appreciates that it did not fully reflect the need of the Bosnian Herzegovina community for such a document, because it simply lacks the sub-politicals that should be an integral part of such a document. First of all, we think about the area, the social area, we think about the judiciary, we think about intelligence services, politics, etc., but we look forward to it, and we hope that by the trace of what's been said here, the document is open, etc. that after a defence reform expected to be implemented by the end of this year, he will undergo appropriate changes and will be corrected in terms of the introduction of these sub-politicals that are inevitable and an integral part of the common security policy. 39 We would especially like to stress that there is no rating, there is no assessment of the capacity and competence of the existing security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina which are in some way operationally needed and that they are implementing the concept of this document. Now something concrete, i.e. in a concrete sense, is what we suggest that this document, as an amendment, possibly be supported. So it is pointed out in principles that for Bosnia and Herzegovina it is of particular importance to develop good neighbourly relations with the principles of equality and co-operation. We think this principle should be passed on in respect of territorial integrity and sovereignty. So the principle we are talking about should be extended not only to equality, but to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or neighbours. Furthermore, as part of the principle of transparency, we think that parliamentary oversight should be drawn out in particular. So name it, define it to provide parliamentary supervision through appropriate working bodies as an integral part of this transparency. We further think that in this paragraph, that is, part of the document that speaks about the basic values and interests and the objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, in addition to the EU's indication and the partnership for peace as our interests and objectives, we should say in the document that our goal and interest is to become part of the European concept of security and, of course, progress if we agree. Furthermore, at the end when it comes to assessing the security environment, we agree with the conclusion that there is no danger in military terms from neighbours, but we think it should be indicated that there is a specific situation that takes place through special relationships, etc. It can affect security or not security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there is still the interest and ambition of neighbours in some way to affect internal affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina through this document of special ties. We absolutely support special connections as a document, but to be implemented in the way it is foreseen through this Parliament and the banner. In addition to these remarks, we would support this document with a special emphasis on the need for this document to be synchronised with the results of this reform after the implementation of the reforms carried out in the area of defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8978	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8979	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to start with two three remarks that are formal or you are procedurally natural, and then I'm going to say a few things that seem to be essential to me when it comes to one of these documents. Of course, it is not difficult to agree with the assessment that it is very important that such a document is in front of the Parliamentary Assembly and that it is finally adopted and with regard to 40 immediately one formal or procedural question. The document alone, as such, remains a dilemma somewhere near there on 10, 20 pages to 20, says that the final adoption is actually done by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we consider this as a document that we should accept or not. It seems to me that simply this procedural dilemma remains in the document as such. It needs to be made up. I wouldn't explicitly be here right now saying who is, and who isn't and who needs to finalize the document, if today we're talking about him on both the essential and the procedural sides, then of course we need to know in the end whether after what is heard here today, the document will eventually be returned to this Parliament again, or we'll just put it right in the document as it is. So that's the first misunderstanding. Perhaps or it seems that the misunderstanding is of a procedural nature. Secondly, this is also formally the first nature when some are mentioned in such a serious document as this and otherwise official document other official documents, then they should be used not to say so in a jargon, or in a shortened version, but in their full meaning, i.e. a name like that. The General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not as the Dayton Peace Agreement is said out there, although it is clear to all what it applies to, but simply this is the formal side of the thing that it simply needs, which I should imply for it. Furthermore, in one place, I'm still talking about these formal things being talked about amongst entity legislators. To be honest, I don't understand what you're thinking here, what you can think of and what this means. I know that entities in some segments, though, conclude some agreements, protocols, hours in, at the level of government or I don't know how, but here it seems to me that before or at least I should be talking first about the legitimacy of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina which, in some sense, is supposed to come out of this was actually inter-entity, or I'm not suggesting such meaning, but what kind of entity legitimacy. There is a legitimate state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course regulations in the entity area, and that is why it seems to me that at the very least this concept is problematic, unclear, more significant and confusing, perhaps in concreteisation. Next thing you know, it's probably some kind of printing error, but since I'm still in this formal matter of these things, somewhere out there it's about protecting the resolution ministries, in one of those pages, I don't know exactly where, so the sentence is pretty vague. So these are some formal legal suggestions or remarks. As for the essentials, I think the basic intensities of this document can indeed be accepted and supported. That's why I said what's being brought. I will point to two three that, in my opinion, need to possibly assess to what extent they can and should find their place in this document. Mr Belkić had just suggested in one of these places, if I understood it well to add this part or fourth part of the constitutional definition when it comes to the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the additional 41 competencies, so it is said that in addition to territorial integrity, subjectivity, etc. must actually be added to all these places where these categories and international subjectivity are mentioned. So I'm referring to a provision from the Constitution that should then be consistently transferred here, because abandoning this means something. One who has either forgotten or knowingly left out then is a certain message. Therefore, it should be consistent with the list of these attributes, i.e. the content relating to statehood, independence, territorial integrity, of course to add to international subjectivity. In one place, somewhere on page 13, it is mentioned, here to find it says - that to achieve strategic goals and with full respect for interest and to some extent still existing reservations of the entities and constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, restructuring of the armed forces is of fundamental importance. Please be nice in my court it is absolutely irresponsible in one such document to claim that there is a reservation, let the entity perhaps even, although there should be one to say, because I am sure it is not at least the same relationship with this issue about both entities, especially to say that this reservation and constituent peoples. Of course, the following question – who has identified and where the constituent people, on the basis of which methodologies, which way, etc. Such a claim simply, if it is not differentiated, cannot survive in such a document. Otherwise, qualifications in the documents of this type which undertake organs that should continue to work on operationalisation must be more subtle, clearer, more concrete, without the possibility of different interpretations etc. And in the end, one thing I want to point out specifically, and it concerns the next. Somewhere on page 4 in, as I would call this, is not a chapter that speaks of peaceliness, so I will quote, namely – Bosnia and Herzegovina is firmly convinced of the possibility of resolving its outstanding issues by means of legal and political means, I welcome of course. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have territorial claims towards neighbouring and other countries, I welcome of course, but now stands the finding, neither the neighbouring and other countries are experiencing as hostile and as a potential threat to their territorial integrity and sovereignty. I'd like this observation to be a serious assessment, and I welcome her, too, but I'm in favour of supplementing this the following way, because this is a document that obliges all possible organs and organizations not to list what it might be, to activity depending on the assessment that's being installed here. So my suggestion goes in that direction that in this part should add the next sentence, or sentence with such meaning. I didn't scratch it, so maybe you'd better say it. Please add the following – however, it should be borne in mind that there are still forces that do not hide their tendencies, which also have territorial claims towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the full truth of this qualification, because we're witnessing that there are such things. In one such document, in my court, it is not irrelevant to leave that reservation as a suggestion to someone who has to follow it, not really accept it, that he really does not accept that with all the potential and possible to say the relations, although we are absolutely friendly, correct, etc. relations primarily with neighbouring countries that do not have this kind of tendency in mind. They just exist. Of course, whoever accepts such a qualification here would have to be more decident, clearer, 42 but in one such document it is very important and key question of whether or not there is a reservation of this species. If he has it then it means something, if he doesn't have it then it also means very, very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8980	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8981	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to express my satisfaction that today at today's session there is one very important document for Bosnia and Herzegovina that should set out the framework and guidelines for the construction of the system of structures and mechanisms necessary for effective action in the overall domain of security. So it's a very important document for Bosnia and Herzegovina and a team before it deserves our attention. The Bureau, as a proposal for this document on 18.6. this year, established a conclusion that it supports both acceptances and basically accepts the proposal for security policy, and tasked it with standing in an accompanying act by its military advisers to submit observations and proposals to the Parliamentary Assembly submitted by entities and respected members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. So the dilemma remains immediately whether or not we are discussing one final document. We would do well to have these suggestions and remarks, because then we too might be better and more efficient to look at the security policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it is not clear whether this is the final proposal for a document offered by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that I fully agree with my colleague, Ćeman, so it is not clear whether this proposal will therefore be re-inflicted with the above-mentioned remarks and proposals again for consideration in this House. I would like to briefly remind you of a certain technology of the adoption of this document so activities on making a security policy document take almost two years. In 18.8.2001, the Council of Ministers was a forming task force tasked with doing the basics of security policy. The Council of Ministers then formed an expert group, which ends its task on the 3rd month of last year, and the Council of Ministers established the proposal at the end of the year. Why did I cite this fact? I cited it for the reason that it has been a very long time since the Security Policy Proposal was laid down by the expert group, almost a year, a little more and in such a form the Council of Ministers established the proposal, and the Presidency, as already said in 18.6 this year, identified this proposal that we have today. I said this because it can be concluded that we today have a proposal which, from the point of view of time, is rather inactive and time-consuming. It doesn't cover many events that have happened in the last year. 43 Thus, the security policy document does not cover very important chapters such as the priorities and objectives of security policy, social and health aspects of security policy, intelligence policy, and the organisation and functioning of the security system. For this proposed text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, it is reliable to say that it is not finished, that it is quite principled, in general, declarative and that as such it cannot have a very significant use value. Priorities and objectives have been replaced by general principles, and the elements of policy security are defined by the principle, we must again, we will, we need etc. This security policy does not respond to key issues such as – who is responsible for the overall security situation in the country, or who is responsible for the external and who is responsible for internal security? What does the security structure of the state, or who are the holders of certain elements of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy? And finally who and how will finance Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy holders? I am afraid with this document we would fool ourselves and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community, and surely with this quality does not meet one of the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join a partnership for peace. I'll give you a few examples. It has not been sufficiently held a series but, therefore, it is not in a concrete way done by a series of already started reform processes. First of all, which occurred in the last year in the area of defence reform, intelligence services reform, customs reform, tax reform, judicial reform, education, etc. In the assessment of the risks and threats to the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is not enough emphasis on organised crime which, in our conditions, has often had international character and a wide variety of complex forms, such as illegal immigration and human trafficking, unauthorized drug trafficking, terrorism, environmental and nuclear crime, information crime, money laundering, etc. Basic Pre-conditions of Police Defence
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8982	Cell phones, please turn it off. We made a decision that way. I'm sorry I said that now that Mr. Jahić was talking, but there were speakers on the phone this morning. Go on. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8983	Thank you. Therefore, the basic subsystems, police, defence and intelligence as entities that are the key holders of the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy have not properly found their place in the document through the review of organisational forms of assessment of functional capacity, material equipment, the efficiency of sublided 44 handling and the possibility of uniform and effective action in the overall area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, there are insufficient guarantees that the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency will successfully play the role of civilian commander over Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces in a situation where, according to the Republika Srpska Constitution, the real commander of the Republika Srpska Army is now president of Republika Srpska. The maglovit role of the Permanent Commission for Military Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence policy department as one of the central parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy. A lack of reference is given to the importance and role of SFOR and speculation about the possible replacement of SFOR with the European military forces. Continuing the mention and precision of the role of the defence ministry, the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina as one of the key entities in implementing the document, Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy confirms the inaccuracy, superficiality and formalist approach from a clear vision of the operationalisation of the document itself. And finally, instead of a clear determination towards the needs and interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the one hand and the obligations which, as conditions before Bosnia and Herzegovina, sets out a partnership for peace between NATO, the EU and other international associations with regard to the construction of a single and effective defence security and intelligence system, which entails, in addition to the transfer of powers from entities to the other to Bosnia and Herzegovina, this document is missing one good opportunity for security policy to be a single, specific platform for the necessary reforms and is practically converted into an instrument for maintaining the status quo. On the basis of everything said, we suggest that this document be returned to completion, that it be complemented by the dropped units of very important importance for this document and that it respond more specifically to the questions which, as well as what means, will implement the elements of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy. I would also suggest that we speed up the formation and activation of our joint commission of both security policy homes and that, before the debate, the next debate at this house be found on the defence and security committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8984	Thank you too, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr Nikola Špirić prepare, then Mr Nijaz Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8985	Dear colleagues, I think we are headed in the wrong direction when it comes to a debate on a document called Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina. 45 First, I'm not about us doing what we shouldn't do, but I'm about to do everything we have to do. This document is adopted by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I see no reason for us to adopt it. After all, in the document itself, the Presidency said so. So this document should be kept in mind. I am here to take it into consideration and to suggest to the Presidency that this document, or its realization, is being followed, or it is being brought into it, because it is a living document, and not a dead document, brings into it what is changing, and we know that, in a very short period of time, a whole chapter in this document will be changed. In doing so, I do not think that the Parliamentary Assembly is thus disowning anything, but simply doing what needs to be done. And that's why I think if we keep going in this direction, we're just going to complicate the thing about this document. I could also go into the debate if we were to go to the adoption of the document and bring a whole set of objections to this document of technical nature as it's written, where something isn't said in the way we think in the club, up to some fundamental remarks. One thinks that the document is unnecessary somewhere in the entity's role, we do not think that the entity's role is sufficiently highlighted in light of the Dayton, the Dayton principles there, which determine exactly why the entities are responsible, or its institutions. If we go to these individual remarks as we have set out, we have the only chance to return the document to the promoter that he does everything we say, or as we did the last time we discussed the report on the implementation of Annex VII, to return it to our commission that we don't have so far, so that she can extract something from all of this and suggest to us. I'm afraid in such a way that we are now in a situation where this document is going, that is, a debate about it is going in a completely different direction, precisely in the unwanted direction of those who suggest it. Of course, if we go into it, then I will discuss it myself, or I will take my right to discuss the details of this document and to make individual comments on this page and on this page in that order and so on. etc. But I'm afraid the result of that will then be exactly what I'm talking about. Whether someone in the document wrote that there was a danger from neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, the much worse version is Mr. Ćeman that text you suggested. Only then would this document have to have at least one more chapter very serious that what you suggested shows as such. And not to talk about the measures that should then follow if that is indeed the case and if Bosnia and Herzegovina threatens its first neighbours the danger of territorial integrity in that of course, as you said. From all this, the SDS Club proposes that the document Security Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina be taken into account and suggested to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or, in conclusion, bound by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus giving the importance to this debate here today to bring any changes to the defence sphere into the document, meaning that it will inevitably happen in the next month, two months, and thus make this document, daily, let's say by living document on a daily basis and inform us periodically about the realisation of what the document says. In this way, this 46 parliamentary assembly and this House would have played a role in controlling the implementation of this document, which I think is its role. So not to adopt it, but to control in any case the realisation of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8986	Thank you. Mr. Špirić. Have Mr. Duraković prepare himself. After that, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8987	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues, fellow MPs, I will speak very briefly. Of course, if a man wanted to be maligned so that he could find a lot of grudges in this document, but it seems to me that today we're not at the job, but we're trying to figure out how to deal with this document in order to do a good thing for Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can see that from the 26.6 letter of the Presidency in that letter, it says that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina supports the draft document, the Security Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it points to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for consideration and adoption, and the document itself on page 22 says that the Council of Ministers directs the proposed security policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Standing Committee on Military Affairs through the Committee Secretariat, and afterwards the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the final adoption and processing of the document Security Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to say that the reform of the security system in Bosnia and Herzegovina we are working with the help of the international community and that it seems that these experts of ours working in the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, are very hard to succeed and descriptively, in the light of some document, make it a matter and send it to Parliament. But what bothers me is that on the cover of this document it says that the document was finished in December 2002. We are now entering September 2003, which in itself deacts certain things in this document. Of course, if I were to look for... (drums) there could even be talk here about things that deserve attention from the point of view and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it's about the state-level defence budget, because there's no such budget. There is a budget for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which, of course, funds will be found related to security policy and to the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and let's say things that fall under this document under the authority of the Council of Ministers which he does not have under the Constitution when it comes to defence and security policy. But to put all of this aside, what we know or what we know as MPs is that the reform of the defence system is in a hurry with the help of the international community, and also the system of intelligence services, and that these are jobs that are near the end, and in this sense I would be willing to suggest one conclusion to this home that we therefore actively come out of this debate, appreciating, of course, everything that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers have done in this sense to come to this document. And it is true when 47 colleagues say that there are problems, that there are resistances, because if there were no, this would be a better and more serious document and we as MPs must be aware of both the moment and the time and the process that is going on after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be good if it went faster, it would be good if we had a better document, but this is also good compared to what we had back two years when this was taboo topic. Whoever mentioned it would have been thrown out to this story or that story. In this regard, I propose one conclusion to accept the document Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy in the text proposed by the Council of Ministers and to reach a conclusion obliging the Council of Ministers to update and novelise this document in 2004 in accordance with the BiH Constitution and normative legal and other documents that will result from reforms in the area of security and defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, of course this is the topic that requires innovation from year to year. There are no security policy assignments forever. This is a system of reforms that will require complements every year and what we as Parliament should seek is to be informed in time and to get these documents. And if we accepted this to return the document to be completed, believe us that we would repeat the same debate and once again the time and process that is going to disabling that document, because it is great...timely from what the Presidency does to the moment it comes to Parliament. So to accept it precisely in this form, therefore precisely in the form in which we received, so that we do not change it, but to assign the Council of Ministers to the innovative document in accordance with the processes under way in 2004. Here I am asking that this conclusion be spoken to by Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8988	Okay. Mr. Nijaz Duraković. Have Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself and those are the speakers for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8989	Since I called earlier, if I had known how my predecessors would speak, I wouldn't have answered. I fully support what Jozo Križanović said and now Nikola, because I have received some paper, the conclusion is that the BiH Presidency basically accepts this document, etc., and in the second point is that military affairs advisers are in charge, as it says, members of the Presidency to deliver observations, suggestions, etc. I don't know, we've been well explained by a Mr. from the Council of Ministers since the Council of Ministers and what we are as the Parliamentary Assembly here in this position at all. And let me cut it short. I basically support, support the discussions, in particular, both Novaković and Križanović and Špirić, but it would be at least correct about this decision the Presidency makes, that these gentlemen, and at least one of the three of them come to this assembly and that 48 expose us to the concept, so that they respect our remarks, suggestions, well-meaning etc., so that we can then give an atest for this document which is basically good with some small finishings. But, from the correctness and dignity of this House, I don't think today we should be having any discussion about this document, no conclusions, because we're not even in charge. This is what the Presidency is bringing and it's just informing us and it's looking for some kind of suggestion. If so, then let the gentlemen come here and give us a reference, and then we'll discuss it. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8990	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8991	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have largely shared the opinion of many speakers, and I think that everyone in a certain way, depending on where they are located, is entitled and can be confirmed. However, in the accompanying act it stands Decidently - we provide you with a document for consideration and adoption. So it's either somebody's been playing with this parliament or it's something I can't explain, but I can see it's not right. So I took my right to study the document, to try from my point of view both as a citizen of this country and as an MP in this House to see what it is that is in a certain way by me, either skipped, or bypassed, consciously or unconsciously, or simply formulated so that in this time it may not now fit or just release a list of wishes and theoretically set out that there should be a state. Now there's something standing between the lines and it just brings, let's say, concretely brings me into a dilemma about whether or not to talk about what I saw in this document. I will, however, very soon, with a view to making my closest suggestion that this document is once, to say no back, it is certainly a document of the Presidency, but that we help him as Parliament that, if he unconsciously did something for, skipped, or bypassed, to enter into this document and pay attention to putting it on a scale, because this is what I fully agree with Mr. Križanović lacks a dozen segments of life from this country's lives that directly and indirectly affect security in this country. They're not even touched, that's from intelligence, social policy, etc. etc. If I were to sit here, I could really list a whole cell of problems that, in a certain way, affect it, and they're either bypassed, or they're simply skipped. That's why I thought in a sign of goodwill to help maybe the predsjedištvo that it has a complete picture of this House's opinion, because it means we should see with our opinion of them back that they complete it. I would give myself the right to say in short a few things in my mind that I should not speak directly to them now about what they didn't even touch, and they really haven't touched a huge number of segments of life that are necessary and very important. The formulation of the finding that 49 jobs will be done in this country until we bring the state into a state of social stability, should I say who it is to make that assessment. Is this the Presidency, is this Parliament, is this the international community through which the form that works here, thank God there are dozens of them, we can no longer count them from the OHR, the OSCE, this, that, etc. and each one acts in a certain way from an aspect and segment in which he is probably on a mission in this country. So it would draw attention to the Presidency to try to consider this one problem with its own additions to bring them in. When it comes to internal policy, it's theoretically well worked out what it would be and what it would be, but I get the impression that only wishes and one picture of the state has been said, and it's not said in the real state. With no word in this document, I've never seen the complexity of this country that's not in the world. We are unique, possibly unique to such organizations as they are here and how much from that aspect of organization can and can act and put problems in their place as they are. Furthermore, it has been said that the activity of bodies and services implementing internal policy will be continuously aligned with European standards, but it is not said how long, as far as. How long are we gonna stretch that? Who will control it and how it will control it and what mechanisms it will keep on what it will do. I think it's necessary for one document to do so, and as one suggestion, I suggest what I suggest at the same time to someone, if they write it down and listen to it, it's still extremely well-intentioned, not in the sense of any particular criticism. It is said that strategic decisions should be made on security and defence for a strong state. There's something missing first, first hand to heart now we don't have a strong state. Let's say in a state this unpowerful which are strategic measures that need to be taken to make us a strong state. Who will bring them in what way and how much influence this parliament has on these strategic forces, decides that a strong state in a certain way stands on these feet to see some things slip away and which are for operational reasons. It continues to say that entities will also not allow the state to become subject to political party interests and ambitions. Well said. However, the practice has so far shown that it is right there and is the focus of instability that is determined, if it can be said and thus needs to be overcome. You've got a whole series, but they've skipped everything, I'm just gonna touch more economic and financial policy. Privatisation is a black hole in this country's life. The fight against poverty hasn't even started, it needs to be characterised differently, and relations with neighbouring countries as they must finally be, I asked a question once, I'm never answered, we come into colonial relations with neighbors 100%. These relationships must be slightly different on partner, good neighbourly, etc. I can't see from it here. I'd end up with a chapter on environmental protection. She's Bosnia, we all know she's the dump of everything and everything that the universe doesn't receive anywhere. It has become a mine of soulless people who develop this country on all grounds of plant nature, other mineral wealth 50, etc. I'm afraid we won't become one desert country from which we'll run, we just don't know where and which side and who'll take us where. That's what I said earlier. I will try with one written review of me, address the Presidency and suggest my opinion, as far as they will accept how unlikely this will be their thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8992	Of course you have the right to do so as an MP, I can see that you are very interested and that's good, for that area. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is how we exhausted the debate. I am obliged to inform you, there is an advisor here from one of the members of the presidency who asked for a word. I don't know if I should let the president's advisor take a word for the pay phone here, please, if you have any procedural clarifications only. Then please just procedural clarifications. Mr. Dragan Kapetina, counsellor, only procedurally please, because this is what we need to address the members of the predsedništvo and I support all those who think so but just give us the procedure to tell us what you have no more.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8993	Mr. Ministers, I have just been meaning to say a few sentences on these procedural issues and what the Presidency has concluded by bringing this document. This document is first adopted in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the only document regulated, regulated by the adoption of this document is the presidency programme and the presidency's decisions in the making and making of a document – Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy. In that decision, paragraph 6, the same text in Chapter IV of the text of the document – the Security Policy of the Proposal for a document sets out the Council of Ministers to deliver it to the Standing Committee on Military Affairs for consideration and that the document finally adopts the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When this document was adopted in the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, objections from entities and normal objections were present, i.e. seeing members of the predsedništvo in relation to this document. I must tell you that these remarks have been quite conflicted. The predsedništvo also concluded that it would accept and adopt the document in a proposal that came from the Council of Ministers and that since a huge time distance had passed from time to time to the adoption and adoption of the document, and all these remarks that came from entities and concrete members, it predsedništvo deliver those remarks to Parliament and the Council of Ministers for some subsequent update and addition of this document. 51 Have we said and concluded that this is a document that is open and that needs to be upgraded and updated, the presidency also concluded that this document should be urgently upgraded immediately after implementation of defence and defence reform reforms in the field of intelligence and security reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to this document, the Presidency was promised assistance from the Office of the High Representative of IOSC. So by the end of this year, when the reform of the Council of Ministers is completed, they will re-shape the task force and join the addition of the document. As I went out to say that we in the presidency believe this document was adopted that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a security policy. Let me tell you right now that this document is one of the formal conditions for joining Bosnia and Herzegovina's Partnership for Peace programme. And the predsedništvo sent him to Parliament to consider that Parliament would also make its observations and to see this document, in order for the update and addition of the document to be this, one fully comprehensive in order, for example, to have this document, in the coming year, according to these remarks, brought here today, both in the Presidency and in the entities. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8994	Thank you very much, I think it was a useful explanation. I'm closing the debate. I'm calling, therefore, to keep you out of the O.R. I call on club presidents to join the College to consider this situation and try to suggest one conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8995	I have a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8996	Please, please, you can say that at this meeting right now in five minutes, the president of the clubs with the College just let's see. In the meantime, we were able to reach a consensus on the extended College of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8997	It wasn't me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8998	You can't wait, slow down, it's a new thing. You told me you were okay with it. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u8999	No, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9000	So here's what they'll have the right to say what others think. So, we've reached consensus. So I realized and, of course, there will be a discussion about the proposal for conclusions. As regards the following conclusions. The first conclusion, therefore, on this agenda point would be that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives basically supports the document – the security policy we received from the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. The second conclusion would be our conclusion, therefore, that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly finds that this document is not current because it does not contain reform solutions in this area that are under way, and we ask the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to include these solutions in this document afterwards, the third conclusion would be that the predstavnički of Representatives would require that as soon as possible, because it depends on the second House in Parliament, a common Security Policy Commission for the Defence Security Policy should be formed in order for this committee to be able to deal with this issue too, and which represents one significant segment in democratic control of this area and the fourth conclusion would be that the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina would deliver them to a stenogram of discussion with today's session, therefore the observations and suggestions which the MPs made, and thus does not exclude the possibility that those who have given these suggestions on their own. This is, therefore, the 4 conclusions that I thought we agreed on as the session of the extended College is called, but Mr Špirić is asking for a word and I am, of course, giving him my word. Here you go. So I'm opening a debate on the proposal for these conclusions. Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9001	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a decadent request from the presedništvo not to accept, basically or in principle, and then, says the Parliament for consideration and adoption. In view of the time discrimination since December, the document has been current for that time, reforms have gone on. So this document is either being adopted or coming back. What we try to do to a man or a woman like any debate, believe me, doesn't allow reforms to go. The formation of a commission may be a special item of the agenda. No one's defending us. So this must be the point of the agenda of forming a Commission 53 to monitor the work of security authorities or I don't know what it's already called. And let's not mix pears and frogs. We received the document for consideration and adoption, and I suggested the conclusion of all the weaknesses of the document and of the time discrimination to accept the document and to task the Council of Ministers to update the document in 2004 in line with the reforms and all that has been done in the context of the security system reform. I don't know what else we want. It's like we're basically accepting but counting everything that's wrong. So let's be serious about Parliament. If the majority appreciates that the document is wrong with a dose of seriousness, return it to whoever sent it to us. Well, let them know it's not a good document. And you know, please, we're now installing as if we're going to, with our conclusions, form a commission and so on improve the text of the law, the text of the proposal we've received. So in that sense, I have a conclusion, and I ask Parliament to make a statement on the conclusion, and I will make a statement on these conclusions, and that is why I said that there is no consensus,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9002	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9003	Because we're not looking for a way out here, we're looking for Parliament's exit here, not a debate on the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9004	Please, nice. Mr Špirić, so I respect your right to suggest something, of course, and Parliament will plead. I'm just going to tell you what the presidency has done about this document. In its first conclusion, the presidency on the document said the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina supports, supports and fundamentally accepts the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy and points to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for consideration and adoption. Therefore, the documents in this conclusion show that neither the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted a definitive document in essence. I only read what it says. Do not ask Parliament to do so as Parliament calls it if Parliament is aware that in this situation, in this document which was from December 2002, not all those things relating to the reform of the defence security sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina are incorporated. So at this point, we are giving our opinion on the document, and at this point we believe that at least according to the proposal of this conclusion, all of what is therefore to be incorporated into this document. The difference between your proposal for a conclusion and what the extended College has done as a proposal for a conclusion is that you insist that this be adopted as a document and this 54 conclusion leaves the document open basically to acceptance and requires that those things that happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina and will happen in the final document be incorporated into the document, as well as in the defence security sector reform. That's the only difference. But you have the right to your opinion. I put to the vote the proposal for an extended conclusion, Mr. Novaković and Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9005	I'll be in touch first.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9006	Mr. Duraković, here you go, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9007	I made a suggestion, but you skipped it. The proposal was next. We basically accept the document, but we'll make a definitive decision about it when the presidency gentlemen come here to explain the whole document to us because it's from them and the paper came. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9008	All right, Mr. Duraković, that is to say, it means that when this document is put into place, we can conclude that there is no debate on this document without the presence of members of the predsedništvo. So there's no dilemma, so that means what you're talking about. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9009	Dear colleagues, I can also accept the conclusion of the first conclusion, so since the predsedništvo in such a way is this, I suggest it so, in fact suggested, basically supported what I don't think is good, it's not that we have a second conclusion where this text is said to be not current. Look, no text will be current in the way we think it should be current, so it's enough to conclude that in this document it means, without this, it's not current, it's implanted means that the living document is practical, and not that it's not current because it was current at the moment when someone suggested it, you watch it, and none of it is ever current because it's living matter that keeps moving. So I'm just suggesting a change here in the text of this means that this part is thrown out that it's not actual but that the presidency will mean this one with changes etc., etc. thus update this document. In that sense, because, therefore, simply no way as we say it here will be current. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9010	I don't think that's any different than what I was talking about, and what I said as an interpretation of the extended College, this one was said to be in the second conclusion. The first conclusion is that it's basically supported. The second conclusion is that it does not contain in itself, and the fact is that it does not contain what happened in the reform of this sector from December 2002 until today, it does not contain _________________ I don't think it should be written. I think it should be written. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] It does not contain, but we can say that we are therefore asking the Council of Ministers and the predsedništvo to include in the document everything that has been in place since December 2002 until today and in the future when it is adopted, so it will happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina and as regards the reform of the defence sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, and that one, that's understood. So that's it. No, no, well, then the conclusion goes around the Commission, and then it's delivered, so the stenogram and that, therefore, the Presidency is considering this debate that we've been having today at the House of Representatives, and then that's it. I think that's it, that there's no misunderstanding at all. Of course, and it's assumed that I mean, here's who's going to run this session when this document is discussed again that there's no discussion let this be remembered without members of the presidency who are going to be here and they're going to defend this, this document. So here are two suggestions. I am now this proposal from the College as I read it the last time I read it, the last time I read it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9012	Well, of course, I'm basically accepting, basically, I'm refusing, so where does it have to be?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9013	I'm sorry that we support being maximum-consequential and Špirić is right in general. We've received one document for consideration and adoption. They're reviewing the documents today. We don't adopt the document, we don't adopt the document, so most of the debaters and clubs say it doesn't adopt the document.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9014	It's not true. We said to adopt 56.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9015	No, I'm sorry, mate, it's not true. That's why I want to make that clear. So the first conclusion isn't, it doesn't reflect the president's opinion. We have considered, we have not adopted the document, we are asking for the innovation of the document, the radical reform of the document, the adoption of a violent document and the presence of members of the presidency here. Which means we're not adopting a security policy document today. And honestly, guys, what's wrong with you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9016	Next, Mr. Križanović, here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9017	I'm not making it any harder.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9018	You'll see what I'll do when I sit here when you lead, it's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9019	I don't care.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9020	For the sake of the credibility of what we've been talking about, I'm just going to say one sentence and a correction. So, I support basically these proposals of conclusions except for the first one in which we agreed to support the adoption of a security policy, but given the comments made, we cannot adopt them, but we return them for these reasons as the chairman explained in the addition of the update in terms of how the chairman proposed it here. Other conclusions normally, I agree, I think they're correctly interpreted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9021	Look, these people, I have to tell you that club presidents, here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9022	Of course, when we explain later then to find that BiH has no Security Policy document at the moment. With all that that carries as a consequence. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9023	Mrs. Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9024	I'm asking my fellow club presidents to think about what we're saying. No Niko who went out here to discuss it refused that the document was basically good. Basically. Everyone on this basis added comments and let's not complicate if we agreed then we don't have an extended College has no purpose. The first proposal is the first conclusion really stands. We basically support the document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9025	And I mean my men how can you tell me if I can get the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9026	Here, the word has the chairman, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9027	How can you say that we basically support the adoption of the document Security Policy. I'm sorry, guys, but it's absolutely stupid. I mean, I can't believe you can say something like that. So we have to bring the document to Security Policy. Listen to me, basically, we support adoption, so we have some doubts about whether Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a security policy. Well, my people, I mean, come on, be careful. We had a nice college meeting here. So Bosnia and Herzegovina must have the document Security Policy and Point. One who says Parliament should say that we basically support the adoption of the document Security Policy that doubts the need for the adoption of the document Security Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can't do that. We had, so please, we had a session of the extended College and in the session of the extended College we agreed on what we should do. It's only after we've agreed here that the pay phone is coming out and trying to find some other solutions. Today's debate points to the following. Bosnia and Herzegovina must have the Security Policy document. What we have in front of us today is what was fundamentally current in December 2002. Third since December 2002, important things have happened to date when it comes to reforming the defence sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is not covered by this document. Today, MPs have been commenting on what is written in this document, and we do not have a Commission on Defence Security Policy in Parliament. This house has done its part of the job to the soul. He didn't finish the House of Peoples. And the conclusions that have been drawn by the extended College actually reflect the essence of the discussion that is being led today at this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9028	I thank you, Mr. Novaković answered and Mr. Živković answered. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9029	My colleagues, I just came out to find out that it's not true that we don't have a security policy. The presidency adopted security policy and Bosnia and Herzegovina has a security policy. And that's what I've been saying from the beginning that we need to take this document into account because we have a security policy that the Presidency adopted as it is and that will constantly be upgraded and updated as living matter. It's me, then I agree that it's now contrary to this proposal and conclusion but don't we have it, we have it in this variant we have it. If you want to go to someone else, then we can say we don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9030	Mr. Živković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9031	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would only confirm what Mr. Novaković said. It's a similar situation if you remember it was also about the foreign policy that we also received from the presidency. It is also in this House that none of the members of the presidency were there and what happened to that document? That document was returned to the presidency. Is that true? On the basis of which this same document cannot be returned to the presidency because it does not respect the procedure. The documents are not being consulted by this parliament and are subsequently delayed from asking this parliament to adopt such documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9032	Okay, does anyone else want to talk about the conclusion proposal? So I'm closing the debate. We have two groups of conclusions. We have the conclusion of the extended College and the proposal for the conclusions of the expanded College and the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Nikola Špirić. Please, I'm taking a break by 4:00, and I'm inviting you back to an extended college session. Up in the O.R. And let the Secretary of the House go up. What's the status of the quorum? We've got 30 MPs in the O.R. We've got quorum. So here's finally the enlarged College agreed on the following text of conclusions, and well done, so watch me now how I'm going to pronounce the words. This goes into a stenogram, so the conclusion that will be put to the vote here reads us, he has two attitudes. The first position is - Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy document delivered by Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency. 59 Second position – Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency to install reform solutions from Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, security policy and delivery documents to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for adoption within 90 days. I'm putting this concerted proposal to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I therefore find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted a two-point conclusion on this agenda, which reads that I have dictated it unanimously with 31 votes for, without votes against, and without abstentions. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's point Ad. 8. A report on the evaluation of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the GRECO Secretariat You are ladies and gentlemen MPs who have received earlier material for this item on the agenda. It was a draft report, but we later received a new final evaluation report from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we sent you on July 31st of the current year. I hope you got the new material. With the first material you received comments and suggestions from the Constitutional and Legal Commission as well as a proposal for the Commission's conclusions on human rights immigration, refugees and asylum. So it's about the first round of evaluation reports that you could see in the meteorium adopted on 14. The plenary session held in Strasbourg from 07 July to 11 July 2003. So this is practically more for Parliament's information, that's what our committees asked for, but here I am opening a debate on this. Who wants to talk? Mr. Huskić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9034	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues have already entered our congregation at 7 o'clock. I think she's been paying attention, too, so I'm going to, uh, I'm going to try to be brief, not to pay back.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9035	Well, that's if it's 60.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9036	This material, in my opinion, describes the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a shame, as said in our commission's material, that we didn't write it, that it was written by foreigners because the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina know what it says here, so the content is known to people, only that they haven't formally had a chance to read it. And I don't see the reason why it stands – confidentially on this material. It would be more appropriate for me to have the mark – a public secret. The problem of corruption is problem number 1 in our country because until this problem is solved many will not be able to solve it because it is a condition for solving some other problems. I even think that the material of the High Representative that bears the title of justice and the job by me should be called, business and justice is called and it should be called justice and business because the condition for a job is more justice. I therefore propose that the label be removed from the material confidentially and made available to the public, because it contains nothing that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or do not know or should not know. I think it's a shame that the Constitutional and Legal Commission's initiative to discuss the document in both homes is not accepted, but it's good to discuss it today. The Bosnia and Herzegovina party believes that the problem, that special attention should be paid to the capacity and structure that Bosnia and Herzegovina currently has formally but we do not know their real options. In doing so, I think of the state border service, the office, the audit of the judicial system, etc. Unfortunately, we still don't have all the services that we should have at our country level that should have answered the question whether our institutions are ready to fight corruption and organised crime. I repeat, so the key thing is to train our institutions as regional institutions to respond to the tasks they face. We believe that this issue deserves a plenary session of both Houses of Parliament in order to send a clear message of what the parliamentary assembly's position on this issue is. Finally, I propose that this House be entrusted with the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Human Rights Commission to monitor the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report continuously and report to the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9037	I thank Mr. Huskić, here is Mr. Ćeman Mirsad reporting for the next word, so Mr. Moranjkić, he will probably, shortly after he spoke several times today, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9038	My colleagues and colleagues, I have to be honest with this material that we got to call it that, the report, a few days ago, I at least got it 04.08. and today it's 07. so two or three days ago. I have not been able to compare with that report that I, as a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, had in mind when we were preparing to discuss this report on 61 Constitutional and Legal Commissions. That's why I can't make comparisons to this one, because I'm not saying I got this material and the one we had in mind. But the fact that Mr. Hadžimusić is probably here can help us if someone appreciates the need, and he himself may at least briefly comment on the impressions of the GRECO Group of countries in the Assembly held on July 07th to 11th of this year. In any case, the accompanying letter that we have received shows that it appreciates the fact that here and Parliament has been included in a sort of preparatory phase of considering this report in the GRECO Assembly of these countries and that this is certainly what this and the Commission, although I am not speaking on behalf of the Commission at this point, the Commission has found that from the methodological aspect contained etc. It's a very, very high-quality approach or a report. I decided, therefore, by welcoming this kind of vision, to finally elaborate and analyse the situation just point to two things and here I am not saying or checking whether they contained in this report not as the Commission's views, because we did not discuss it on the commission but rather as ideas that could have been heard about this issue in this report. I am personally distracted by this qualification, and I hope that such an unacceptable qualification is indicated in the GRECO Assembly next thing. In particular, in Chapter III of point 100. The reports that we had in mind when we, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, read and considered this on 12 May 2003, stood in a certain context there that naturality exists with the Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs to work with each other. I would also like to point out here that this finding is, if it is indeed a picture that has been obtained and which as an official position, reports submitted and as an assessment, it does not appear to me because I am, therefore, not a complete view of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but my position on this issue, because you have received other committees, namely by my deep conviction international relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been on a difficult test and a great challenge, especially in a wartime, and perhaps still, but that the multiethnicity, co-existence and the state of trust have dominated in a far longer historical period and from the aspect of historical experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina relations with co-existence and international trust are still a natural state and not that the natural state is the natural state of dissuasion of these three nations for co-existence, etc. For me, it would be very important that this, and this Parliament, say, one such very, very difficult to say a qualification if it remained in the official report that they accepted at the GREE Assembly and that it might eventually stand behind this second qualification. I point to it for the reason why one such assessment can then work and develop this place where different views of many things in Bosnia and Herzegovina and about this. Since this is in fact a report on the evaluation which is in the first instance, the addition of the legal and other system to the effective fight against corruption and all that is being done, this one that is being followed, I can say that in a bar in a normative 62 sense in this respect, a lot of what is as a requirement in or a position or conclusion in this report has already been set up, so here is the activity of both this Parliamentary Assembly and other competent authorities, reforms in the field of justice, etc. These recommendations are part of the recommendations that are made here, etc. etc. Here I am, therefore, without intending to enter into everything that this here could be said of is limited to this given that you are some other grades, attitudes, opinions that have just been recorded in the thinking of the Constitutional and Legal Committee members, you get and you can compare it with what you've said here. In any case, this House and this Parliamentary Assembly should encourage these intensities stemming from one of these reports, I hope that they are and certainly confirmed in the Strasbourg Assembly, so to encourage them and to be this body which, when it comes to Parliament's task, will in any case be consistent on the way to achieving these drafts to say the idea or operatives that arises from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9039	I thank Mr. Ćeman, Mr. Moranjkić. Muhamed answered the next word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9040	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, offered the GRECO Group's report on the evaluation of BiH treats several very important problems, and I have them all this and they are alone on three. It is corruption in its complexity, which today is the cancer of the country's wounds and of this society and of Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations by entering the GRECO group according to this problem and the recommendations of Bosnia and Herzegovina to address this problem so that it can enter into European integration. So I realized, I accepted this problem and I read it and there was something I didn't understand that I would try to bring out here both myself and ask you. This report made it clear that corruption as the main motto of the entire report is pretty much under the supposed signs, and I would say extremely worrying, spread out in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as such, it has crawled into the almost entire body of this country and all of us. To the police, to the judiciary, to customs, to the military, to the parties, to the tax administration, to schools, to colleges, to hospitals, to customs, to public institutions, and to the entire state structure from the local community to the top of this state, which is irrefutable and I won't have to engage in living examples that are truly frightening. Turns out everything got sick. Corruption and crime were both the other brother and sister twins who embraced this country in the war and here continue after the war. Unfortunately, it is particularly prominent economic crime that is kept in this report, I am particularly interested in keeping this safe, probably from the public because I couldn't tell from whom at the level of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wonder why and if that's true. Without this, this report for me is really weird if I don't get an answer like that. Who protects and as long as thieves in 63 of this country and for what? And this is what the public of this country is looking for answers and silence turns out to be acceptance or complicity in a black hole like this in this country. The transition, according to this report, has been marked as one of the hotspots of corruption and crime, and it has been stressed that they are the same on the rise but that the basic state functions have failed. I wonder if any of the structures really work on this so it doesn't work out like this, to be at the same time the main carriers of corruption and crime of those who need to solve it. The results of a possible investigation shall be hidden or carried out for the purpose of carrying out the investigation. No Niko's been arrested, no one's legally acquired property has been taken away, I wonder, and I'd ask those who were making this report why, and as long as it makes sense to talk about it in any way, if it doesn't stay in continuum and start a job, and he knows how to bring it. There is no problem in this world, Europeans, our bodies and organizations. When they're listed, I can't even read how many there are anymore, and in the end, it's a finding that corruption and crime are on the rise, and it's drastic. I wonder if any of these organs and organizations are doing real work and whether they wave at working methods when they solve this problem together with us in this country. I am particularly interested in this, and I underlined that the Ministry of Justice programme of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina said it prepared the programme and the law to prevent corruption and crime in 2001 and that OHR stepped down that activity in legislation. It's something incompatible to me and I'd really like to get an answer to that topic because what I read as a reason is really unattainable or it's written for little children who would read this text. The mention of fictitious companies is a common product of courts and criminals. It's common knowledge. I am interested in why this report does not know exactly the name and last name and the courts and judges who have committed such drastic crime in this country and have put this country in a very difficult situation. It's true, these are fictitious companies, they're practically traffic that practically undermined the foundations of this country. What is said about the courts, the courts judge by the Chibuk all almost falls to their heights, and what becomes legal no one in this country knows who should do it. I know exactly the company with 86 Supreme Court rulings that have come formally to enforceability and no one in this country can tell who will carry them out, because the one they refer to doesn't care about. It is specifically about the State Customs Authority. As far as the ombusmen are concerned, they solve national and other problems, they don't get into this much, and I would disagree with the report's findings that they've gotten in a lot of trouble with crime and corruption in this country. Especially here, I have to point out what I've noticed. That many of the criminal acts that are indicated in the light of the day are subdued under so-called protected information. That seems to me like the report itself says executive power. I wonder what the executive authority is and who's protecting it means criminals who finally expose themselves to doing what they're doing in this country. No one should have immunity for crime in this country. Crime must not be a matter of privilege for those who have certain immunity on any basis. 64 The mention of the Law of Amnesty is a farce, for the Law of Amnesty is as it is, he is passed, I will quickly preside over, I know that you are me in advance, this farce and deception, because beyond the Law of Amnesty the great criminals of this country hid themselves, and those who by morale, by the norms of men should have this law, they were only a mask to hide behind. Therefore, in the conclusion of this issue as a parliamentarian and as a man, I do not agree and ask that this committee be reconsidered and brought into order. Customs and tax administrations are loud epicentres of crime currently in the country and they undermine the foundations of this country. The activities have been initiated, and I welcome them. The report has not been told, and therefore I would say that this report has certain shortcomings, but so far the most complete yet to come before us. I say hello. I accept all the recommendations and those given by our Constitutional and Legal Commission and those given by GRECO and those that will be given here in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9041	Thank you too, Mr. Moranjkić. I'm just warning you in time, I mean you don't bother me, so don't just think that you can take it whatever you want, that's your problem, just don't impute me something I'm not, which I've never done before. I, you said that I'm in advance of something, I don't know you didn't finish this, don't, don't know but I'm just telling you this, I can tell you that I'm bound to run the order here, about the Rules of Procedure and that every discussion should have some time of its own, you know. That's it and now it's possible that there are other reasons on Wednesday, here's some comments but I wouldn't talk about it right now. Anyway, thank you. Mrs Ljiljana Miličević answered the following if I saw correctly, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9042	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we have read this report at the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party and that we agree that this is a quality report that my predecessors have already said, where it is most written as it is. So, not what we'd like to read or what you might add, but what you'd like to do is put it in. So the situation is that kind of coffee is. It also looks nice at the beginning of this sentence where we are kind of praised, where it is said that the satisfaction is found to show progress here and adapts our legal infrastructure and adopts the best instruments and practices in the fight against corruption. It's a piece of hope for me. So I wouldn't look back on what's here for this analysis of theirs. I would like to put an emphasis on the conclusion and recommendations given to Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the way, I have to say it's probably a mistake in a bad translation, and it's important that it's required to become this, a report that's trusted to be open and here it's being asked for our consent to be published on the website. So, as the first recommendation here writes to form and determine the body responsible for coordinating crime throughout the country including corruption. I'm afraid that we already have that 65, and we have to do one thing opposite, because here we have some of these shortcomings in translation, but it's very important that we have a lot of the things that we have already done in the recommendations and at best, we're halfway through doing it. What's this all about? So it's the witness protection, we've already had it. We now have in the process of this adoption being, uh, the state office for reviewing, the allocation of more resources that is this requirement that we have received, so much of what is listed here in the recommendations is the best way to be adopted in this Parliament and it's important that this is under 154 and 155. let's draw some conclusion about this. So Greko calls on BiH authorities to take care of the comments made by experts in this report in an analysis section and others to inform BiH authorities of the implementation of those recommendations by 31 December 2004. We can already see what we have done from these recommendations, what we have done in half, and what we have done to follow these recommendations to make the next report even better for all of us. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9043	Thank you, Mrs. Milićević. Who else wants to speak on this subject, on this subject? You see, I'm just going to draw your attention that you have a accompanying act, right with this document. This document is adopted, therefore. Bosnia and Herzegovina's representatives were following our commissions' analysis of the document at a session that had the final adoption of the document. There are certain comments in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Hadžimusić was present, and here I will, as none of the MPs appear, just briefly allow him to address the MPs on the subject. Here you go, Mr. Hadžimusić. Mr. Novaković informed me that he has an urgent obligation at 5:00 and he will not be able to attend the session from this moment on. We still have the quorum as far as I know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9044	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, it is an extraordinary honor for me to contribute to the debate on the agenda of today's session in front of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In front of you is a report on some 36 pages with addendums that make up a copy of the criminal code and one table display of business offences in 2001. Dear MPs who took the floor before me have already made enough comments and of course I will be brief. This is the report, it represents the final phase of the evaluation, which consists first – after its membership in Greece, Bosnia and Herzegovina received a questionnaire replying to all authorities at the state level at entity level. Then we received a draft report of 66 which this Parliament, in fact its two committees, had already given a detailed and serious consideration. It also helped a delegation in Strasbourg at a plenary meeting this July 7th to 11th in a three-day debate in a round of racial lawyers of the Council of Europe that can be compared to, here I am free to tell the Venice Commission, but in this area fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is won first in Parliament. In that legal infrastructure. She doesn't have an ending, but she starts here. This Parliament has seriously considered since the start of the evaluation process within Greko and made remarks that have helped our delegation hold a high flag, not to complain, to receive these very favourable comments and to receive a quality report whose most significant part is part of the recommendations. I would be from this place, if I was allowed to suggest that a committee of Parliament be formed to supervisore the implementation of what is written in the recommendations. Just one more piece of information. The draft report we received and the final report vary considerably, as the time gaff from the visit of the evaluator team to the final round of evaluation and plenary meeting is exactly one year. A year in Bosnia and Herzegovina in parliamentary life means as several years in some other countries. So Greco was also impressed by what was done over the past year. Therefore, with satisfaction from the delegations, she found that we did a good job thanks to the contributions of the two committees here, above all to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Commission for Human Rights and helped us to start at some point, the end of the fight against corruption. Fighting corruption is a pillar of justice and work. It's a stub of both justice and work. I would like to conclude this and thank again those who have taken the time and invested in preparing a delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Strasbourg for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9045	Thank you, Mr. Hadžimusić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I conclude the debate after this and suggest the following conclusions. First, before the conclusion I would recommend you from the Foreign Ministry to remove this tag “confidential”. You put it on and you can only take it off. I've been consulting a little bit. Otherwise, if Parliament could do so, I would suggest right now that we vote to take it down. So there is no reason to stand in my opinion, so the tag “confidential” and take it off freely and it should be available, as it is called to the public, and we in Parliament today did not even refer to this document as a confidential document. It's open here for everyone. So that's my personal, personal recommendation. I think fellow parliamentarians share this view and we don't need to vote on it. So that is Parliament's recommendation. So these are open things, and we'll best fight it when it's completely open. Thank you, of course, for this information that you have given both of us and the members of our two committees who have helped Bosnia and Herzegovina, after the original document has been discussed in our 67th Parliament, i.e. in our commissions, receive such assessments before the institution of the international institution that adopted the definitive report. Ladies and gentlemen, the possible conclusions are therefore the following, the proposal for a conclusion is as follows: 1. So the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly supports this document adopted by another body. We cannot adopt it, but therefore we can support the evaluation report, this final report of the evaluation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with proposals and suggestions from our two committees – the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum and 2. The conclusion proposed by Mr Hadžimusić. He said and I think it's a good suggestion that someone in front of this house should supervise the implementation of this final report. I think that's what these two commissions of ours should do. And so I propose that as a second point of this conclusion be the responsibility of our two commissions to the Constitutional and Human Rights Commission that they actually supervise the implementation of this final report. That would be my proposal, which includes, in fact, everything that we discussed today, and if there are no new proposals, I would ask you to vote on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I therefore find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, adopted a two-point conclusion on this agenda which I dictated in a stenogram that you understood and which you voted for. Thank you. We're going to the 9th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Nine. Measures to ensure self-sustainable development of the BiH Financial Audit Office have been sent to you on 16 July this year. It was delivered after the conclusion of this home that we adopted at the 12th session on 22 April 2003, also following the conclusion of the House. If you remember when we discussed the report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office for 2001, then we concluded that it was necessary to strengthen the Office of the Auditor-General as an important institution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we tasked them with delivering a proposal for measures to strengthen the institution and we got it. 68 Now it's our turn to determine what we're looking for, so I'm opening a debate. If no one is answering for a word, I am closing the debate and I suggest we take the measures proposed in this document that was delivered to us by the Office. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I therefore find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously, without votes against and without abstentions with 30 votes, has adopted measures to play the self-sustainable development of the Financial Business Audit Office of the BiH institutions, which has been delivered to us by the Office for Audit. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Ten. Information from the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the work of municipal electoral commissions and voter registration centres Information from the Election Commission was sent to you on 30 July this year. It's about information material. The goal is to see the situation in good time and take certain activities to welcome local elections. I've got this material, estimated it's not just enough to deliver to the College, but that it's necessary to get to know the House and this should serve you as information, because there are certain problems that are related to local electoral commissions and voter registration centres. And this only serves as information, and today it's a part of the agenda, but here's if there's any need to discuss this, I will, of course, allow him to do it. Mr. Belkić answered his word first. After that, Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9046	I don't have any ambition to open a special, especially broad discussion, but because of the facts and information given in this material, it's really hard to let go and simply miss or receive information and not react. So all the problems that are listed here, etc. According to the Commission's own finding, it stems from the fact that the Nep remains as they say the decadent legislative regulation in the domain of financing elections and the work of the electoral authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the status of municipal electoral commissions, etc. So, in my opinion, we should go in the direction of one conclusion to solve the problem of legal regulation in this area, that is, for these issues that are mentioned here. Of course, this can be resolved under the Election Law, and I think this is even more reason to put us in the process as soon as possible before the amendments and additions to the Election Law. Thank you very much. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9047	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9048	Although this is just the information that we need to get to know each other, it's still worrying that certain data is that they have municipalities here that have provided funds and we have 100 in fact and I don't know how many municipalities that haven't even provided funds for this election activity. I think it deserves to send a message from Parliament, or a law that would define and specify exactly how to approach registration and how to approach, for example, prepare for the election. Because I'm afraid again, if we keep on this, we'll get into a situation where we have choices that aren't choices. So I think Mr. Belkić's proposal is quite fine, because I say there are more of those, I think they have no means but those who have received the funds. And that depends on the quality, I'd say the choices that follow. I therefore join this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9049	Thank you. Mr Miloš Jovanović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9050	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, since it is the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't really know if it's worth talking about or criticising the commission anymore, and in the end I don't know who's to blame that we as the SDS MPs don't already have, it seems to me a few months of the fifth member, so I really want to ask at the very least, but I don't know who to ask, but it's probably in the jurisdiction of the Republic Election Commission, and at the very least it doesn't make any sense. What I'm just trying to say is, I think Mr. Bešlagić said it really worries that, it seems to me here is a river in the report that in 58 municipalities are not even planned at all, means neither planned, nor normally approved in budgets, and I think the still devastating situation is as far as voter registration centres are concerned. I think they said that almost five municipalities don't exist at all. There is a large number of meanings for municipalities where there is no possibility of telling the Republic Election Commission about new or reregistered voters that I really don't know how and how to make an appeal and from this place means to municipalities that they are a little more engaged means especially about registering voters, and in the end it means when planning the 2004 budget that this should mean especially paying attention, because the next local elections will probably mean financing municipalities. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9051	Sir, thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for a word. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9052	At the last 16th session, however, I wanted to ask one parliamentary question about this issue, but as that point was then removed from the agenda of my colleagues from the House of Peoples said they would ask there and it seems to me that they are, and I would find here that I am concerned or wondering whether the registration of voters in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a permanent category. Does that mean we'll never be able to, if we're not registered, if we register voters come to the polls and I say I just tell him you're not on the list. No matter how many cases you've registered, there have been as many cases as you want, so we won't be able to use ID, ID, passport never to prove our identity. I think that the category and we here from this House, from this parliamentary assembly, should be launched, because in other countries, and so it was in the first elections of 1990, voted and joined the elections with an identification document, usually with a ID card. So I have three sisters married in the Republic of Croatia, so things happen in Croatia today. If you're not on the ballot, you have a passport or I.D., they add up and vote like the others, not in some single box. So you're allowed to say that today, those who aren't registered, so then go there there has in each municipality one box going there if you want, but where these votes end up mostly not counting in the municipal election trust. So mine, here I suggest the electoral commission to act in this direction so that citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina can do their civic duty, and if they are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then they have an obligation to vote, not only the right to vote without registration. Well, as a voter, I think I've registered more often than a car. And I am a citizen of this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here I am constantly in some parliament since '90. and in municipal and county, both homes of the people, both representation homes. There is therefore no parliament in this country, except for Republika Srpska, your assembly, only there I have not been, in all parliaments and all levels I have been in parliament, and every time I have to register to have the right to vote at all. I wonder if it's possible to change that and if it is that one who needs to change it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9053	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, since no one has answered my word, I am, of course, concluding the debate. So I repeat what I said before I opened the debate, so it's about one serious warning from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission and the goal is that you all know it. You are therefore the most responsible people when it comes to the electoral process. Local elections are in the fall of next year, and then again in 2006 the general elections. There are some 71 people who would like to go before that, but they'll have to wait for 2006 anyway. So I wanted you to know this problem, but after this debate, I suggest the next conclusion. It is obvious, therefore, that representatives of this home should enter into talks with the BiH Election Commission to try to find a solution that means getting out of this situation regarding registration centres and local electoral commissions. I suggest conclusion one. To be in charge of our constitutional-legal commission, and what can Mirsad do, it can't be more natural than to be a constitutional-legal commission, so I think it's our constitutional-legal commission to hold a meeting with the Electoral Commission. BiH and then propose to this home what are the solutions that would actually be to get out of this situation where these things are mentioned in the report – normative or any other solution. I can't think of this right now, the right to tell you that I'm telling you, and I think it's the only possible conclusion. If there's no debate on the proposal, I'll put it on the plea. Who's in favor of this conclusion? I'll explain, that doesn't apply to this. I'll explain that to you now. I'll explain, I mean, I'll tell you, I'll tell you honestly what I think about it. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I therefore find that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 31 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, adopted this conclusion on the election commission's information. And as for the MEPs of the 5th SDS, which we have been missing for 3 months here in Parliament, I want to inform you, and the entire House that the Election Commission has requested the position of our constitutional and legal commission and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has sent it, here I see already, whether it has been sent to Branka. So it reached the chairman's homes, one position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that will be immediately, so tomorrow delivered to the Electoral Commission. On my part, therefore, again, I am speaking, I believe that one MP cannot, not wanting to open the debate, can not be delegates and MP in one Parliament in two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it would be best if Mr. Spasojević set himself up and said what he wants, therefore – whether a delegate to the House of Peoples or an MP in the House of Representatives so that the Election Commission could do its job, but the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission goes in the direction of resolving this situation and I will ask for talks with the Electoral Commission, or fellow Špirić, who will take the position of the chairman to resolve this issue as soon as possible, because it is more inadmissible that this House, believe it is not the 72 guilt of this College. The same day after the Paravac, after we determined the termination of the term of office of Paravac, wrote a letter to the Election Commission and informed them of the termination of the term of office and demanded the completion of this house in accordance with the Electoral Law. We don't approve of mandates. The mandates were approved by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission, and then the problem came forward. The man's already a delegate, and the next on the list, then he's not coming forward. The Electoral Commission did not find an explicit provision that would lead to a solution to the issues and then a copy of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the Election Commission, the College, the Election Commission, and we are in it now. So all I can say is not explaining to you, so you rightly ask that question, first of all, as chairman, I care that this house works in full capacity, as it has been elected in the elections, and here we will ask the Election Commission to immediately, without delay, resolve this issue. How, that's the election commission thing, I can't get into it. Thank you very much. Moving to the next 11th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications relating to Higher Education in the European region I am opening a debate on this agenda point. Who wants to talk? Then we'll go to the vote. Who's to give consent to ratification? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 31 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, has given consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications relating to Higher Education in the European Union in the European region. And now we've reached the 12th point of the agenda called Ad. 12. The Council of Ministers' information on Corridor Vc will wait just a few seconds for the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers to move towards the parliamentary hall, so I was told by people in charge. We could be in the O.R. for two or three minutes. Please. Home adopted. Five minutes break. So I'm pulling out, putting aside the decision on a five-minute break. We continue to work and move on to the 12th item of the agenda – Information from the Council of Ministers on Corridor Vc. 73 The session was just joined by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and I call on him to take his word. I'll be gone for two minutes, I'm begging you, Nikola, practice a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9054	Ladies and gentlemen, given that you have formulated a point as the Council of Ministers' Information, I must say that this is not information from the Council of Ministers, but that the information of the chairman of the Council of Ministers is based on questions raised by Agent Lagumdžija. It is true that this house has adopted the obligation that the Council of Ministers regularly report activities on the implementation of the Corridor Vc project, but at the last session you had full information from Minister Dokić and it is my pleasure to adopt the great majority. Since then, Malta has not done anything about this, since the Council of Ministers has already given a letter of reply and clarified at the last session of Parliament to Bosmal on their own-initiative offer. Surely the activities we now have are heading towards that something that the Council of Ministers had not done before us, and according to the Law on concessions, it was necessary to do to form a concession commission as the most important commission to lead further delivery activities, not only concessions for Corridor Vc but for all concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also have planned at the end of the month a session of the coordination team for the implementation of the Corridor Vc project where we should start activities to determine the final, final route of the Corridor Vc highway. I'm sure it won't be a co-ordination team, but it'll be done by experts, but under the leadership of the co-ordination team. The question specifically of Lagumdzija's representative was related to the World Bank's offer as he said at the first stage they were giving funds, and then later explained that it was still credit funds, the truth of the IDA category with favourable credit funds. I've prepared that information. So we must firstly return to the 16th session of the Council of Ministers, held on 26.6 months this year where the Council of Ministers accepted a draft letter on the preliminary acceptance of the own-initiative offer by Bosmal and left the working group to technically complete the response based on all the discussions held at that Council of Ministers meeting. That task force later did her job. However, the Council of Ministers accepted the primary idea that we should give Bosmal a period of 4 months to prepare EUR 300 million to finance the feasibility of the study, the implementation project and prepare the funds for the purchase of land on the previously established route. So this happened 26.6 and 4, 14.7. Pardon me, and in my cabinet this letter came to 30.7., as I recall Mrs. Orsalija sent a letter to me on behalf of the World Bank as the chairman of the Council of Ministers in which, among other things, it warns that making a physibilities study is the most important element for a general commitment to the construction of the Corridor Vc highway and offers to start talks on the possibility that Bosnia and Herzegovina from the IDA 74 credit project for the management of the road safety use of funds and do the physical study itself. I'll read you the letter I answered to Mrs. orsala and I'll read it to you in full text if it's not long, and I think it'll explain what it's about. So, Your Honor, I would like to thank you for your letter of 14.7th of 2003, stating the World Bank's position on the implementation of the Corridor Vc Road Construction Project. I would like to inform you that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the current credit capacity of the country, has approved the concession option as the only real possibility of realising this project at this time. Even more so, a potential concessionaire must accept that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not ready to provide any guarantees, both financially and on the number of cars passing the highway. For the first time, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina received a concrete offer from Bosmal, which accepts the increasingly mentioned restrictions. The answer we gave to Bosmal does not mean a concession in any way, but represents a strong support of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposed idea. The concession will be awarded exclusively in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Bosnia and Herzegovina concession law. The action that precedes the possible concession procedure is the development of a feasibility study. The component of Bosmal's offer is to produce complete project documentation, including a feasibility study. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers has set a four-month deadline to provide funds, giving Bosmal a four-month deadline to provide funds for this purpose so that we do not start negotiations on the World Bank's credit fund. Since it is a very complex and very important project of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I, we are personally convinced that Bosmal will use relevant world experts to produce a feasibility study. In any case, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will ask the bidder to make the feasibility study according to standards acceptable to the World Bank. So that's the answer I've sent to the World Bank representatives and feedback that they're very pleased with this response. Today, there was also talk that Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking these credits, could be in a position for it to be the owner of the feasibility study. The letter we sent to Bosmal tells us that even if Bosmal is to finance a feasibility study, it will also be owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here may be some answers to today’s issues. I just want to say that the Council of Ministers will really inform about everything that is relevant, I did not feel that this letter is relevant for this home and that this House should inform 75 of every letter that we receive about Corridor Vc, but here is because a representative of Lagumdžija insisted and since you have accepted that you have information in, from this segment I have submitted it, and I strongly express the Council of Ministers' commitment that all the activities we are going to do and that we consider important and relevant for the project that we will draw conclusions as you have reached and submit reports to this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9055	I thank President Terzić. Here comes the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We've received the requested information. Is there any question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers that something is unclear, while the chairman is there to answer. Here's Mr. Lagumdžija, so Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9056	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, so I said only Mr. Chairman, and then the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I also referred to the Council of Ministers, but since there is no one here, I stayed with the chairman of the Council of Ministers. On July 17th, therefore, some 20 days ago, the parliament adopted the conclusion that this project as a project of exceptional importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers will regularly inform parliament on the activities of the project. And we unanimously adopted that. Since it is a truly capital project for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is very good that we are informed today, even in this way about the project itself. I must show my regret for informing ourselves in this way by two basiss. First because I didn't think there would be such a problem on us with the Council of Ministers just an assessment for the neighbour to inform us, and second, I'm expressing my regret for being informed like this. At the very beginning of today's work chairing it, you can look at the magnetogram and say it will provide us with the correspondence of which it is concerned. We didn't get that correspondence so far, as we didn't even get Mrs. orsalija's correspondence which you now, if I understood correctly in one part of the quote, so we didn't get the correspondence that you had completely, and you announced it to us and I can even understand why you didn't deliver it to us, but I wouldn't want to make any speculation because I expect it to be delivered here now. Namely, the World Bank did not react for the first time since the response of Bosmal. To remind you in May of this year, you could see it from the means of informing the World Bank mission was here, talking about, not only this loan, but for many others, as well as all the activities that need to result, I hope that at the end of this year we get a serious stand-by arrangement that will allow this country's entire economy to catch its breath for some 76 years. At that time, in May this year's talks with what we could see in the means of information, the World Bank representatives also spoke with transport ministers, or communication with both the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the entity ministers showed their readiness to finance a feasibility study. You know that well. So in May this year. You are now informing us that at the 16th session held on 26.6., so it is best to say the least later that you accept the idea of accepting this offer, which I do not dispute. On the contrary, I want to say behind this pay phone that it is to me, that I believe that the offer that came from Bosmal, that it is good that what happened, because it has launched a whole process from the dead spot that it fell into, not your fault, not anyone's, but the fact that the concession law was published in the Official List, if I am not mistaken in 7.11.2002, and the Council of Ministers couldn't have in your assembly safely at the very beginning to take these things right away, but it's only normal that it turned to that project at some time in which we are now. So I want very clearly to underline that the last Council of Ministers' meeting couldn't even do the activities that you're now talking about, because there was no law on concessions that regulated this project as a state project for the first time since Dejton until today. And I think it's a big step, and it's a good thing that you entered that arrangement based on what was before. However, 26. you are making a decision to accept the whole project and thus interpret the decision as closing the door for all other activities over a period of 4 months, which I believe is completely unnecessary and is in complete contradiction with the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll be clear what I'm talking about. In fact, you were 26.6. when you made that decision you had the opportunity, your Minister of Communication and the Entity Ministers of Communication had the possibility, I repeat here not to be given out of the World Bank's new loan, but from the old bank's credit arrangement already existing to finance, I'm only talking about a feasibility study, so it wasn't about any new arrangement, but it was simply about the World Bank's readiness three months ago to activate the process of producing a feasibility study conducted by international experts and our experts the best we have. And some period that is common for such things that probably lasts about 4, 6, or 8 months, but let's say that it should be measured at some interval of 6 months we could have had the results of a feasibility study by the end of this year which would completely match the deadline given to Bosmal and anyone else. What's the difference? The difference is drastic. The difference is that you have now, as you informed us here Bosmal has made an obligation with 300 million Euros for the physibilities of the study, quote you – implementation project and purchase of land. Regardless of what you said in the letter that Bosmal would give it to us for nothing to be ours, and if it doesn't come to work with full respect, nothing exists for nothing. Nothing. In particular, there are no commercial arrangements for free. What is also important, the feasibility study that would be done from, I repeat, the funds that would be under our control that we already have available, which has ratified this parliament, would allow us to come up with a feasibility study that has international credibility, which would also help Bosmal, I am sure 77 as an institution that is seeking funds, would help them to come up with cheaper capital that are trying to collect, because behind such a project there is a feasibility study that has atest of the World Bank and full involvement of domestic experts. We as a state and welcome a partner from Malaysia as well as anyone else could come cheaper to the capital needed to build Corridor Vc and all that follows. In that case, there is no conflict, there is no conflict between the feasibility study that we, we, I repeat, as a state with the help of the World Bank from an existing loan, there is no conflict between that and the offer of Bosmal. He would have just introduced more order into the whole project and what is more important would have kept the state in its driving position, because at that time we would have owned a feasibility study by conditions which are not a gift, but in the financial world almost treated as such, for one simple reason which is, as far as I know, because I only had the chance to be familiar with that arrangement, that World Bank loan that you have mentioned here, if I'm not mistaken, it's CR 36266/BOS from the family management of the Sefrey Project and that the ownership by the existing management of the safet loan, which, as far as I remember, I don't have any more control of that information than I did a year ago when we ratified it in this parlmanet, which allowed and which, as far as I remember, as I do, is correcting me with a $3 year's worth. There is no cheaper means on the planet for those purposes than the ones that are now involved. So it's completely unserious that we don't enter a state into such an arrangement that's not at all the opposite, I repeat, contrary to the interests of any investor who should have his legitimate and legal interests here to repay the funds he has invested, even when he claims to be gifts. In particular, I don't think there's any need for us to go into any kind of openness, to open any new issues in a situation where we really have, I repeat, once again, Bosmal's offer has given us a whole new perspective that we haven't had before. With this, we put a large questionnaire on the entire Bosmal project unnecessarily with your approach to the whole project, and people are also well-intentioned to ask what it is. Unnecessarily. Then we proved ourselves to the World Bank to be someone under the grains doing. Which there's no need. And there's no reason for that, and we're doing it all in a situation where in three months, we're running out of the stand-by arrangement that we have now and which one of us is, I'm sure we'll have a lot more fun. That's exactly why I think this has been done in a completely inappropriate way and that it's just opened up unnecessary questions that someone said there, talking about this and I totally agree with it, so I can use it as my own so that there wouldn't be a misunderstanding, I'm standing behind it, you see the way in which we refuse to be the owners of information and we run the whole project talking about two things. Either there's a crime behind this, or there's incompetence. I really believe at this point it's incompetence, because I have no reason to believe it's something else. And the question is also why, why, why is it that we all seem together to be in a situation where the project has great perspectives that the citizens of this country expect a lot, why are we running this project so that it will end up in chocolate and mud in the worst possible way if we continue like this. That's why Mr. 78, the chairman with full responsibility, I would like to invite you to accept, without any intention whatsoever, that what we insist on asking you these questions, this is for the best of intentions. There is no man in this country who sees this country as his own, who is against getting us to the fastest possible way to the VC highway. Please, Mrs. Fatima, I don't know what you're feeling while you're listening to me, but either way, if you say it feels like I'm well-intentioned, I'm glad you felt it. Yeah, yeah. In any case, I would ask that today, however, we conclude that in the next session we are also informing ourselves of this in an appropriate way, that, with all the documentation as MPs by correspondence which is relevant to this, it is a project of the century, that you inform us of this and that when you refuse or accept any offers on this subject that Members of Parliament are informed in the best possible way. For the public and for those who don't feel anything and don't know what I'm talking about, let me remind you, a trial of feasibility is the most prominent part of this whole project. The feasibility study depends on every step. The feasibility study will answer the question whether toll, thank Mr. Džaferović, whether the toll will be paid only by us or by the toll for an investor who is not a state to pay our children and our grandchildren. Minimum. And it's a huge responsibility for all of us. From this decision, whether the state will conduct a feasibility study or someone else depends on the answer to the question of how many generations this will pay. I responsibly claim that the way you're going is completely irresponsible. Because otherwise we're entering a crime-related sphere. And that's why I'd ask you once again to get all this right and see how we can keep an investor like Bosmal, to keep anyone who wants to participate in this, because there is no investor of those who've been showing up around this lately who can handle this whole project on their own. And this must be done to the state, to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to no one else. This feasibility study should, among other things, give the best investment scenario, short-term, long-term, medium-term. He's got to give a full financial trajectory to the whole project. And I'm not going to talk about the examples, but it's not normal, and it's in a letter that you told us about the feasibility study for the investor. And the answer that was given and the CRA charged Eronet for the study that set the price of the third license is nothing more than giving... we made a deal. You let me, you let us build an illegal crime shop in our alley or atara, and then you let us go. Mr. Džaferović, I am obliged from this pay phone to say this and for your sake, if not for your sake, for the sake of your grandchildren, certainly, if God has good luck.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9057	Don't worry about them. There are people who care about them if they're God.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9058	Don't be what they say.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9059	Woe to them if ye take care of them 79
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9060	to the end of the heart for one simple reason, Mr. Džaferović, the way this has been led so far deserves to be fully thanked here after this Council of Ministers for what has been done so far. It would be so in every country on the planet that's normal. Since we're not a normal country on the planet, that's not going to happen with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9061	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Come on, I won't replicate to you. Sir, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, then you are. He needs to intervene as chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go. Fatima needs to intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9062	Mr. Lagumdžija, as much trouble as he opens up, I really apologize to Mr. Belkić. I'll forget half the stuff he opened. First of all, in a good old custom, everything is criminalized from a safe source that is close and stems from Mr. Lagumdžija. It is normal for me that Mr Lagumdžija does not trust this parliamentary majority, it is normal that there is no trust in this council of ministers, although I have identified the well-intentioned, there are many and malicious insinuations. I accept every good-willed thing, and we will certainly take every good-willed person into consideration and follow it, after all. However, it is ominous that the conspiracy theory that someone here has agreed to make a parallel with Eronet, to make various insinuations. It's also possible that even today, an interview that I gave in Avaz inspired Mr. Lagumdžija to finish his presentation, and let's go if I'm an inspiration to him, then it's not so bad. In any case, to answer the first question, a general question about the World Bank. I'm not sure why one MP would, especially if he was called Zlatko Lagumdžija and he was the chairman of the Council of Ministers and a member of the Council of Ministers, so he knows very well what the World Bank's views on Corridor Vc are. So not about how it will be built, who will build, whose capital it will be, but about the need for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have Corridor Vc. It is as clear to him as I do that the World Bank has a huge reserve and not to tell the reserve, but they are absolutely against it. They believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not need the corridor, that Bosnia and Herzegovina, even more so, is not only Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and neither Bosnia and Herzegovina is absolutely necessary to respect or look for a way to build that corridor. They think we should fix some of these roads we have. They feel that we need to fix the railways and we are not different at all, only the problem is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no money to fix the railways, and the World 80 Bank will not give any credit, even unfavourable, and I responsibly argue that the World Bank has an apriori reserve according to whether Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a Corridor Vc or not. So we went one normal way. This Council of Ministers, whether it could have been done by the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers before the Council of Ministers, etc. We first led Corridor Vc to our activities that it was a regional project. Hungary, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have made public, clear and loud their need for the corridor to be made. And when you ask me if I am to tell the World Bank, forgive me, gentlemen, but we know in Bosnia and Herzegovina what we need, or to accept their negative views on Corridor Vc, then I am to say, forgive me, gentlemen, but we know what we need in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Surely under conditions such as those dictated by the economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is that Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be financially in debt during this period and cannot give any guarantees. We respected it. And that's where we're clean to the World Bank. The key question is why the World Bank appears so intensely with the offer of credit funds to produce project documentation. The moment the Council of Ministers launched the activities, in fact, when we turned into a peaceful surface of a pond called Corridor Vc into something that started to wave and start to clean up and turn into clean water. Why is this happening now? It happens because they probably have their own interests. I will not ask what their interest is, but I also do not think that representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina should seek any interest and defend any interest of the World Bank in this matter. I have to say, calling a stand-by arrangement and tying to the World Bank isn't safe here. The Stend-by arrangement is signed with the IMF, and someone who talks to this speaker about authorities, current authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, losing credibility at the World Bank, I must remind them that they have been here for two years and for this speaker, but in the executive government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that they have provided that the World Bank plans only 30 million IDA loans for next year. You know why? Because the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not withdraw 230 million, in fact 250 million approved IDA loans, because they did not have the strength to agree on Pitak, neither Sosak nor all those, around Pauer 3, about all those projects approved by the World Bank and people in the World Bank, it is not clear that the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have not withdrawn those funds in the past two years because they could not politically agree within Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that means I'm saying this because I was in the World Bank a month ago, so 30 million IDA loans are scheduled for next year for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Bosnia and Herzegovina with that can only be on the beggar stick. So if we're talking about losing Bosnia and Herzegovina's dignity in the World Bank, at least we don't have to say those who broke you down to that extent that we are currently in the worst category of countries that can access IDA loans. I'm just undermining -- looking for conspiracy theory, looking for mistakes in this what we're doing with Bosmal with well-intentioned, but only those who are well-intentioned suggestions, let's say and the criticism is counterproductive at this point. Bosnia and Herzegovina currently has 81 ministers who are responsible for protecting Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests. We project with Bosmal, and that can be convinced by anyone who reads the letter we sent to Bosnia and Herzegovina, are solely protecting the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And all the elements put there in that letter as a clear announcement to Bosmal what we expect from him and what he can expect from us are talking about protecting Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests. If you're asking me about this loan, regardless of whether it was approved, is he there, isn't he there, why should Bosnia and Herzegovina negotiate with the World Bank in these four months for any credit debt, and let me tell you here it's going to be from $2 million to $3 million to how much the World Bank's assessment is so that it can remain a feasibility study, why should we do that if we can get that study for free. And I don't understand why the question is whether Bosmal will be doing a physical study. If anything, I read you a letter where the Council of Ministers clearly stands. The physibilities of the study can only be done by those who are professionally qualified for this and the physibilities of the study will be done on the basis of the World Bank's standard. And that is what we have already announced in the letter to Bosmala and what we will not depart from. Why now is the Council of Ministers now asking whether the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina are protected or not. I know all this goes with one campaign that the opposition is campaigning for new elections. It's the right, legitimate right of every opposition. But I think that the Corridor Vc project, given that there are a lot of negative attitudes, let's say in world terms whether Bosnia and Herzegovina should or should not, and not just Bosnia and Herzegovina, I underline Croatia and Hungary. I think this project should still bring us together, regardless of the position and the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9063	Thank you. Fatima asked for it. You're giving her up. Mr. Belkić has his word. It's not a replica, it's now, it's what it is, it's now, it's a response to the replica, Mr. Lagumdžija, it's called. Please. That's the answer to the replica. That's the answer to the replica. Here you go. You have very short time to answer and please take care of the timing of all of us. Respect a little time for us here, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9064	Mr. Terzić, it is only natural that I do not trust this parliamentary majority and it is no secret. However, I remind you once again that you have not responded. In May, you were offered to your Minister and Ministers of Entity to study feasibility from the World Bank's funds, existing ones. In June, you make a decision, you're listed in July, and you're answering now, and you're neglecting the whole world with a question. Known, corridors, views on the World Bank Corridor that you've brought here and past the Council of Ministers, are simply not true. You said here that the World Bank believes Bosnia and Herzegovina does not need Corridor Vc. That's not true. So that's not true. And the past Council of Ministers also had their say about it, that's why we brought it, led to the concession law, that it was a state project. But the World Bank has a position like you, and so do I that Corridor Vc can't be made out of Budget, that it can't be made on the basis of state guarantees. That attitude exists. And there's a view that Corridor Vc can be built on the basis of an appropriate concessionary if he's willing to invest in it along with the state monitoring to the extent that it can. You have also claimed here that you have built this project regionally, you, this council of ministers. You can deny me as much as you want, I think that's cute, but it's probably funny, least of all, for one simple reason, I think you'll say that you invented the Balkans, that you invented Europe, the Western Balkans. So don't, you didn't invent this project as a reginal. The VC Corridor project is much older than the Council of Ministers in which I was sitting, and let alone the one where you and Mr Raguž know very well because he was sitting in the Council of Ministers before me and he inherited that corridor as a regional.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9065	But I made it regional.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9066	Okay. Great. Great. It is also not true that 250 million loans from the World Bank of IDA credit have not been spent, but you have put into it Pauer 3 loans that have been withdrawn for years and that have finally been accepted and signed and ratified by the Council of Ministers in this House. So you deliberately broke both Pauer 3 loans and the IDA loans you mentioned. Also, I've really never claimed anywhere that this is a conspiracy and this is a crime. I listed it as one possibility. I've left a slight circumstance to be about incompetence or possibly seeing about your extraction through the replacement of thesis that you're making here. So I really don't think you understand or pretend you don't understand, because it's a much better variant than it does. And in the end
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9067	This wasn't a bit pretentious, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, just so I can tell you, and you continue Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9068	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. And as for the interview you've given, I've read your interview in Liberation, I've read your statement in the Independent daily and what you mention, I really don't know, because I don't deal with information from the sewerage from the container. I am in the field of information from relevant documents and I would ask you to forward the documents you told us at the beginning of today 83 sessions that you will give us the correspondence you have on this subject and inform us about this correspondence. And since Mr. Džaferović is already nervous, he is in a hurry to hand over Mr. Špirić's presidency, I will release you from further commenting on what would be
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9069	Of course. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I was in a hurry, not in a hurry, but only Friday night at the 24th term. That's why I can't be in a hurry. Friday night at 24. So that's one thing, and I believe you're informing yourself from the container and this ordinary, me, me. You have other sources of information that are clear to us and it is clear to the entire, whole Bosnian Herzegovina public. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9070	Dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, MPs of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, when they supported the request and the conclusion that the regular Assembly was reporting on the course of activities that are being led to say so under the Corridor Vc project, did not really expect to get a practical situation where we would attend as its observers to the dialogues of the current and former chairman, that correspondence would be seen, etc. Here we have come that the former third chairman is also slowly mentioned, but for the better, of course, for the good, that MPs simply observe inferiorly simply are not available to them the information which, by the circumstances, is available to the people who are in charge of the dialogue here. And everyone's saying, or these are saying that this is a special national interest and that we are absolutely all committed to this project, etc. So, after the introduction, I really ask you, I really ask you that in the future, we will continue to look for, we expect information, but in the future we get this written information and to avoid this kind of debate about these projects, because one thing I'm sure of, one thing I'm sure, regardless of what relevant information is being said here, one thing I'm sure is that we're going to drive everyone alive out of this country. That no one smart will talk to them at all, because they'll be confused, they won't know what this is about. So, and I ask the chairman to inform us at what time we are in the process of establishing this Commission concession, what is, is the problem High Representative, is the problem of the procedure, who should propose. It's been going slow for a long time, and I'm sure it would help us. And I ask everyone else that if we agree that this is the general interest of all of us to care for grandchildren and great-grandsons, let us act constructively, of course, with the full responsibility of the Council of Ministers for made or inactions and free us from proving each other's offer of paper, arguments of date etc. Thank you very much. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9071	Thank you too, Mr. Belkić. You're looking for an intervention, Mrs. Leho. Here you go. Mrs. Fatima Leho. Seada, you asked for the same word, so Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Špirić, then we'll see, maybe I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9072	Chairman, MPs and guests, I feel the need to say a few words to Ambassador Lagumdžija. I feel I need to say a few words as an MP to Lagumdžija. I don't know if anyone told you MP Lagumdžija that you've become the opposition now, and you're no longer in position for your finger. Because to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, after all these accidents that hit him, really more pressure and threats under the skin can't. In my opinion today, by addressing the Prime Minister directly to the Council of Ministers, you said to the chairman – you will tell me so that you can respond at that time. And that's a threat. I think you've replaced this speaker of Parliament with the cathedral and us with the freshman. That's not what we are. See how many gray heads there are. And these are the people sent by the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this council of ministers is also voted in this parliament. So far, we have been working for the past seven months, how much this Parliament has done to end a lot of things that you could have ended in the last term. Niko's here today, and when we talked about security policy, he didn't say it was a year and a half in the procedure, so it's only since half of 2001, so it's only over now. So no one respects you for not doing something. It's also about wages. You know that in December, before the appointment of the new council of ministers, you increased your salary. I believe that the resolution that you have proposed to reconsider, I agree and agree that the salaries are high and that they should be corrected. I agree with that. But that's what you did in December, and it's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9073	Mrs Fatima
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9074	Mr. Chairman, I've been listening here for seven months to Mr. Lagumdžija who talks to all of us every time he comes out for 45 minutes. For three months, I kept a pen to write down something wise that the professor would say. I didn't write anything down. Please, I feel necessary as a man, no one picked me up from the street or brought me here, for me people voted the same way for the others. I ask you to tell the man that it no longer works for me, because I, my eardrums, have gone beyond his political lies that fire every one, at the beginning of every session and at the end of every session. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9075	Thank you, Fatima. I'm just trying to tie the debate to the agenda point and, of course, react when it's necessary, although it's true that Mrs Leho wasn't burdening herself with this pay phone today with some things that would be independent, but we're moving on. Mrs. Palavrić has her word, so Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9076	Dear Chairman, no matter how hard we try to stick to the point of the day, we still can't act like we're sitting in our ears. So we need to look back at what Mr. Lagumdžija said about this pay phone in his unlimited act. I am personally concerned that Mr Lagumdžija's every move, the move of the current Council of Ministers, is associated with thieving, crime and somehow looks like a continuation of the past 2001 and 2002 when the Bosniak Corps was declared terrorists and when they were installed political processes. The truth is that Mr. Lagumdžija still manages the Federation police today, but that's no reason to impute the Council of Ministers what he did after this speaker. The second epithet attributed to the current Council of Ministers is incompetence, it is mild to say that it is likely, it is rude, and how long has the Council of Ministers headed with Mr Lagumdžija been able to show the results of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its economies in 2001 and 2002 and relations with the whole world. Next thing I know, Mr Lagumdžija, Mr Lagumdžija, who acts not as if he is a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, but as if he were a representative or representative of the IMF or of the World Bank. I just want to remind you of a case from the past when it comes to the World Bank, represented by Mr. Lagumdžija here. Let's remember the highway of Sarajevo-Sarajevo-Zenica, let's remember that at that time there was an offer for people to accept to build that highway. And a wonderful miracle, the World Bank shows up and says, she's gonna stand behind the French firm, give her a job, and we're gonna give her a loan, and we're gonna solve it, we're gonna get to Zenica on the highway. And we listened to the World Bank, we gave a job to the French firm, the World Bank didn't give a cred, the French firm retreated, and we ran out of highway. The same situation is repeated this time when it comes to Bosmal. I simply cannot understand that someone who loves the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who wants the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to come to a better life and the possibility of working and earning really doesn't allow a single step forward. I'm not going to list the failures of the former Council of Ministers here, but I don't like it either, I can't stop Mr. Lagumdžija from speaking, let him speak, but I don't like watching every move of the current Council of Ministers under a microscope. I have full confidence in the Council of Ministers, and I want them to keep doing what they started. For the first time since the Dayton Agreement, we have 86 situations for the Council of Ministers to decide by consensus and take significant steps forward when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9077	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Please have the right to a replica. Here's a minute of replica. Please, please, please, you have the replica of Mr. Lagumdžija by the Rules of Procedure you have the right in the time prescribed. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9078	I owe it to the public and for a magnetogram to say here I'm the most brutally accused of being either the protectors of the blackest criminals in this country or they just don't know what they're talking about, because here I've been told that I've made the Bosniak people a terrorist, that I've organized a mounted process in the last two years, to run the police today. He also said here that I can't be prevented from speaking, which is the obvious desire of what would be the most desirable thing to do, and you will be able to prevent me from speaking only Mrs. Palavrić and you, as you are only when I'm no longer physically. Thank you, I mean, I've been expecting it from you to be alive and well, although you don't. It is also said that I represent the World Bank, which is not true, but obviously you don't know what you're talking about, because here I represent the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I represent the the thesis that we should of the world's most favourable funds, which in this case are the World Bank's funds to pay for something that is of interest to the citizens of this country, not to do so from commercial means. You also said here that the French firm was supposed to get a World Bank loan, which I don't know much about, because your government did it in that previous meeting, and our government in the previous meeting was a federal one, and it showed that it could be made out of its own means of roads in one of Sarajevo-Zenica's shares. And finally, let me make it very clear to you. You'll find an investor here as much as God wants you to give them this Marin court here and tell you that for nothing, they'll make you a project documentation of what this place looks like and then they'll make it for their money so you don't have to give them anything. Here's Beriz here who knows how people offered it. Normally, it's not done, but canton, city, the state does project documentation, and then it sets up a tender and organizes construction. If you think it's some science to find people here today who are going to make your best part of the country a free feasibility study, then you really don't know what you're into. 87 And because the people have chosen you, they have bound me to respect you, and when I have spoken to the Prime Minister, I repeat, that he will answer me to what I ask him, according to the Constitution, according to the law; for the people have chosen me as you have chosen me. You're not happy that he chose me, I totally understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9079	She didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9080	Where I'll be happy to see you talking from this pay phone. I do. You even spoke English talking to me. English looks better on you, believe me. So, let me cut it short. The Mr. Chairman of each council of ministers will have to answer to the MPs of this parliament chosen by the people. There's no dilemma at all. And if it's unclear, I'm sorry. I got mixed up with my colleague Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9081	Okay. I think it's over. Let's go. Now it is for the word Mr Nikola Šprić, and let Mr Ivo Miro Jović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9082	Madam Chairman, the appreciation of colleagues and colleagues, MPs, you see, of course I didn't want to answer sooner. Anything is possible in this country. It is possible when someone is seeking information that instead of information becomes an issue of Parliament's debate, such as a fellow Member of Lagumdžija as an MP, asking for information, it becomes an issue of debate, which unfortunately tells us what kind of environment we are in. I can agree and not agree with my colleague Lagumdžija, it's my right, I can mind his thumb holding him. We started to seem to think about who looks, what side he's sleeping on, and at least we're dealing with what we voted to be the point of the agenda. I'm sorry there were bad words, too, because my colleague Lagumdžija, with the intention of seeking this item of the agenda, didn't deserve it by my assessment. What's good, and of course about investment, and I know something, is that everything when it comes to strategic investment is public and transparent. The sooner we do that, the sooner we stop the need for this kind of debate. And I was the first time Mr. Lagumdžija spoke of this corridor saying he'd asked a lot of good questions. And thousands of good questions. And that's going to be questions that when he doesn't ask Lagumdžija it would be logical to ask people out, I don't think we should share in the government and the opposition here, that Lagumdžija didn't even do it at any point, at any point mentioning it. And last time Minister Dokić submitted the information, I said I did not get the information even though many praised something that did not look like information to me. And today he's right to chair when he says I submit information as chairman of the 88-minister council. Last time, he filed informationDokić I guess, as a minister. I'm interested in the information of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has its own decision-making procedure when it adopts the information it provides to this Parliament. Well, we're not gonna have a single race here every time he asks me to, and he's verbally informing us, and the papers can show I don't know what else. That's why I think for the sake of responsibility they have to be according to future generations there must be a written clue and it must be transparent and must be made public, because whenever an MP asks to be given it. Unfortunately, we don't seem to have it yet. It doesn't matter, those who have spoken about how many years there will be concessions and it doesn't matter if the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are going to pay 5 euros or 15 euros on that car. But she has to have input parameters that we need to know who they are. So who's crazy to report as an investor without making a physical study that suits him, but it'll depend on the price of the pass, on the number of cars. And the Council of Ministers can't be fair to say we don't guarantee whether it's car number or not. And that's why I think it's a state project where it's more cost-effective to take and a commercial loan and make a physibilities study, but that the state owns that document. And it's not good for a country like Bosnia and Herzegovina, including all the states of transition, and even underdeveloped countries to have an arrogant relationship with international financial institutions and when they don't like their attitudes. And that's why I think it's important to keep the hard words to anyone, but to respect the right of people to be informed and not to degrade this project and those who intend to participate in it and those who think that everything should be ruined. In that sense, I think we need to inform ourselves occasionally, to be written information, and it is known how the Council of Ministers informs this Parliament. If there is information, if we want to be informed and to adopt such information. I'd really like to ask you to discuss what's on the agenda, to keep your words to each other. We're gonna need it, we're gonna need nice words, because the economic situation is ugly. We will not help the citizens if we execute Mr Lagumdžija today, but simply show that we are unable to answer the task of why people have chosen us both as people and as MPs in this House. In that sense, I think Mr Lagudmžij was right when he asked for the agenda point, and I think even after today's information that I didn't get information from the Council of Ministers. And in that sense, once again my request to get written information transparent with all the correspondence that Mr Lagudmdžij insisted on, whether anyone likes it or not. Authorities are chosen to work. The task of opposition people to give them tasks in the interest of these citizens, as they think they are doing in the interest of the citizens. But with a lot of, I mean nicer words than people are ready today to be experts with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9083	The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9084	I really belong to politicians, but I have a threshold of demagogy that I can't possibly cross. What Mr. Špirić is saying, I absolutely don't understand. It's possible the session lasts too long. At the beginning of the session, one of the MPs gets up and asks for information, oral information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. The chairman of the oral information, and now that's not good enough, needs written information from the Council of Ministers. And all that to happen in one day when we meet this house. Well, really, either I didn't get it right, or it's still about replacing the thesis over and over again in some active position that the opposition is doing something to the opposition. Mr. Špirić, the key thing about highways, if you didn't know, forgive me, but I have to tell you, is who's going to guarantee that they're going to cross that highway so many and so many years ago. Whoever guarantees it, if it doesn't pass that many cars, it's due to pay. The key trap that the colleagues in Croatia have fallen into is that they gave the guarantee to the French firm and are now paying that guarantee. So when we talk about protecting Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests, I guess I'm talking to people who know what this is about, and when I say that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not give any guarantee, it means absolutely that the most important interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least in this financial section, is absolutely protected.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9085	Thank you. Now here's the replica. Stab Mr. Špirić. You'll all be in line by Friday to 24 has time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9086	Unfortunately, when I speak in the tone I just spoke, then it seems that individuals don't understand me, and I still have to go back to old good practice to be much more direct in order for people to understand me. It seems quite sir presidencies that time and length of time have left a mark on your memory. I said you were fair when you said I was submitting information as chairman, not information from the Council of Ministers. And I liked what you said. And I said, I got that right. No, no, I said I had the right to seek information from the Council of Ministers because I know how to decide everything and also information about strategic investment. It is not the same as when you submit information and, say, you have an agreement that the Council of Ministers simply adopts by voting. It's also known what the Council of Ministers is voted on. The second thing is that here Parliament has allowed the ministers to come out here and defend the projects and present the Council of Ministers' position without sitting, so that you decide how the Rules of Procedure reads. And I felt it thinking of giving a ton to some new practice in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when a man gives you a finger, you take your hand. That's why we all have to fit the rules and the procedures. Whether they're tight or comfortable, I'm less interested in 90. And I also have to tell you when it comes to investment so that at some point when you're free, you feel free to call, so I'll tell you how much I know about investing in roads, so you'll face it with me. I know if you don't get through enough cars that the project can be inconclusive. The price of rentability or incompetence will be paid by that unfortunate guy who's sitting in the car and we say because it's inert, there won't be EUR 5, but it'll be 15. Then who are you going to tell that we weren't guaranteed? Is this cattle in Bosnia and Herzegovina or are citizens the state should take care of. Oh, yeah. But they must, of course, be known conditions to take and therefore it is good to exercise the study for the sake of the states in their jurisdiction. That's why it's good, and that's why you had that suggestion from the World Bank. Well, the World Bank didn't give that suggestion because she hates Bosnia and Herzegovina. And Mr. Lagumdžija is right when he says – if we are doing a physibilities study with, if nothing mildly looks at the World Bank, it is a favor to get investors easier and to make the project easier and it is in the interest of Bosmal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9087	Nikola's time is up for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9088	Thank you very much. But I would pray when we replicate that we are not talking, but that we simply know that information is submitted not so much as anyone knows, whether it's understood or not. And you have to be here, I need to be honest with you in accordance with procedures and rules. You are the chairman of the Council of Ministers here, Zlatko Lagumdžija is an MP. When it's the other way around, I'll act the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9089	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović answered the word. Here you go. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself, discussion. Please, I don't know. They're picking up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9090	Thank you, Mr. President. I say hello to everyone one more time. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers was not here, I welcome him, and here I little came out the advocate, a little new or different light on the subject – we have been here for 2 hours and we have been very, I think you must admit everyone away from the topic. This is where we talked about mutual human relations, relationship to each other, etc. We're used to a distinguished representative of Lagumdžija starting a session. Here's the first time he's gonna need it today. I think he's gonna have to come to a conclusion. I'm glad to hear that. From my discussion there will probably be a thought that I support, believe me, I don't support anyone, although I come from the most difficult part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in an hour from Sarajevo I come home. 65 thousand inhabitants, we have a Turkish and austrougar raldrum in four municipalities. And in every version when I read 91 of the information that's going to build that here, people are going to start saying the unfortunate corridor you have the guts, as the people say or the crossing of a highway called Kiseljak. So, don't check my love for my country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, what I'm going to say, but make sure my children get where they want to be. I just want to come home and tell them I'm very interested that as soon as possible, if they can make a car road by morning. We've spent too much time here today in which, if you're talking about the car road, then the criteria of the concession are already on the wallpaper. And it seems to me that most people should have told the public the plight of that job. Let's see what's been done and what needs to be done. And on the award of the concession, I hope a public tender will be called for. At least I think I've been working for years in public enterprises. Three thousand marks, if I want to buy furniture in my office not to discuss the competition, I think I'll end up in jail. We're talking about a project for several centuries for this country and its inhabitants, and it seems to me like it's all going to go to some small or miniature door together. A little while ago when I mentioned this, this road in the direction I'm going to my house on that unfortunate samarar from the road, I have to take it so proudly and say that the community I live in has more cars than Kambodža that has 16 million inhabitants. Check the 2002 geographical atlas, and you'll see it's true. Now you can imagine how many of these municipalities stand out for all these roads and oil, and I don't know what the revenue is. I'm not an economist, but believe me, I can say what I want and what I want and what I need to say and I think you'll understand. The separations are extremely large, but nothing's coming back. And those who chose me in these four municipalities and Busovać and Kiseljak and Kreševo and Fojnica, with regrets, we were always glad to see that the Ilijaš and Vogosća highway is being made and that is good, but it is a shame to build it from the budget, mainly in the way it comes to these jobs. We thought, we must be convinced that that's where our '51 money went. It's not touched in that road, and they make one, and they knock down this one, and they make it even better in the same one that goes the railroad. What does that have to do with the highway now? It's very good, and it has a lot to do with it. It's supposed to be $43 million, spent 70. Is that true I don't know that. I guess someone will answer. And how it got to that job. That's why I'm more comfortable with whoever wants to take the offer, take the concession, charge it in the future. However, when we want and want from the HDZ Club and the democracies today and here to talk about one hill down, we created a law on concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am ashamed that this is the law of the country where I live. Why? Here's just one article to read. In Article 4 and this was published 2-3 months ago or 5 of this law in Article 4 and paragraph 3. – the issues raised in connection with the award of concessions between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, I thought that Republika Srpska in the Bosnia and Herzegovina was dealing with the joint concession committee referred to in Article 6(2). Is that all right with you? I don't think so, and maybe it is. Anyway, I thought that, uh, I'd agree to that throwout of yours that it's been dropped. A lot's been dropped, so I'm saying the hill's down. But I guess it was a rush to do, but under this law, we need a concession, and by this law, we need that concession. Under that law, we need a competition, and under that law, we need to do this effective study to do so, etc. And when we make a proposal in which we would only change that to be transparently famous, the word spoken at 92 last time in the daily speech of people mainly from the international community is open, honest, etc. Which would mean under that transparent, then we get a daily newspaper entitled "GDP" on top of it in agreement with Račan from our Mr. Chairman's mouth. By what document? Based on what? What is that touching thing you can say? I'm saying that this law needs to be revised, not one of those unfortunate points that we started, but when I saw this, I was afraid. This needs to be put out of force as soon as possible. I ask questions – when Bosmal makes up a feasibility study and submits that documentation to see who owns this documentation? I hear here today, I repeat again I'm not an economist that they and those land-purchasing funds, who owns this country if Bosmal buys it? So is it more questionable to call even a tender for the performance of works and to get a concession if it's the land of Bosmal? That's what I think. I don't know. This is how it all comes out. I ask the same thing – was it difficult to make an invitation to tender for this feasibility study? Well, either internally or internationally, although I don't think it was hard to do, and if it were strong, a lot of this would solve a lot of this whole thing and not come into this position right now. But I'm glad, believe me, I'm glad someone has someone to do it and who's gonna help us get to the highway as soon as possible. The World Bank's interest, among other things, is that you can see that a tender has been opened that even when the World Bank reports and many of them know how many unknowns we would have reported for such a grand project.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9091	Mr. Jović brings the final discussion to an end, I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9092	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9093	So I'm asking you to bring an end to the discussion. Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9094	My koleginica and colleagues, I am starting to assume that we have a political consensus and that we have all the good intentions and noble initiatives to build Corridor Vc. Simply if we're on that commission and these principles, then we really shouldn't exchange hard words or simply turn this into a political show, this is a simple project of the century, a mega project that starts Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which means that it deems an unproductive form of debate, a system of communication and information not adequate, not timely and simply incomplete, and that 93 meaning it is important to establish a principle consistent with the conclusion that we have simply adopted since last session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moreover, if this project moves what a political message is, as well as how Parliament is involved in the realisation of such a job, which is the form of Parliament's supervision, etc. etc. It's all there as a question mark. We can't objectively be engineers here, so just design this Corridor Vc. Well, that's out of the minds of people. Let us simply call upon the situation of the reality of parliamentary surveillance over such a single project. Not that we're designing this Corridor Vc and we have every detail just how many banks on that project are going to be feet away, etc. etc. So we should have reason, simply be quite correct about this project. So he can't design this. We're in charge of designing this Corridor Vc. That's one thing. So I propose to the College that, as we have promised the Council of Ministers, each regular session of the Council of Ministers' House of Representatives not in oral form, not in the form of the presentation of the Ministers' or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers' Council of Representatives' information to the House of Representatives on State and Business and Construction of Corridor Vc. That's below 1. That's what we're looking for. So it's absolutely necessary in this way to communicate. All other improvisations, everything else
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9095	Every regular session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9096	Every regular sitting yes. Every regular session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9097	Allah's salamit. Okay. Keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9098	We can negotiate, we can negotiate, but every regular session simply information. That's not hard. We have a resourceful ministry, brother dear, on one sheet of paper, two sheets of paper can do that. Don't think it's a burden from the Council of Ministers. We can continue this political show.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9099	Please. Please. Be careful, please. We're entering the final phase, please. I started a little, please, Mr. Kunić, don't. Mr. Avdić, give your suggestions and we'll finish up. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9100	That's the first conclusion. 94 Second conclusion. There is an objective idea, and this is, in the light of the fact that this is a long-term project, since much is being broken through this project, there is no priority but to form a committee to monitor this project by both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone liked it or didn't like it. This form of knowledge and communication and supervision of the project is ineffective, i.e. it is not correct, it is not suitable for a given situation. It means a commission that would permanently monitor the supervisory and transparency of the Council of Ministers' work. That's below 2. I'll have a co-operation board as well. I'm sorry. Yeah, right. You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9101	May I have your attention, please? Please don't comment on the pay phone, don't comment while the speaker speaks. Make suggestions to bring the session to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9102	And below 3. We must insist no matter what reason the Council of Ministers may have, a feasibility study must be owned by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The state of feasibility must be developed under mentoring control, co-ordination of the co-ordination board, i.e. the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The feasibility study I repeat once again must be owned by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means there is no alternative. It can't be private property of any company. And in this context, this feasibility study provides answers to many questions today that are being asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9103	Any other suggestions?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9104	That's three and finally to say that we don't pollute with the World Bank, with the IMF, etc. We need to harmonize our relations with these world banking and economic institutions. You know well that the monetary and simple strategy of the macro-economy development of Bosnia and Herzegovina is run by the IMF and the World Bank, which means it would be good to harmonize relations and not to tighten relations and not to oppose public debate if it is necessary for them to do so, but in this context, it means simply to have and maintain the dignity and agree to restore the trust of domestic science and mind, to learn, to restore trust simply to domestic people that the work can be done with the necessary assistance of international experts that are necessary. I don't think we need international loans to fund foreign experts.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9105	Thank you, sir. You're bringing the discussion to an end. Thank you. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9106	It's just at the expense of your own mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9107	Still the chairman of the Council of Ministers has his word and we are closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9108	They say it's at the coffee shop as close as dawn gets worse and worse. Each, every parliamentary assembly to seek information, to request written information from the Council of Ministers. Gentlemen you can get that conclusion, bring it to you, but I absolutely respect you I must say that you will not get every session, regular session that you will not get that information, because we have nothing to write to you. Let's just make it up for you. We could just make it up to you or send you blank sheets. So that is, I ask you to keep on that last conclusion that we are obliged to inform you etc. Parliamentary oversight of the implementation of this project, I don't know what would contribute to this project. We've got the Department of Traffic. We'll have a concession committee. Parliamentary oversight will be that what the concession committee decides will have to do, not with the Council of Ministers' decision, but with the decision of this representative home, any concessional relationship with any bidder from Bosmal, so I don't know who can eventually appear as a concessionary will only be valid when it is verified by this representative home. And where you'll be more parliamentary surveillance. What now needs another commission to sit with the Ministry of Transport and Communications every day, or with a coordination team that I'm headed to and ask for some information and ask for, as I said last time, a fox in the woods. I'm assuming there's some mistrust, but let me have the authority and not the direction. So no one in this country has given Bosmal a concession. No Niko in this country can think in the direction of Mr Jović to own land in Bosnia and Herzegovina except the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What will be given to use is another thing, but whoever builds the road and whoever gets a concession from the state will be the owner of that land, and during the duration of the concession, the concessionary will be the beneficiary. And you're opening up so many questions that there are really clear transparent answers going exactly in the direction that we can say that the Council of Ministers is protecting the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but among other things, because it's picking on things where it absolutely doesn't make any sense. I would like to say the Council of Ministers has found that the concession law is exactly what Jović also characterised it. So the hill of the valley made, creamy and our ministry of communication and traffic will launch an amendment and addition of the Law not to one member but to the full law that, just to make it clear that those things that are unsettled by this legislation are cleared and that, normally, such a legal proposal will be obtained in the procedure. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2003-08-07-0.u9109	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I therefore thank, on behalf of all of us, the Council of Ministers who gave the information today and gave answers to the questions that have been asked. I agree with the fact that today's debate went beyond the agenda and I would prefer the debate to be the way it was usual for these points of the agenda – Information on issues, answers and let's move on. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. He'll get out of it, everyone will draw their own conclusions. This home last time brought down one conclusion which is a longer-term character, which is that the Council of Ministers occasionally informs the House about the activities surrounding the construction of Corridor Vc. So that's our conclusion that we voted on. I also thank again the chairman of the Council of Ministers and those who have asked questions, not those who have spread the discussion to one or the other side, and I declare this item of the agenda completed and declare that the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has ended. Thank you. The session was completed at 19.00 hours.
