ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1741	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, respected representatives of public information funds, I welcome all of you nicely and open the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13 delegates are present. Of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serb people. That means there are 13 people present in total. Justification, due to the official route, was announced by Mr. Spajić and Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija, who is still on his way home for sick leave. For this session, I suggest the next agenda. 1. Answers to Legislative Issues and Delegative Issues 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th and 15th sessions of the House of Peoples, 3rd. The request to consider the proposal for a law on temporary application from enforcement, based on executive decisions, on the burden of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, under the Article of the 100th Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, is proposed by the Council of Ministers, 4. A statement by the People's House on a request for consideration of the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the application and protection of the name of BiH, it is proposed to go according to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 5. Report to the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Administrative Procedure, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, 6. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment, as referred to in Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 7. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Official Messenger of BiH, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations — Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 8 / 8 Declaration by the People's House on the Joint Commission's report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system. 2 Notes. You've been invited to this session, we've been sent a agenda, but this is the agenda now, and we want to stress that this agenda, namely, I want to point out that I'm putting this agenda under discussion. Thank you very much. Does anyone report for changes and supplement the agenda? So we're staying. Who's on the agenda like this? So this agenda was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. The adoption of the 14th and 15th sessions. Forgive me. Ad.1. There was no answer to the delegates' questions and the delegates' questions of answer to the delegates' questions for this session. I'm asking my colleagues if they need to ask delegate questions to answer. Here you go. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1742	Dear Mr. President and Vice-President, the distinguished representatives of the BiH institutions, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to take this opportunity to ask the BiH Council of Ministers questions. First, which so far established BiH institutions have their headquarters in Sarajevo and which and where are they based outside Sarajevo? Secondly, what is the national structure of the leaders and employees of each of the BiH institutions? Third. Has the Council of Ministers established a schedule of BiH institutions' seats, which will be established in the next three years and when will the plan be submitted to representatives and MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I appreciate that there is no need in particular to explain the reasons for asking this question, but I personally think it is necessary to decentralise in the sense that the headquarters of certain Sarajevo institutions as the capital are being moved elsewhere. We have had several examples lately, and in this sense we have been tempted to conclude that someone is on someone's side, and I have personally been very often in a dilemma, in which way to plead, until I see that this is planned and planned activity, which will not depend on a specific situation and in an appropriate way of affecting the envoys themselves, during the statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1743	Thank you, Mr. Limov. The word came from Mr. Nada Radović. Is there anyone else I can contact to write it down?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1744	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 3 Our activities have recently been, mainly, turned towards creating a unique economic space throughout BiH, without preventing the flow of goods and capital and services throughout the territory. My question concerns the BiH Council of Ministers, which is related to one specific case, but that doesn't have to mean just for that case, I suppose we have more cases like that. And that's what it says. When it will be returned to the property of the business premises, which served as exhibition-sale salons of the Penalty-Agreement Institute – the temporary unit Drina from Foca – the Serb and are located in 161 m2 in the street of Dzamal Bedic at Cengić Villa in Sarajevo, so Canton Sarajevo. A business space of 150 m2 on the street of Hasana Brkić in Zenica and a business space of 140 m2 on Rudarska Street in Tuzla. I think he deserves this attention. So, not this case, I'm guessing there are other cases like this, and if we're going to make prosperity, one of the conditions of prosperity is the free flow of goods and capital across BiH's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1745	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno picked up the phone. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1746	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the working presidency, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, my representative's question has raised a letter and it is about the information Đeneral Todako's industry, the shares society from Ljubusko. Information claiming that the effects of equating a special excise tax on cigarettes from domestic cigarettes are disastrous for BiH's budget, to the soul it is only about data for the Federation of BiH, that the federal budget will lose between $80m and $100m. These figures, or these figures themselves, are catastrophic if they're true. My question is that way. Whether or not the state can give up so much money, budget money, but also another question whether we simply give up our own productions and our own industry. This data was signed by management and owners of that industry. According to this, I'm not sure which relationship and in which extent these data are accurate. That's why I'm asking for an answer. If they are correct, then what to do is simply not to happen to both the domestic industry and the domestic budget, what will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1747	Thank you, Mr. Zno. Is there anyone else who's answering the legislator's questions? There isn't. So this part of the agenda we've exhausted and we're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th and 15th session of the House of Peoples whether there are objections first to, let's discuss this from the 14th session. Any objections to the minutes of the 14th session? Here you go. I'll save you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1748	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I have no objections as to the text of the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Peoples, but I have an essential one. It says here that I got an answer to a delegate's question, and I don't have that answer, so if I can get it in a copy or someone can tell me where he sent it to me, what he did to it, that I can read it so I know what it's about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1749	All right, let's hear it from Secretary Dom, who's competent for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1750	Mr. Spasojević, that's the question that came up when you weren't at the House. It's only been established that you've got the answer. You weren't very obvious about him. You weren't. Only in the second session to re-read yourself because of this question, that is the answer, the answer has been delivered to everyone, so for sure to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1751	Thank you very much. So, however, it is necessary to make sure that Mr. Spasojević gets that answer in that physical sense, so that he can be determined according to it. Thank you very much. So, any more questions about the 14th session record? There isn't. Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 14th session? hasane, are you up for something? The 14th session minutes were unanimously adopted. Is there anyone here for a word on that record? Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1752	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, just to be clear, this question, which I've asked here, is missing a follow-up sentence. And the remainder of the sentence is very important, and that's why I asked the question. So here is not the point at the end of the question of what is in the record, but in the light of the messages that were heard from that rally. That's very important, that's why I asked the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1753	Thank you very much, Osmane. Jadranko, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1754	Mr. Brk, you didn't give us the question in writing, you just put it out, but you also put it in writing, so we could get out of the context of what you were saying to get this question out. We managed to do this. It's not a problem. We'll fill in the next report. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1755	There's more. And right now, let's say that we accept this amendment, which Mr. brkati is talking about, to correct this and to correct this record for what Mr. Brka said. Do we accept that? So 13 - we unanimously accepted, the Brkin proposal, the Brka intervention. Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 15th session? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Ad.3. A request to consider the proposal for a law on temporary postponement of the application, based on executive decisions on the weight of the budget of BiH's investment and international obligations, under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers here felt the need for the Proposer to tell us a few sentences, so we asked that he be one of the proposings, and there would probably be questions, so that he would be the Proposer here. Thank you very much. Mr. Kumalić on behalf of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1756	I thank the chairman for giving me his word and welcoming everyone present. Namely, what it's about. We have been informed from earlier information that it is necessary to maintain the unrelenting stability of the state in order to maintain certain macroeconomic stability. In this context, we considered the information on external debt and found that the external debt was under control, that is, it is reflected in all aspects and that the payment of external debt is regularly carried out. But around the internal debt, we received contradictory information, first of all, what is the internal debt, and then by the height and extent of the internal debt. In fact, the internal debt was not, nor was the internal debt law passed and no criteria were established on how to determine the internal debt. In the last year, internal debt has been dealt with by the IMF and domestic experts have come up with certain data, which, from which the law has been passed, has been provisional law, in order to prevent the payment of various court decisions from being prevented, but only suspended temporarily. Namely, various search engines in terms of internal debt are trying to collect their claims, and this also applies to old foreign exchange savings, war material and immaterial damages, claims incurred during the war and direct war dangers and residual unsettled obligations of Budget users. In order to avoid anarchy and avoid budgets of both state and entity, cantonal and municipal, it is agreed that these provisional laws should not be passed at all levels, meaning laws that will only delay court and executive decisions until the final law, which will establish claims on the internal debt. So this is a law proposed after a brief procedure to be adopted, to temporarily delay the execution of judicial and executive orders, so as not to endanger the macroeconomic economic stability of the state. Similar laws were passed by entities, counties and municipalities. 6 So, this law is temporary and by 31.03. already the expert commissions that work, have five commissions, should offer a legal solution, an internal debt solution. It is generally known that internal debt also needs to be mastered at the same work, or should be put under control. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, along with domestic aspects. I wouldn't be anymore, unless there were questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1757	Thank you very much, Mr. Kumalić. Here, now we've got one more whole and one more whole position on this law and now that Mr. Kumalić has explained this to us, I ask Parliament, first Halida, if I may, to discuss whether we will adopt this law according to this procedure 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's to be adopted in that Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Halida. It's a procedure debate. I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1758	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, however, let us stop for one moment, because we need to be clear whether we will adopt the law under Article 100, which means there is no amendment or influence on the law, but in the form of how it was proposed and before that statement, I feel the need to draw attention, however, and see if there is any opportunity to intervene here. I fully agree with the need to preserve the budget of the BiH institution. It is known that BiH is in a difficult economic situation, it is also known that there is a priority of external obligations, external debt, which BiH and Budget BiH must meet, it is known, of course, that there are huge debts based on old foreign currency savings, war damage, material and immaterial and it is known that there are already judicial and executive decisions on these obligations and the reconciliation of these obligations. I welcome, of course, this law and this proposal, as an apparent attempt by the Council of Ministers to finally make that, indeed, area, which abounds with a number of problems begin to edit even this way. I welcome, of course, the fact that there are initiatives to ensure that old foreign savings are settled, that the regulations are settled, and that, naturally, all attempts to find a fair solution for all of these people. We have here in the bill of law, that the execution of executive court decisions, in respect of this debt, should be suspended for three months until 31 March, in order to regulate the issue by a certain law, which will be called what will be called, which has the ambition to regulate the way decisions referred to above and the court decisions are settled. I don't think this deadline is good. So we have the end of the year today. It's three months by March 31st. I do not know how much the law that should be regulated on 31 March did not even come into parliamentary procedure, while I do not know whether, at all, the task force has prepared this law, with a certain nature, has not come into parliamentary procedure and is looking at the business and procedure legislative in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it is not realistic to expect this law to be adopted by 31 March. So we're going to have a situation to postpone the executive court ruling until March 31st, and on March 31st, we're going to find ourselves in a situation where nothing has been solved 7 and that the courts are coming back into the situation of what is now to be done and will probably have to reach for that further extension. For these reasons, I ask the Proposer, before we plead, to adopt this law by article 100, which means without any amendments, whether there is a possibility, whether the Proposer appreciates that there is a need, whether the Proposer agrees with what I have stated as arguments, to consider, that, however, it is intervened in this proposal, and that this time-limit is appropriate to determine the recimon for six months, which would allow all these issues to be resolved in a timely manner, that we do not come into a situation that we need to extend again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1759	Here, after Mr. Genjac's discussion, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1760	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I, too, am reading this law, which has only four members, quite agree with my predecessor and I believe that this internal debt, which wastes on old foreign savings, war material and non-material damage claims, incurred during the war and direct war dangers, the lagable liabilities of Budget users and other things, which are not, perhaps taxingly listed here, we should do one review of the programme or do one review of how much of it is in the internal debt and what we can do in this year, or in the next, next year, that we have some programme for the next ten years, we probably have what is listed here, if we have ten budgets in this state that we can't finish, we can't even say this, if we're BiH state, if we inherit some things from before, we can't say that we're not obliged to pay for the old-demand we're not to pay for the rulings. Also, with a colleague who had previously said that this deadline of 31.03. I do not believe that he is, indeed, short and that we should have this deadline for at least six months, and that before that we have some sort of schedule of what we are in priority, what we should pay first, or, which are judicial decisions, which are executives, that we have some sort of review, on which we will be able to discuss this and I am usually against the adoption of the law, which goes according to Article 100, but this time I will be, because I think that at this point Budget can't pay something like this ad-hoc something until a single schedule is finally made that it will, indeed, and how long it will take, and how will we manage to reconcile these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1761	Thank you very much. Mr. Jukić is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1762	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the theme treated by this law is extremely important and important for BiH. I think it is better to adopt this law and adopt and that we have at least such a law, which is not complete, study, according to its content is only a delay, meaning these obligations, which, however, have not been established and I would not be skeptical and immediately condemning the Council of Ministers that it will not succeed in doing an important job to determine the internal debt, its structure, etc. I want to be optimistic and encourage the Council of Ministers to really do what's being said here. 8 The job... of internal debt is extremely important and important, and later on, if there is a chance of that I would like to say something. However, if we consider that something needs to be settled around these deadlines, then we can only talk about the procedure again, that is. that this does not go in accordance with Article 100, but under Article 99, which implies a shortened procedure, an emergency procedure. So, shortened, not urgent and therefore, but I am more inclined to talk about this, however, and that really, if Mr. Kumalić, on behalf of the promoter, appears here and if he stands, or the Council of Ministers, as a Proposer, he is his representative behind this written deadline, he does not, he does not seem unfulfilled to me. I think we should support that. However, the very essence of this law is, in my opinion, very questionable, very questionable, that is, what this law contains in its contents and in its message, it is in line with these things, which are written in our constitution, in the preamble of the Constitution, about respecting human rights and freedoms, about respecting the right to property. Furthermore, the question whether this law creates legal certainty or confirms legal non-security, etc. but we can discuss this in this second part when the debate on the law is established. It's about procedure now. So, I think, if we appreciate that the Council of Ministers can guarantee that this deadline here can be respected, then I'm here to support and say that we can encourage them to do so within that time limit.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1763	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Hasan Čengić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1764	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, media representatives, professional services, I will refrain from discussing the content of this law and if I would like to discuss it, I would remain on the issue of the procedure. Respecting the fact that, indeed, it is necessary, as soon as possible, to go in the direction of a solution today, because there is no time to postpone, I think it is important that we get a law like this and a decision like this. On the other hand, objectively, without having any respect for the Council of Ministers, I don't think that this three-month deadline from today is enough for the Council of Ministers to solve this problem, not only because the Council of Ministers is not willing or has no solution, but we all objectively know that the Council of Ministers is just one of the factors in this story, in this business. So they will have to carry out extensive consultations, talks and negotiations with international finesse. the institutions, but also the representatives of the entities, both entities, because the claims are internal. So it's not that I don't trust the Council of Ministers, it's simply that I'm aware of the size of the jobs they're waiting for, and that's why I think it would be useful for the Council of Ministers, if there are more deadlines. I think it would be good if we could get those six months. And, therefore, I really support the idea, if it's possible for the Council of Ministers to decide on it immediately and change its proposal, so if we adopt it at six months, we're going to go for a reconciliation. If, for some reason, the Council of Ministers is unable to do so, I suggest we go to the procedure, how it is proposed, and make a statement about this law to lead the debate, because it is very important that we give it support. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1765	Thank you very much. There is a need for Mr. Kumalić to say a few sentences, now after these statements.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1766	I'm afraid you misunderstood me when I said five expert teams were working on it, and the IMF had been working on it for over a year. As regards these individual types of claims, they have already been found, as a case of foreign savings, disputed war damages, because entities had different criteria when determining war damages and much has been done on this plan. But it didn't work out that the U.S. Attorney's Office didn't have any, so in various court disputes, no one represented the state and this one, this law, to be honest, two or three months ago, to protect this macro-stabilision, and I'm surprised that it came this slowly, because we let it go in the process long ago, and I would ask you that it goes on this article 100th and around the deadline, that with this deadline, since the predstavnički of Representatives adopted it so. If you insist on extending the deadline, it's debatable, and the procedure to be this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1767	I'm sorry, I forgot to say that the House of Representatives adopted this at its session in 18.12. and I, here, after these discussions, if we've exhausted the discussion, I still propose that we adopt this law according to this urgent procedure. Who's in? So unanimous. Now we're going into a debate about the law, about the members of the law, and, here, I'm putting the law under discussion. Is there anyone to discuss? There's no one here. I'm putting the law to the vote to adopt. Thank you very much. The law was passed unanimously. I beg you, Mr. Jukić was prepared to discuss it seriously, but when it went so wonderfully, then he gave up and said there's no need, because he says it should be good. Ad.4. A statement by the People's House on a request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the application and protection of the name of BiH The Law should go according to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The House of Representatives adopted it. Do we agree that there is a debate under Rule 99 of our Rules of Procedure? Procedure. 10 Who's in? So unanimous. Ad.5. Report by the House of People, a statement by the People's House on a request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who is it that we adopt this law in accordance with our 99th Rules of Procedure? Thank you. So unanimous. Ad.6. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Production and Weapons of Military Equipment, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers of I, adopted this by that home. Who, then, is to adopt this law by a brief procedure. Let's consider a brief procedure. All of them, then, unanimously. Ad.7. A statement by the People's House on a request to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Official Messenger of BiH, to consider it by Article 99, which is also adopted by this House Who is to adopt our home to consider this in accordance with Article 99? Thank you very much. So unanimous. And since what was foreseen as the 8th item of the agenda, a statement by the People's House on the Declaration of the Joint Commission of both homes on the signing of an agreement on the same text of the Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system. We're not having this conversation. We suggest we interrupt this session and have a follow-up on Monday. Filipović, I'm sorry, what the commission said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1768	Dear ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the chairmanship of our colleagues, unfortunately we cannot discuss today's report, because the Law-Making Commission, the Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system, has not yet finished its work, I think, at the very least. We had one session Thursday, which took a long time, we had a session today, thinking we'd finish this job quality. But we hope and will make additional efforts, to reach a consensus in the Joint Commission on this text of the law, and it is a unanimous proposal by the Joint Commission to propose to this House, as this was today on the agenda, and since it was scheduled for a session of the House of Representatives on Monday 29th to propose to this House, to postpone the discussion of the text consent report, because we did not bring it to an end and to be on Monday 29.12. We had before us a task of 18 amendments, adopted by the House of Representatives, 8 amendments adopted by this House. We've agreed to 27 amendments. It's just about one more amendment. Let it mature with those who think differently. Let it mature across the board to get a mature proposal so this law doesn't fall. That's why we didn't rush today by making a final decision on the consistency of this text, because we haven't yet, we haven't had such an atmosphere. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1769	I would like to thank Mr Filipović and, please, I would like to extend the session if you agree to do so on Monday at 12 p.m. on the 29th as this is Filipović. I think it's a decent time. Thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 12 o'clock and 45 minutes. 12 Dear delegates, we are continuing the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The meetings shall be attended by representatives of public information funds. I welcome you all and we will begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 14 delegates attend this sequel. Of which 4 of the Bosniak people, 5 of the Croatian people, 5 of the order of the Serbian people. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija for health reasons is absent from this session today. For the 16th session, we have one item on the agenda and we have one. Declaration by the People's House on the Joint Commission's report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the draft law on an indirect taxation system. The Commission has been sitting on your benches, not to read, please, you are also given a report on benches, a report from the Commission, and if, I hope that we have all read this report and I am opening a debate on this report. I think the Commission has discussed everything and I don't see any reason for some discussions and some new views. On behalf of the Commission, I apologize to the rapporteur. Here you go, Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1771	I welcome you, dear president, dear colleagues, dear guests, I have a rather complex task because there have been many amendments from both homes. We worked three days when it all came together, we worked 12 hours. I think this is the one committee that has worked the longest on the harmonisation of some law in this House. But thank God we finally agreed after all this time. I will read very briefly here that the Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina held on 18.12.2003, 22.12.2003 and 29.12.2003 reached an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the composition of indirect 13 taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, accepting a total of 13 amendments that became an integral part of the text of that law. The joint commission of both homes delivers the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's agreed amendments in the form of reports recommending that homes accept them and thus adopt the same text of the proposal for a law on indirect taxation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The consensually agreed amendments are the following, so I don't read them now, there are 13 of them here. You all got them on the table, as soon as we finally reached one conclusion, because the biggest dispute, you already know about the centre for, how many centres will be in Bosnia and Herzegovina for that taxation. The Council of Ministers' proposal was four, you know that. At the House of Representatives there was an amendment to that being the Brcko that was adopted at the House of Representatives. The Commission has agreed to remain four of the ones proposed by the Council of Ministers, with the conclusion that you have also received it, but I will read it for the sake of guests - the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to consider, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the Law on indirect taxation, economic indicators on the justification of the number of regional centres for indirect taxation and to report to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We felt that this conclusion should be made so that we could simply approach the adoption of the law today in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-22-0.u1772	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Here's the report from the Commission. I will now put the Commission's full report to the vote, together with the conclusion. I think it's a good thing and I'm asking this house to make a statement about whether it's for the Commission's report to be accepted, along with the conclusion? Who's in? Thank you very much. So we unanimously adopted the harmonised text of the Law on indirect taxation. Thank you very much. This should be the end of this assembly, and I, on behalf of the peoples, wish to congratulate the citizens of Serbian nationality and our colleagues from the Serbian people first Christmas, Christmas holidays, and then to all of us together and to all the peoples, congratulate New Year's Eve and I want them to spend New Year's Eve and Christmas holidays in peace and good moods and good wishes, and to have lots of happiness and pleasures in the coming year. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 12:30.
