ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8172	Dear guests, I am opening the 13th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you all to the 13th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies attending the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses. I find that according to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Professional Service, which is our House of Representatives, the session is attended by a total of 41 MPs, because we have not yet received one MP from the SDS as a certified mandate from the Electoral Commission of BiH and if we have sent a request to the Electoral Commission that of the 41 MPs present, 35 MPs attend the meeting. There are currently no MPs at the meeting: Mrs Fatima Leho, who is today on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, absent at the Istanbul Conference, then Mr Abdulah Nakaš, who announced a delay at today's session due to the urgent obligations at work, Mr Nijaz Duraković, for whom we have no information about his absence, Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, for whom we also have no information about his absence. Ms. Milićević Ljiljana, who, along with Mrs. Leho, attends the Conference in Istanbul, then Mr. Živković Milorad for whom we have no information on the reasons for not attending this session or at least the beginning of this session. Nor, therefore, do I realize that we have 35 MPs in the O.R. at this time. That 35 MPs are present, and that the conditions have been met that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives can fully discuss all issues and decide. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a draft agenda in the invitation for today's session. We subsequently referred you to certain materials, with an indication in the accompanying acts that you received with these materials, that there is a possibility that these materials will be placed on the agenda of today's sessions. As our continuing practice, as well as our obligation from the Rules of Procedures of our House, we also had a session of the Extended College yesterday afternoon to prepare this session as high as possible. At that session, we agreed on the necessary additions to the proposed agenda, and according to this, you received a definitive agenda on the bench this morning. The agenda, therefore, is as you received from your calls and calls, i.e. from the moment you were invited to the session, the agenda is innovated with the following points: 2 The request of the MEP Mladen Potočnik to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Veterinary Act under the urgent procedure of Article 105 of our Rules of Procedure. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the sealing of BiH institutions is Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I call on the new agenda to elect three members in the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on a single text of the Labour and Employment Agency and the Law on Plant Health. Then there is a new point, consultations on the election of a BiH judge to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Request by the Council of Ministers for Correction of Technical Error in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nationality. Then, four international agreements, four agreements, are: - the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of India, - the Trade Agreement between BiH and Ukraine, - the Agreement between BiH and Ukraine on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments, - the Protocol establishing and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Turkey So these are these additional points in relation to the one originally delivered to the agenda, which remains, and you are now getting the agenda with a total of 13 points, and the 13th point has 5 sub-points. Here, so, that's a draft agenda. My proposal, a proposal from the College and a proposal from the Extended College. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who wants to talk about the agenda? Here you go. Mr. Novaković, then Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8173	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I just want to warn you of one thing, which I don't think would be good to become a practice. In fact, most MPs this morning have now been informed that changes and additions to a law will be made on the agenda and that it will go according to an urgent procedure. I think it's very bad, it's a very bad practice, not just because of us sitting here, but because of the law itself and the relationship to that law. I think that's a particular problem, if, if this is a law proposed by one of the MPs, where the rest of us didn't have a chance, we couldn't, after all, come up with enough to figure out what it means and what the consequences of the application of such a law are. I know it's a mandatory part of Mr. Potočnik's agenda now, but I'd like to ask Mr. Potočnik to withdraw his proposal, I think that's how he'd avoid what I'm talking about. Given that, I don't think there's any other way this can be found on the agenda except this one. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8174	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the floor. After that, Mr. Potočnik, Ivo-Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8175	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers, on the occasion of the same request, or the discussion of the predecessors, I may ask the first College whether a consultation with the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resoring Ministry for Amendments and Supplements of that law, has been carried out in accordance with the previously adopted conclusion. I'm saying this in principle. It has slučano now that the veterinary law is ahead of us, but we have reached a conclusion that, when any of the MPs, or an authorised promoter outside the Council of Ministers, is proposing certain amendments and additions to the law to intervene between the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resort Ministry and determines the possibility of any changes. There is even one such change here today even by emergency procedure with procedure 105. I would suggest, Mr. Chairman, that, if this amendment is not done, you take this point off the agenda today or during the session to carry out consultations with the Council of Ministers, the more I remind myself of these laws, or such amendments to the law, may refer to the standard standards we were obliged to when adopting the Veterinary Act, specifically when it comes to respecting European norms and standards, and, if we get the green light, I am to consider the requirement 105. If that's not the case, please remove the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8176	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. There's 36 of us in the O.R. right now. Mr. Potočnik, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8177	Dear colleagues, I understand fully Mr. Novaković and Mrs. Hadžiahmetović and they are in principle right. However, on two occasions we tried to solve this problem with the Council of Ministers and, precisely, because there was no movement we decided on this step, because at least 10,000 employees of this country are directly concerned, indirectly about 50,000 people living from this production and who do not have the opportunity because certain legislation is not regulated to export normally. And, secondly, the change of this law creates conditions for opening 100,000 more jobs, so I am giving responsibility directly to this House of Representatives to decide that it will solve this problem as soon as possible, because this is not only a matter of procedure but also of life.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8178	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Miro Ivo Jović has a word. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8179	Madam Presidents, honourable ministers, dear fellow MPs, speaking on behalf of the Coalition Club and we have an objection to point 7. The Council of Ministers' request to discuss the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH under a hasty procedure. Schools and educations in them represent a central link in life to the achievement and development of one nation and its total cultural and spiritual being. That is why school and education is a first-class political, educational political and professional issue of every country when its education policy is determined. Standards are established and school laws are passed in primary schools to the university. The draft law comes in parliamentary procedure, as also indicated by those who put it in a procedure of haste, as the introductory text also states, without public and professional debate. We consider and advocate the adoption of this law in a regular parliamentary procedure and the adoption of a consistent, enforceable and sustainable framework of the law on the principles of education and education throughout BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8180	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Who else wants to talk? The Minister of the Council of Ministers is reporting. According to the Rules of Procedure, they have the advantage, after which Mr. Raguž and Mr. Đedović Ibrahim. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8181	The Honorable Presidency, respected MPs, may not be a common practice for people from the executive authority to suggest the agenda, but I have been forced into this situation to intervene and say a few explanations about the previous discussion. I would like to say that this procedure with regard to the adoption of a law on basic and secondary education, which is called the Framework Law, therefore, of a principled nature, has passed all the necessary procedure and has been in the debate, practically, for two years now. Once there's an agenda point, we'll talk about it in more detail. Let me just say that the law was developed by an expert group involving representatives of the authorities of both entities, cantons and Brcko District. Then representatives of BiH institutions, the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees who played a co-ordinated role in the process of adoption in the first phase of this law. So, law-making. The process of drafting this law has since the very beginning included representatives of international institutions and organisations in BiH OHR, then the OSCE and the Council of Europe and what is most important why I have come out practically. In November, the majority of BiH officials in Brussels were, where the obligation to pass this law was assumed as a commitment by the BiH state in a way that has been in place since the next school year since September. I'll read only two or three sentences from promise number five signed by our officials. It says here: we will implement BiH's law on primary and secondary school education, as prescribed by the commitments we have made after the accession of the Council of Europe, and we will implement human rights and educational principles established by that accession, and we will adopt laws in entities and cantons that are in accordance with this law. 5. The BiH Parliament, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, will be given a law on BiH education in primary and secondary schools no later than 15 January 2003, and for adoption no later than 24 April 2003 and implementation until mid-2003. We will develop an effective instrument that will ensure that joint cores, based on the Plan and the programme covering European human rights standards, are implemented in the field of BiH by September 2003 at the latest. We will develop, adopt and implement a law on entities and cantons that are in line with human rights and educational principles and standards, covered by the BiH law at least two months before the start of the school year 2004. - 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8182	I thank the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr. Safet Halilović. Next reported is Mr. Martin Raguž. Let Mr Ibrahim Đedović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8183	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that under this section relating to the ratification of the agreement we also include the point of the proposal for a decision to ratify the debt consolidation agreement under the Paris Club between BiH and Japan and if you get it, I don't know exactly when you were sent on Friday. I've been called by the men of the Treasury Department and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is an important agreement that BiH has consolidated its debt and is reducing it from 12.5 million to 2 with Japan and should be completed by 25th this month and we no longer have meetings and I propose that the House of Representatives accept this suggestion. Of course, I also pointed out the need for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Competent Authorities in the Council of Ministers to respond in time and respect the necessary dynamics and procedures, but I think there are a lot of legitimate reasons to put this on the agenda today and accept it. In order not to go out again for a pay phone, related to the explanation given by the minister of civil affairs, Mr Halilović, I think that this parliament is responsible for adopting a quality law that will resolve this issue and that should be a fundamental criterion, respecting all of this, of course what he said. So now I know there are over 50 amendments to this law. So let us judge whether and in which procedure we can elaborate quality and arguments and carry out the mission that we have a quality, comprehensive, well-founded law that will contribute to its basic function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8184	I would like to thank Mr. Raguž, the vice-president. Mr Ibrahim Đedović, let Mr Filip Andrić, Mr Belkić and Mrs Hadžiahmetović prepare. Well, if I can repeat what I'm comparing now, I'll repeat it, and if I don't remember you, so help me out. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8185	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have come out to support Mr Mladen Potočnik's proposal to put this point in the agenda for the next reason. If we carefully analyse the proposal, we'll see that it's only about tightening standards when importing anything else. So it's just about creating a legal possibility not to import anything and, probably, by everyone. I appreciate that this is out of practice, out of life and I appeal, I believe that this way we will protect people from being able to eat anything, to support this and to get into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8186	I thank Mr. Đedović. We're in OR 37 right now. Another MP just walked in. The word is Mr. Filip Andrić and let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8187	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I suggest that point 8. The proposal for a general law on associations that goes in the second reading is removed from the agenda, for the reason that, the truth is not seen in today's minutes, it seems that paragraph 14 and 15 are joined in the penitentiary where this point and the law on work was described, as far as I know in the first reading, with one conclusion that the law is delivered to the Council of Ministers to give its opinion on this law within 30 days, and only then to continue the parliamentary procedure. Therefore, since we do not have the Council of Ministers' opinion today, I propose that the College withdraw this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8188	I thank Mr. Andrić. Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8189	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to present on behalf of the Party for BiH Club a few arguments in favour of the debate, i.e. to be included in the agenda of the Council of Ministers' request and if, by logic, we should certainly have it on the agenda today. It is said here that, before the BiH Parliament, therefore, in front of the House of Representatives, it is a great responsibility, when it comes to system law, or strategic law, so some call it, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. So, since that's the case, which is the case, it's logical that we go immediately to meet that responsibility and not wait. We're absolutely going to do it today, a team before it's true that there are dozens of amendments, so let's open the process. The arguments presented by the resolution minister and which we all know more in different ways through delegations and through meetings with European officials, they say that we should practically think and discuss the possibility under Article 105, but by respecting the consensus reached by the Council of Ministers of the Party for BiH, they are clearly seeking to consider this today, the debate will show what kind of procedure we will define. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8190	Thank you. I would, before we go any further, ask you to make sure that this is a debate on the agenda, and that we will discuss essentially during the session, but, behold, I neither wish nor can at the end of the day deny the debate and at this stage of the session and this sort of content, but, behold, I just want to draw your attention that there will be an opportunity to talk about it during the session. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word, unless Mr Ivo Miro Jović had an intervention on the discussions so far. Then after Mrs. Azra. Otherwise, if it's an intervention you have an advantage. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8191	Thank you. I must mention at the beginning to speak as a member of the Committee on Culture, Science and Education at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. First, I must express my dissatisfaction with today's entry into the agenda of a statement in the Council of Ministers' proposal. The argument why I'm saying it. On 18 April, the Council of Ministers laid down a proposal for a framework law, it was referred to the Parliamentary Assembly with a request for a statement in accordance with procedure 104. 21.04. We had a session on 22.04, so we had the opportunity to declare the procedure and we had the opportunity to consider this law on the agenda today. I would like to warn you of this timing for the simple reason why we are obliged to have this law in force by April 2004 which means that the new school year should start with September under the new law. Which means we need to have this law passed by the end of this month, or some similar law. I do not see the possibility in procedure 104 unless, indeed, there is a goodwill of all MPs and colleges and an emergency appointment by the end of the month we adopt this law. I would like to warn all of you of this for the simple reason that it is a law which BiH has undertaken to bring, or apply by April 2004 by entering the Council of Europe. We have all talked here full of mouths about the Council of Europe, about the European path of BiH, reforms in BiH, and, I must mention that I completely understand the discussion of Ivo Mire Jović, but I do not justify it at all. I would especially like to mention that I am very surprised by the discussion and demand, with the full respect of the arguments of my colleague Raguž, who also sits in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and who brilliantly organised all those discussions and meetings and as the chairman of this House's Committee on Foreign Policy whenever the debate on BiH's commitments and prepared commitments is in the Council of Europe. I'm not talking about the law here. We'll have a chance to talk about the law. I'm talking about procedure here. I am warning of the timing, and I would like to mention once again that I am speaking as a member of the Commission, a resolution committee at whose meeting I was present at the last meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in April in Strasbourg, where there was a report on the state of education in BiH, with a very poor assessment of the existing situation and a call for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt a new law urgently. My colleague Hasan Muratović and I even received a letter from Strasbourg calling on this law to be adopted as soon as possible, and I call on this parliament to consider even procedure 105. I'm not sure we can catch all these trains, and think about the possible consequences. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8192	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. In the name of the College, I'll give an answer when we're summed up. So I'm going to answer these criticisms sent to the College when the debate is concluded, so I'd like to ask if any of my colleagues have any intention of talking about it to leave it to me to say it as chairman because I don't want to answer my word right now. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8193	I apologize for going out on the same subject next time. It's not my fault. It's the other one. They opened a discussion about the wheel, not the agenda, so there was one dimension left in my address, which is, of course, that I went out to say that we are for reform. But we're not for losing an identity. If there's anything of vital national interest, then it's today's law because it's systematic. That's one thing. Second. The dimension in the law must be European, national, Bosnian-Herzegovina and local, as they often say the level of the local community, i.e. the traditional and the law does not exist. Not sent to a village teacher, whom I do not want to honor, it is a valuable man who, I hope, is a large majority of us started to raise and educate rather than educate. In this law, I must say that it was made unprofessionally and with no aspect of the profession there is no word of education. In law, there is no word of "breeding" with which it is serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8194	I thank Mr. Jović. Mr. Sead Avdić, and afterwards Mr. Nikola Špirić and that is all we have of the registered debaters with my right as chairman to comment, mandatory comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8195	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I, too, want to say this is, however, a strategic document of vital importance for BiH and in this context is not accidentally on the agenda and it is not by chance that the international community, along with the domestic authorities, has insisted on this kind of dynamic adoption of this law, which means that it is not disputed that there is a political will for this law to be considered and adopted in the BiH Parliament. And I think it's a false, simple, dilemma whether by Article 104 or by regular procedure. Thus, Article 104 reduces deadlines and does not endanger, after all, the discussion or the amendment phase and the commission phase, etc. which means that there is a clear position and an extended college and, I would say, most MPs in this house that we simply, flexiblely model the adoption of this law to include the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in this context to get the right treatment in this House, the Representative House of the Parliament of BiH. So, I think it's illusory to discuss and simply adopt the agenda, and by the point when the law is on the agenda, by Article 104, that we can open up a wider discussion, etc. It would not be good in advance to give a radical assessment of the 9th non-applicability of this text of the law, etc. I think it is important that there is a political will for this law to be passed and that he is on the Map of the Way, that he is on the Map of Roads towards the European Community, that this is, in turn, the obligation of BiH and that it is not, absolutely, controversial. Secondly, I would also like to support the request of the Parliament of the Potočnik, who, simply going towards that country harmonising its legislation to, together with the European Community, with a quality system and I think that, given that it is sensitive foods, or the needs of the means of importing into BiH of animal origin, that simply, this law has its full justification, along with, normally, what I would suggest, perhaps the Council of Ministers should first give its consent or suggestion that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8196	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Have Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself and Mr. Hasan Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8197	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I thought first of all not to answer, because it was the end of the debate, since there are more colleagues, my debate on the agenda will be on the trail that we are not opening a debate on the essence of the agenda, but whether there are needs and requirements for the removal of certain agenda points and what pleases me is that none of my fellow Members asked that any point be removed from the agenda. And when the agenda comes to an end, then we'll discuss the essence of the requirements related to the procedure, so we don't use this part of the agenda to discuss the essence of the legal projects that are proposed. When we get to the point of the agenda, then, of course, we'll see if we choose a shortened procedure, an emergency procedure, or the law after the statement goes into the regular procedure. So I would pray that we don't waste time discussing the essence of the law, and my contribution is that I agree with the defined agenda and that I will support it, precisely in this form in which it is proposed to this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8198	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I, too, gave one such warning before several discussions at today's session, but I said neither can I, nor do I want to prevent MPs from speaking in this way and on the agenda, but here, I draw attention to the Rules of Procedure, as you did. The next word came from Mr. Jozo Križanović, followed by Mr. Hasan Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8199	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to agree immediately with Mr Špirić's proposal, which, on occasion, suggested how to work more rationally. So, I would like to publicly say that I support the proposed agenda, and when a concrete statement is made on the framework law on basic and secondary education, I would like to suggest one conclusion, which, regardless of how we decide on the procedure we choose to discuss this proposal, respecting both the time, circumstances, obligations, the need, the character of this law, would be bound by a certain 10 deadline, perhaps 10.06, in which this House would have to end and end the debate on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8200	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Hasan Muratović, then me, because no one answered the word anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8201	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you, or to inform you of those who do not know that the monitoring team of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will be in our country next week, who is due to report to the Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of our post-opportunity obligations. This is where 19th and 20th will be, the so-called Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You are all invited to attend the first day when BiH's Colloquium will be held on its way to Europe along with the committee, and on the second day, the Committee will hold its regular session in BiH. It would indeed be very bad if we and the Monitoring Team next week and the entire Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe were to expect between 50 and 80 parliamentarians here, to know that we have removed from the agenda and procedure of the parliamentary committee, in fact moved the parliamentary procedure for this law, which is mentioned in all possible documents in Strasbourg as priority and from us all in Strasbourg and here the international community expects us to adopt this law and to apply it with the beginning of the new school year. I believe that the procedure proposed allows quite enough for all of us to submit amendments here, express our opinions, etc. and that it is very useful for this law to enter the procedure as proposed today. I repeat, it would be a very bad signal to all these people from all over Europe who will be staying with our country from Sunday to Wednesday, it would be a very, very bad sign that we say that we removed it from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8202	Mr. Zorić Vinko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8203	I, a colleague of Muratović, was a little provoked to answer my word. First, Mr. Špirić was here to propose that some points be removed from the agenda. It is not just about the law on education, or education. I would say to all those who think that we can pass the laws so quickly that I received this invitation that Mr Muratović speaks in English. Imagine, in BiH, I get an invitation to sit on some of these colloquiums, signed by MPs in this House of the Palramentary Assembly of BiH and I don't understand where I'm calling. Is this going to be our future education, so I'm just, here in a hurry here in Article 9 of the proposed law I'm reading and underlining five, and I got a five-word film in Croatian: lessons, persuasion, or persuasions, take, again classes, so, no sign of Croatian language. If it is not considered that the school is exclusively a Croatian language or an ally and so on. We're talking about it here and we want it to be a regular procedure to prepare a good law. Can we intervene when such a law is published in the Official Journal in non-Croatian language? Who we're gonna intervene to. I am holding the second law here, which Filip Andrić proposed to remove from the agenda of the General Law on Cooperatives of Sarajevo in February 2000. Well, I guess we Hrvat are bound to get 11 materials in Croatian. It's not being delivered to us. Is that why it's our fault or who needs to deliver it? Did I write this law or did the Council of Ministers and even people here wonder that such an insignificant thing as school can't and by Article 105 just raise their hands, there's no story about it and it's bad signals if the MPs in this House want to think for themselves. If I want to be worthy of presenting those who chose me. I've been elected to my constituency. Education ministers say he's not even respected by their proposals, and here the minister tells us they were. Of course they were, they were called, they were, but they were able to come and go to those meetings, because nothing was respected, and they proposed only what the Constitution allows and allows, therefore, they proposed that this law be in accordance with the Constitution. I apologize to the chairman. I had a need to get out, here I started almost discussing it, I'll leave it for later, no matter what procedure it was, but I really need to say that such an important law as I'm holding in my hand, of course it says next to this stamp that H is probably thinking that this is H Croatian language. It says he's in Croatian but he's not. The law as the Framework Law on basic and secondary education, I think we should go into a regular procedure to bring it in quality and not to be assured by someone here that it is a law that we have to do out of obligation, etc. If only this law has broken its obligations, then the HDZ-Democracy Club will also accept such a procedure as to go into emergency rather than regularity, and if not, please respect our club's proposal and that this law goes into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8204	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Muratović, intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8205	Dear Chairman, honourable students, allow me to inform you why you received in English. You received an invitation signed on the left by the President of the Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and on the right my role in the Council of Europe. Official languages are only English and French there. That document came from Strasbourg. The administration has also informed you in our language. If she didn't translate that document and deliver it to you, it's a matter of administration and not of mine. So I can only sign papers there that are in English and French. Unfortunately, I cannot send you from Strasbourg an invitation in our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8206	I thank Mr. Muratović. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am concluding a debate on the agenda and, therefore, we are in the next position, just a few indications about these proposals, regarding the proposed agenda. First, I would also like to say that I would like to respond to Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović. That the law, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, came into parliamentary procedure on 21 April in the afternoon. We've been waiting for him to know well. The College waited for him because it was the 22nd session and the agreement was that if at least one day before the meeting the law came into the hands of the MPs to ask the MPs to consider the procedure at the session, then the 22nd Law. The deadline could not be secured, as the law came to Parliament on 21st afternoon. We asked that question at the College 22nd morning before the session and the Extended College, because MPs had no text of the law in their hands before they decided to include it in the agenda. So that's the answer, let's say some kind of express criticism or dissatisfaction directed towards the College of the House of Representatives. 12 Today's session 13th, therefore, is scheduled on 13 May, among other things, for the most part because of this law and because of the obligations this Parliament has under this law. So much for my comment on this law. I will now comment on all the proposals that have been made here and say what it is that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives predicts and what the further procedure is. The first question was the law proposed by Mr. Potočnik under Article 105. That's the law you got on time. You had time to meet that law. If someone has not received it, then it is either the problem of professional services or the problem of those who did not receive the law, but it was in time delivered to the MPs and the leadership of the House has no choice but to put it on the House's decision at the first next session and this is the mandatory point of the agenda to declare the procedure. How we vote is a matter of all of us. I, too, have my own opinion and you will see when I vote how I vote when it comes to the law. Therefore, this point cannot be removed from the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, the proposal for a law on education is also a mandatory item of the agenda and in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, following the request for the procedure, puts the law on the first session scheduled for the procedure, and we today need to make a statement when we reach that point of the agenda on the type of procedure. Now we're talking about the agenda and that's the mandatory agenda point. As we speak, we are currently in O.R. 38, and another MP has just entered. How are we going to plead is a matter of all of us and look at this question, which is what we were already talking about when we set the agenda. As for Mr Filip Andrić's proposal to remove the Cooperatives Act from the agenda. I also want to say that according to the Rules of Procedure, the law is in the second reading and that it is also a mandatory item of the agenda, which is not possible to remove from the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. Having, therefore, all this in mind, I will now put to the vote Mr Raguž's proposal to include a new item of the agenda in the proposal, as regards the credit agreement between BiH and Japan. These agreements, i.e. that agreement, came into parliamentary procedure on Friday and last night at the College, we did not decide to put it on the agenda, because those MPs simply did not get it. This morning, I received several oral interventions from the Council of Ministers that this was an emergency agreement, an agreement to be responded to with ease, and I would ask you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs to respect Mr Raguž's proposal, and here is my proposal to put it on the agenda as the last item of the agenda. I'm asking you who's to include the ratification of the credit agreement with Japan in the agenda as the final point? Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously without votes against and without abstentions, as the last item of the agenda today's session, has included ratification or approval of ratification of the credit agreement between BiH and Japan, whose full name is here for the pay phone by Mr Raguž. 13 In this way, ladies and gentlemen, I declare today’s session agenda: 1. Minutes from the 11th and 12th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH emigration law proposal, the law is in the second reading; 4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Seade Palavrić to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, under the urgent procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of MEP Mladen Potočnik to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in BiH, under the urgent procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure; 6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the sealing of BiH institutions, under the urgent procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure; 7. Council of Ministers' request to consider Proposal for a Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, by emergency procedure, Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Declaration on Procedure; 8. Proposal for a general law on cooperatives, second reading; 9. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the BiH Delicacy Act; 10. Selection of three members in the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the single text: (a) Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment, (b) Law on Plant Health, 11. Consultations on the election of a BiH judge to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg; 12. Request by the Council of Ministers for Correction of Technical Error in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship; 13. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain, (b) the Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of India, (c) the Trade Agreement between BiH and Ukraine, (d) the Agreement between BiH and Ukraine on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments, (e) the Protocol establishing and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, and (f) the Credit Agreement between BiH and Japan. What's his full name, Minister? A consolidation agreement under the Paris Club between BiH and Japan. So that's the full name of the agenda point. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, we move to the first item of the agenda. These are therefore the records of the 11th and 12th session of the House of Representatives. Ad.1. Records from the 11th and 12th session of the House of Representatives you received earlier. I'm opening a discussion on the record. Who wants to talk? Mr. Filip Andrić is asking for a word on one of these records. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8207	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, my remark is on the minutes of the 12th session. On page 1 we have under point 15. The proposal for a general law on cooperatives in first reading, I mentioned that a while ago. In the description of this point under regular number 15, something else is described entirely. The draft labour and employment laws of BiH are described, which means one technical mistake. And the Cooperatives Act is referred to under point 14 with the fact that there is no conclusion with this point, which is almost identical to that of point 15, as I have spoken before, meaning, the bill is referred to the Council of Ministers with the task of delivering an opinion on the proposed law within 30 days to the House and to the competent commission, after which parliamentary procedures will be continued. As far as I can remember, there was a conclusion with this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8208	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the records? The sekretar of the dom has a word concerning this observation by Mr. Andrić. Ms. Branka Todorović, secretary of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8209	Dear members of the House College, honourable MPs, I only wish to inform you of the following. The 12th session discussed the proposal for a general law on cooperatives in first reading and was adopted, as you can see in the penitentiary with 31 votes for and 4 against. So that's where the procedure was completed, and the next point where, indeed, there was a small technical error, it was the proposal for a law on labour and employment in BiH, the first reading. The law was sent to the Council of Ministers to give an opinion on this bill within 30 days, given that the bill's legislator is MP Sead Avdić. So this conclusion relating to the Labour and Employment Act has that conclusion, and that conclusion does not apply to the General Cooperative Law proposal. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8210	I thank the Secretary of the House. If no one answers the word anymore, therefore, Mrs. Todorović, as far as I understand you, there is, however, some technical error, although the conclusion does not apply to cooperatives. And what's the technical error, just tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8211	In order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8212	Please, so nice, we're moving on to a plea. No objections to the 11th session minutes. Who's to adopt the 11th session minutes? Please help yourself to these charts you have. Thank you very much. 15 Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I find the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously adopted the 11th session record. With regard to the minutes of the 12th session, I propose that we make a statement on the minutes, with a correction that, following the intervention of Mr Filip Andrić, the Secretary of the House, Mrs Branka Todorović, made in terms of a technical error, but not with regard to that conclusion, because that conclusion did not apply to the Cooperatives Act. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously without votes against and without votes abstentions with 38 votes adopted, and the three have already gone outside, 35 votes adopted by the 12th session minutes. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. Parliamentary questions and answers Dama and gentlemen of the Parliament, Since last session, which was held on 22 April, until today we have received an answer to the question of Ambassador Ibrahim Moranjkić, set at the 10th session of the House. I apologize to Muhamed, Muhamed Moranjkić and Mr Ive-Mire Jović for asking the State Border Service at the 11th session. I ask Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić if he is satisfied with the answer and is he asking for a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8213	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, particularly the Council of Ministers gentlemen, the answer I received from the Council of Ministers on one of the 5-6 issues so far concerns the question that I quote: "I am asking the Council of Ministers for information on which they are and where have all the factories and production plants disappeared during the war and immediately after the war and where are they now and in what state?" The answer I got, probably, is either the Council of Ministers' intent, or it's toying with MPs. I'll translate that question if they didn't understand it like that. Who stole and dislocated many factories and production plants in BiH and BiH during work and immediately after the war, and where are they now and in what state? For example. Where are the Unis and Pretice factories? Where's Rajlovac? Where are the heat exchangers factories from Mostar? Where are the Falcon factories? Where's the Bosnaploda factory, the technology complete from Doboj? Where there are several factories of the wood industry, and two of our former ambassadors in Croatia found and said good luck working well in Croatia, they probably didn't work well with us, etc. That was the question, so I had to translate it. And the answer I've received is misery and what's in response, so I'm asking the Council of Ministers not to make any of it out of the Council itself, and not to make any of it out of the country where it's headed as an executive body, so I'm asking. To answer seriously the asked question, which I have also translated, and not to make of MPs and this Parliament to play and disdain that can be read in that answer that I have received. It is, indeed, beneath each level and I demand 16 responsibilities from the Council of Ministers when it comes to Parliament this and the MPs in this House. That's the answer to the answer, and I'll get back to you and I've got one question for you. I don't know when I'm at the pay phone, Mr. Chairman, and I told him.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8214	Let's go after the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Moranjkić. It won't be hard for you to come again. I'm glad to hear it from you. Gosodin Miro-Ivo-Ivo Jović has a need for comment? He has a need to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8215	Thank you very much. My question was about filling the State Border Service with professional staff from the Croatian people's ranks. People who applied for and applied for tenders two years ago have not been admitted to this service and have not received answers until today. And, in my knowledge, there were five positions missing that belonged to representatives of the Croatian people in administrative positions or command positions. However, I have received an answer saying that not five but eight in such places still many in other places in the same service lacks personnel from the order of the Croatian people, meaning two years and more. They explain it by the fact that they submitted, in fact, to the contest. This competition has been reported or has not been reported by the appropriate anchors, because IPTF is the final phase that gives consent to the appointment of people in this service. I just came out loud to say what the problem is and how long the secret problem will be. So they claim that there are eight people in the administrative and command posts, and then they add one formal sentence that gets one other weight and thinking of people who gave me the answer about that one set of people in the order of the Croatian people missing in this service and it's not just those eight.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8216	Thank you, Mr. Jović. Who wants to ask a parliamentary question? Mrs. Palavrić. When did you get the answer? Mr. Avdić, you can repeat the question, and you can't comment, you don't have an answer. Wait a minute, Mr. Avdić. Let me take a look at article 128. Wait a minute. I can't know everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8217	Since the Council of Ministers has not simply agreed on my question, which I repeat once again. That the Council of Ministers urgently synthesises several documents, of which I note, the Buldozer Commission, the PRSI-PI, the Strategy for Economic Development, etc. and, in this context, a document to be submitted to this Parliament in full under the name of economic and social reform in 2003 for BiH, which means that, unless, within the foreseen deadline, the Council of Ministers responded, I ask that this be placed as a point of the agenda at the next session of the House of Representatives, quite clearly. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8218	Mr. Avdić, thank you for taking the floor, it wasn't that, but, well, you were the first person to submit an initiative within this sub-point, actually asking parliamentary questions. We're moving on. Eh, like this now. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, Mr. Špirić, we're going in this order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8219	Fellow chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I have two questions. The first issue concerns the work of the Information and Protection Agency for BiH. You know how much trouble it was to get to the law establishing this agency and, as Parliament, we seem to have lost sight of our concerns about creating conditions for the work of an important state agency, from which strengthening and training depends on the effectiveness of the fight against crime, corruption and all that is inflicting great evil on BiH. In this regard, I am asking the Secretary of Staff and the Director of the Agency to inform us how activities are going on material, spatial, human resources, accommodation and financial equipment, as well as the agency. Is there any resistance to this agency doing its job? Have these resistances been recorded? It is saddened, ladies and gentlemen, that representatives of the international community are more often commenting on weaknesses and, I would say, the inadequate relationship between the state authorities and the restoring ministry to establish and equip such a significant and important agency. Is there really a need for criminals to walk Bosnia and Herzegovina and on a different level of real major damage to the budget at different levels of government, until the donor equipment for work and the agency located in boxes lies in a separate room. I think this Parliament must have an active relationship, therefore, according to joint agencies, institutions formed at the state level, that it must encourage their work and simply seek space in creating optimal conditions for the work of those agencies. I particularly insist on this agency, because I appreciate that its importance is very important for what needs to be solved in BiH. My second question was addressed to the BiH presidency members. Did the BiH Presidency decide to mention Jasenovac's victims to Mr. Sulejman Tihić's member, to mention Blyburg's victims, to go to the Čović's office, and to get Mr. Paravac's day off and does Mr. Paravac even appreciate the mention of these victims deserve their attention? I think it was sent, perhaps, an ugly message in such a way that the Presidency must act in agreement and synchronised. I believe that sometimes a mistake can be made out of ignorance, but it does, believe me, from a wider public perspective, great harm to the country we live in. That's two questions, and I'm going to deliver them in writing, and I'm looking for a written answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8220	Thank you. Mrs. Palavrić. Next, Mr. Ćeman signed up. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8221	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me ask a third question that I first asked over two months ago, and it's a question. How many commissions, working bodies, agencies, etc. What is established by what of this assembly, which of the Council of Ministers, which of the international community exists in BiH? What's the number of employees? What's their salary? On this occasion, I ask the Honorable College not to go over this situation of silence and to require the Council of Ministers to start answering their questions, however. Also, I repeat another question I asked at the last session, which is that. We know that under certain conditions, the European Union, therefore, has made it easier for BiH to export agricultural products to its market. I asked the European Integrations direkcija last time and the Council of Ministers what are the conditions so we can meet them and how our farmers can start exporting agricultural products to the European Union market. And here I expect the help of the College of this House in getting answers to the asked question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8222	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Let the gentleman prepare himself...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8223	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so I'm asking a question, which I've asked before, that is, why I didn't get the question, and for a reminder, it's about the following. It won't be chronological, but since today is May 13th, and I am on January 13th, at the 7th session, he asked a question similar to that later asked by counterpart Moranjkić. At least he had the honour of getting any answer. I, however, have not received any answer and this is about the following. Namely, the question came up. Between 1992 and 1995, a number of BiH industrial plants "dislocated outside BiH to Serbia, Montenegro etc. in Croatia, i.e. Yugoslavia, within the framework of the then-led policy, especially in a section now called the RS entity. Are there any updated and systematic data on this and could these facilities, equipment and the like be used after returning to solving the current unemployment problems in BiH? What is the state of the equipment, including the part that is now called the Federation of BiH, dislocated and is it operational? Is there anything that state and entity bodies can do to get the related equipment back to who it belongs to and how much investment is needed, if it's worth putting into service? Finally, did any authority in BiH and entities deal with these issues when? So it was my question at the 7th session of 13th January 2003. Before that, on 23.12. I asked two questions that I also did not get an answer. It's the first of them. What are BiH's financial obligations to citizens based on judicial decisions, including the House of Human Rights? On what specific basis and how are these financial obligations carried out? 19 I also had the next question at the same session, so the fifth session of 23.12 last year. Is there also an up-to-date data on the Bosnian-Herzegovina diaspora, in terms of how much in which country, i.e. The state finds a BiH citizen? How many were there before 30.04.1992, and how many according to the latest updated data, the state, and how many are in the period '96. – In 2000, a BiH citizen, requested discharge from citizenship and how many solutions were made during that period. That is what I asked for to prepare myself to discuss the amendments to the Law on Citizenship that was current sometime in the period after that and the Act on the Emeralds of Emmigrants, which we are just talking about. Of course, I didn't get an answer for this either. And, in the end, I asked for an answer, to the soul, a month ago, which could have been given maybe already at the session itself, but perhaps today, too, can, but I don't see anyone from the Ministry who could, from the Resort Ministry, give an answer. Namely, the question came up. Whether the Council of Ministers, i.e. the RES, is working on the preparation of the law, on the basis of laws, on the basis of which the Institute for Standards, the Institute for Measurement, or the Institute for Intellectual Property, would be established as separate administrative organisations. If they are being prepared and at what stage and when can they be expected in the parliamentary procedure? The question should be answered as soon as possible, because the deadlines set by the law that applies, which has been arranged by the organisation of these institutes, stand out somewhere under the end of the year. So, I, in fact, want to encourage the Council of Ministers to prepare these laws, if not, for one of us to sit down and do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8224	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Hazim Felić has his word. Let Mr. Elmir Jahić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8225	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, My question to the Council of Ministers is addressed and I request a written answer. Why sports throats full-blood gallopers from the UN-San canton area don't care to compete outside BiH's borders, while from other parts of BiH, such throats are allowed to cross the state border. Namely, what's this about? In the last few years, the competition of these full-blood gallopers has been prevented from the territory of the Unsko-San canton. The last such case happened last weekend in Zagreb, simply those throats and owners are unable to compete outside BiH's borders. And it's really a matter of discrimination, and I'm asking a written answer to see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8226	Thank you. Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8227	I would first of all like to point out one fact that several sessions in a row have actually been broken by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sead Avdić mentioned this, therefore, Article 128. You know that within 15 days it is required to answer in writing parliamentary questions, it may possibly be an extension of ten days. I've been asking the same question for the third session in a row, and as you can see, a large number of other colleagues have that problem. 20 I, indeed, ask the College of this House not to repeat these things, especially when I have information that my question has not reached the chairman, let alone the Council of Ministers. I, in truth, ask the College to take care of it. I'll just try to repeat the question. Namely, it was mandatory to provide us with a report from the auditor on the CIPS project. And I, therefore, ask that this report be delivered to the MPs so that we may conduct a quality debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8228	I thank Mr. Jahić. Who's next with the question? We're going down the column. Mr. Zorić answered, I'm told. Mr. Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8229	Looks like we'd have a lot shorter sessions if we got answers to the question. I repeat the question. I asked two questions on April 9th, one of them is any club of MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly having working rooms and why the HDZ-Democracy Club does not have a room for the club's work and when it will be available. I repeat the question and beg to be answered. Every answer is the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8230	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Next down in sequence, after Mr. Zorić, who's next for the question? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8231	Mr. Chairman, my question is. I ask the Council of Ministers or someone, since I see that the Council of Ministers is not responsible for drawing up information on the current state of trade relations between BiH and the countries with which trade is conducted or taking place? I especially stress that there is a need to respond. What are these relationships achieved today when it comes to export-import? What are or what will be the measures taken by the government to bring the same relations into normal relations, in other words when and in what way will the existing imbalances be reduced, because the existing situation as it leads to pure colonialism and the relations that lead this country to ruin?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8232	Thank you. Let's see in this line after the gentleman down there there's no more. Let's get this side over here. Who's first? Mr. Gligorić. Here you go. Next time, we'll take this side. It's not a problem at all. So one day we're gonna go down, and then we're gonna change. It can't be remembered. You're not applying. I will not honor you with disrespect for the Rules of Procedure. I'm supposed to have a registered debate here, but here we are. Please, nice. Next time you'll be first. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Špirić, since there is no Mr. Raguž, Dama and gentlemen MPs and members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers a parliamentary question to answer. On whose proposal was Mrs Dragica Miletić appointed as BiH Attorney? How'd the election procedure go? Whether the decision had taken into account the work so far appointed in the Commission for the Updating of the Treaty until 15/07/2002, when, during that period, the OHR recommendation, which is this document in hand, was requested to be replaced by all the Commission and also by Minister Mićić at that time by the Minister for Refugees and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which he did. This OHR memo says, quote, just a little bit. "Such behaviour, means shift, where the OHR shift request stands. Such behavior, not only is it wrong, but it has a note of corruption. Mrs Miletić must not be allowed to continue her supervisory role as public defender in monitoring the work of the Commission. Accordingly, we firmly urge you to relieve all members of the Commission and replace these individuals with qualified people, who will comply with the law. We also ask that you immediately fine all the members of the Commission, etc., on the other hand, possible criminal sanctions against these individuals should be seriously considered. It is in the request for the replacement of all the members of the Commission to update the contract in Banja Luka during that period. Furthermore, did the Council of Ministers have any knowledge that Dragica Miletić was acting as deputy public defender based in Banja Luka, and then, as a procuring officer of the RS public defender, was her work legitimate and were there criminal charges and abuses of position and authority, i.e. unconscious work in RS institutions? There is a serious question about what kind of staff policy of the Council of Ministers, when, instead of the issues of responsibility, in particular, the possibility of forwarding in a higher career, in this case at the state level for the same area of defence. I ask you to answer the parliamentary question. Notify the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, as the Council of Ministers decided at its 8th session to appoint BiH Advocates and BiH Deputy Advocates, published in Official Messenger No 11. So, from 26 April 2003. I ask this question in principle, given that reforms are being carried out in the judiciary. If such frames, right now at this point, let me say, untested biographies will come to the highest level and do the duty? So will the judiciary have, in some ways, a result? You know what the Commission's work is to trust the contract during this disputed period. That's not what we need to talk about, so I'm asking you to give an answer. Who suggested it? How was the election procedure? What did you have in mind? Do you, by the way, check when someone suggested or was on the SDS and PDP's proposal to exercise power?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8234	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Who's next? Mr. Milorad Živković, Mr. Kragulj and Novaković. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8235	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say the same thing. It is obvious that since the beginning of the work of this Parliament, the institutions, that is, the item of the agenda, which is called parliamentary issues and answers, we are not doing very well. In some parliaments, it is a very important item of the agenda, even having a regular, mandatory television broadcast for the watch, as far as the agenda point is concerned. Sir, my esteemed colleague Jahić has well noted that even the Rules of Procedure, Rule 128, are not respected here and, I would like to ask the Presidency, given that two and a half questions have not yet been answered. These are oral questions and one written answer to note Article 128 and point 5 where it is said that, if these issues are not delivered within this period, each MP has the right to make the issue compulsory. Don't make these sessions unnecessarily complicated. Let's put order into this agenda point. And with that, I suggest a very operational conclusion that reads. It undertakes the Council of Ministers to provide all answers to parliamentary questions, no later than the next session of Parliament. Of course, they mean all those questions they didn't get an answer to, because this delay isn't just a formal character. It's also a practical character. We from the Foreign Affairs Commission should visit Croatia and Slovenia. I asked my colleague a question about Croatia's intention to delay radio-active waste near Novi Grad – Bosanski Novi. I am keenly interested in the Council of Ministers' response on this and what activities have been taken to adequately address this issue with parliamentarians from Croatia.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8236	Thank you, Mr. Živković. We will certainly put your proposal to the vote. I will personally support him. Next up is Mr. Kragulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8237	The Honorable Presidency, very briefly, honourable MPs, I would ask the Council of Ministers the following. Why, for which reasons, the customs administration of the entity cannot provide data on imports and exports of product types or tariffs. I'll just explain this to the next one. By this year, or last year, we have been through the economic chambers of entities, or the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which monitors this area, able to obtain data by specific products, or groups of products, so that they can use this to raise certain questions about the conditions of production. In particular, here, I have sought data in the area of meat processing and livestock, given the very difficult situation in the area and I am responsible that in this year, the RS entity can no longer give such data. There's a question here, is there anything to be monitored about business conditions and suggested without such data? Can you track free trade agreements with the countries with which we have concluded? Next, we think it's a matter of knowledge or negligentness or not knowing the situation at all. I don't know if it's obstruction, corruption, etc. But I don't think it's possible for us to have data in one period and in another period, instead of improving that situation, we're bringing it into a difficult position, or we're left without the most basic data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8238	Thank you. Mr. Novaković is next, as far as I can tell. Here you go. I'd like to ask you just a little attention to end this item on the agenda and then we'll take 23 15 minutes to take a break, take a little time. We'll take a break and we'll all go out together and not like this individually, please. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8239	I don't have any new questions, but like others who have warned of the unswerving, so I have questions that I have answered, and I want to ask them again. So, one is posted at the previous session, and it's about the compensation of property for the owners, so in the villages of the bush municipality, so the owners of the land, the houses, the objects on which was the polygon Barbara. I was setting it up when I was in the House of Peoples and I didn't get it, and I don't know what the reason is that it can't be answered that it isn't or it's going to be or it won't be. The second question is, the question of the compatibility of MPs' functions. That's what I asked the Electoral Commission and I didn't get that question. I don't see why it's so hard for someone to say whether the function of a Member is compatible with the position of director of public institutions, we know what character they are. You know, please, I'm vexing these two questions again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8240	The next is not in this, Mr. Adem Huskić, and we still have Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović and I will have a quick question and let's conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8241	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have also asked a parliamentary question two months ago, so I'm going to repeat it again. It's been like this ever since. Who owns and what is the fate of the facilities, whose owner was the Socialist Republic of BiH, and who are currently out of office and how many, even, such objects? It's an old question I'm repeating now. I have a new question. Who has so far taken the Council of Ministers' activities and intends to continue to protect the assets of BH legal persons located in the territory of the former SFRY member states and is there any signature of that property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8242	Thank you. Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović. I'm just asking the Service to go to my office upstairs and have a fax for me and get it here. I believe he's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8243	Thank you. I will ask one question to the Council of Ministers and one to the College of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives. The Council of Ministers. When will the Council of Ministers deliver to the BiH Parliament a work programme for 2003. I repeat and remind you, I'm asking the question on May 13, 2003. The question of the College, and in particular I am initiating the explanation and explanation of the chairman of this House for the debate on the Law on Education. By which 24 different criteria will apply in the context of the debate and adoption procedures according to the agenda points. An example, a different treatment of the law, who are the legislators? The draft law, which was sent to the parliamentary procedure by MP Avdić, is the conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly has made earlier, to declare the Council of Ministers, and here we have today the agenda item without the Council of Ministers' position. Or, secondly, not including on the agenda statements on the procedure of the education law 22.04. because the 21st was only the law in the parliamentary procedure, and the inclusion on the agenda, here, as we did today at the telephone call of the Registrar Minister for Ratification of the Japanese Grant Agreement with an explanation of urgency. Does that mean the education law isn't urgent?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8244	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have one question. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8245	The word has the chairman, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8246	You are, probably via the media, familiar with the problem of importing semi-fabricated products into the female company "BH Steel Company" and with the request of the customs authorities to secure a bank guarantee worth around 2 million KM so that the company can at all exempt the semi-factory from customs supervision and continue to work. It's a business worth a few million marks. Another 300 employees are employed. The Federation government, as far as I know, has referred a request to the Council of Ministers for interpretation of customs regulations and a request for a statement on the issue. So I'm asking the Council of Ministers. Has the Council of Ministers received, therefore, the request and the resolution, of course, of the ministry. I don't know what ministry it is right now, but here I am talking about the Council of Ministers. So, did that request come in? Was the Council of Ministers obvious? If he arrived when will he manifest himself and in what way? So I appeal to the Council of Ministers that in this situation, it is a state-owned company dealing with strategic production, strategically for this country. So, to take care of this request and to do everything in the power of the Council of Ministers to allow BH stil Kompani from Zenica to semi-factory you, therefore,... to be put into production. So, so much for the parliamentary question. I'm going right now, please, I'm going to give her a break for 15 minutes just to figure out this agenda point. I've got some things I need here. Please, don't make it unclear. First of all, MPs can't ask questions to MPs, and I'm an MP here. But since Mrs Hadžiahmetović has asked one question for the sake of all of you here, I, therefore, want to say that the Rules of Procedure of this House has been respected in every situation so far. Mrs Hadžiahmetović, you have listed several different situations, to which different regimes are applied which are foreseen in the Rules of Procedure. Believe me, the school law, the education framework law I was waiting for personally in my office 21 when they would arrive. He came in this afternoon. I knew it was session 22, and I wanted it to be 22. But, please, consider the views of members of the Enlargement College who do not have the law in the morning, or are just getting it, and in an hour and a half the session begins and I ask them to see if they can accept that debate at the session. Their reaction is correct that in an hour and a half I can't read that law and I can't decide at the session when they haven't seen it. 25 As far as Mr Potočnik's proposal is concerned, I am obliged to put on the agenda everything under article 105, provided that the MPs have received this text and have read it. Mr. Potočnik's proposal came a few days before this session. He has one page and he could read it and I, therefore, please when you object to the College, you have the right to object, but give it to him specifically, so let's see what it is about kolegij, so if this college or I as chairman don't do our job right, then alive we'll find someone else who will work. We'll find someone else to do what's right, but the Rules of Procedure of this House will be respected. This is what I needed to say, to comment. As far as the questions are concerned, believe me, all questions have been forwarded to the addresses they are referred to. I was checking it out the other day with the Home Secretary on one of my MPs' questions that I had asked earlier. The following day questions were immediately forwarded to the addresses where they were sent. I, uh, here's what I'm doing, or we're assigning Skertar Dom to check what's going on with the CIPS Audit Office's report. Has that report arrived in Parliament? In a few years, everything in Parliament applies, and it concerns the report of the Office of Audit, and as regards the CIPs, please, if it is not shared with the MPs, give it immediately, there is no reason not to go into the hands of the Members. We should go and discuss it. And, in the end, I think Mr. Živković is absolutely right. A lot of questions are being asked, answers are coming, but they don't come the way they should come and how they come in other parliaments. I agree that the time to ask parliamentary questions is a special part of the session that we should all pay attention to, given the fact that MPs are having problems, asking, therefore, questions. That's what the public needs to be familiar with, and I advocate that, therefore, I plead so that we all act responsibly, as responsible as possible. That is why I think the proposal for a conclusion by Mr. Živković is correct, that this House is now voting a conclusion which will oblige the Council of Ministers to ask all the questions that have been asked so far, and to which they have not given answers to the delivery until the next session of the House of Representatives. I'm putting the proposal to the vote. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. I'm taking a break until 12 o'clock and 10 minutes. Please, precisely, at 12 and 10 we proceed. 32 MPs are in the O.R. [[PAUZA]] So we'll be working until 13:30 and we'll have a break from 13:30 to 14:00 because the College has one obligation in that period, the entire College. Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Maternity of Immigrants of BiH – the law is in the second reading, as you know at the 11th session of the Proposal for a Law on the Matika of Immigrants, we discussed in the second reading. The law did not receive an entity majority, and the reconciliation procedure was carried out. You've received a report from the College of Harmony. The college has failed to reach agreement and we need to hold a second round of voting. 26 I ask you the whole House, who's in favor of the law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? Who are the abstentions? Give me the results. From 34 – 20 for – 14 against. So the law has general parliamentary support. We're moving on to a statement in the second round. I ask the MPs of the Federation who is against the law? I ask the MPs of the RS who is against the law? I ask the MPs of the RS again to plead to me is not clear. I ask who is against the law of RS lawmakers is the same condition, MPs from RS to raise their hands against the law. Thirty-four MPs voted in favour. For it was 20 - 14 it was against. So the law has general parliamentary support. The Federation was against four. So, it's much less than two-thirds and from the RS 10 MPs were against, it's two-thirds and the law hasn't been passed. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach the agreement of MP Seade Palavrić to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH under the urgent procedure of Article 105. At the 12th session, Parliamentarian Seade Palavrić's request that the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Citizenship of BiH be considered under Article 105 has not been given an entity majority. A coordination procedure has been carried out in the Commission. You have received a report from the Commission on the alignment. The College reached agreement on Mrs Palavrić's request to consider the bill under Article 105. Therefore, consider the procedure laid down in Article 105 of the Law and in accordance with Article 65(3), we inform the House. We move on to a debate about the bill itself, or we move on to a statement about the law itself. Who's up for the law? I'm asking the House as a whole. Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against the law? Who are the abstentions? We're going to vote on the entities. Who's from the Federation of Law? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? Who's from the RS for the law? Thank you, too. A total of 35 – 32 voted in favour – 3 are against. There is this general parliamentary support. The Federation is 23 for the law, which is a lot more than one-third. From Republika Srpska, 9 is for the law, which is also much more than a third and I declare that the House of Representatives passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, proposed by MP Sead Palavrić. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. The request of MP Mladen Potočnik to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in BiH under an urgent procedure under Article 105. The proposal for this law with the request of the MP Potočnik to be considered by an emergency procedure was adopted at the House on 29 April and sent to MPs on 30 April 2003. 27 We are considering the first emergency procedure request. There's already been a debate here, but here I have to reopen the debate, so the debate on the procedure. Can I help you? Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the procedure. Who is it that this law is considered by Article 105 who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you, too. I'm asking from the Federation of MPs who he is to go after Article 105. The Federation of Voices? Did you count it? Thank you. From RS who's in favour? So here's the deal. A total of 35 MPs 19 voted in favour – 11 voted against – 5 were abstentions. So the request for a vice has the necessary general parliamentary majority. The Federation voted 9th -- RS voted 10th. There's no entity majority from the Federation and the procedure goes to a co-ordination in the College. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.6. The Council of Ministers' request to discuss the Law on Amendments to the Law on the sealing of BiH institutions following the urgent procedure of the draft law with the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure, under Article 105, was adopted at the House on 8 May. As you have seen, it is indeed about the short law and the amendment that followed the reorganisation of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to accept the procedure under Article 105? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. 37 for, without, and without, abiding. I understand the procedure has been accepted. We're going to make a statement about the law. Who's up for the law? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I agree that we voted unanimously with 37 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, by the Law amending the Law on the sealing of BiH institutions. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH - by emergency procedure, but Article 104. So, it's practically a shortened procedure, they're shortening by half, the possibility of investing in amendments exists unlike those that go under Article 105 where that possibility doesn't exist. Proposal for a law requiring consideration pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, delivered to home on 21 April 2003, was delivered to MPs on 22 April 2003. We have a request for a brief procedure, therefore, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a hearing on that request. Mr. Nikola Špirić is asking for a word. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8247	My colleagues chairing, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, given that, in the framework of the establishment of the agenda, there is more rapprochement on the procedure and less on the agenda points, I would like to say a few words about this legislative project. I think it is an important system law, which deserves the attention of MPs, and I think that the shortened procedure, which is otherwise related to the ordinary legislative procedure, therefore, reduces all Parliament's activities in half. It allows, but to the soul, it requires one, perhaps, more intense work of MPs on the line to reach this legal project. I will, of course, president of my party's club will say the club's position, I speak now as an MP. I am prepared to support the Council of Ministers' proposal for this law to be considered in a shortened procedure, by asking that today, if this is a predominant thought, that the next session of Parliament, therefore, when a debate is held only on the principles of this legislative project. So, if the next session we have were just one item of the agenda, which will be related to this law, that would mean that MPs have 15 minutes or I don't know how many days to lead each other's dialogues and club presidents to come to the necessary majority to adopt the law. So let's not burden the next session with any part of the agenda unless something comes up urgently that we can't personally influence. So, I am prepared to consider this law and in this sense I will give my support to this proposal and, behold, I would pray that we may say that the next session is dedicated only to this point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8248	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Seada Palavrić, Mr. Gligorić, please come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8249	Allow me to state in the name of the Party of Democratic Action, under which there are no obstacles to this law going in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, the truth is not the advocates responsible for the deadlines that we have set and accepted not being respected until now. But for the past 20 days, there has been an opportunity to get acquainted with the text of the law, and in some kind of procedure, this law has, however, been in the past two years, in some kind of public debate. And, I understand my colleagues who spoke in determining the agenda on the essence of the law. So, I find their fear unwarranted. We certainly have an amendment to the proposed text of the law. The procedure under Article 104 does not prevent us from working out and making amendments. I think the minister himself made an argument, which doesn't allow us to behave differently, but rather to say that the procedures under Article 104. Anything else at this point would be too much, anything else would be too much to talk about. So the rest of the principles on which the law is based and its essence will be discussed in the discussion that is conducted in the reading process and in the second reading. However, when setting deadlines under Article 104, I suggest that we make sure that the school year begins in early September, that the other entities must, we must leave them time to do the job so that this law can be applied since September. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8250	Thank you. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić then Mr. Kragulj, Mr. Belkić after Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8251	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this important law, I don't think there's any doubt that he needs BiH. We had a Constitutional and Legal Commission yesterday and we discussed it and I can tell you that we have been discussing this important issue for almost two hours. It was for and against arguments in terms, in particular it was taken into account whether regular procedure or shortened. Given that the Council of Ministers has proposed a shortened procedure, and yet, I think the Constitutional and Legal Commission should go in that direction to propose to you here today that kind of opportunity. Mr Špirić has already spoken about this shortened deadline and the possibility of making it possible, through the intensity of the work, in some way, to reach the position that, eventually, something should be fixed. I think they've been working for almost two years now, that they've had parity on the commission, so to speak, all represented both entity and people, and that we've practically come to the final document. Meanwhile, many remarks have also been made, which should be proposed in the light of the amendments. I think we should take advantage of that, but in the meantime, I'd like to ask that we have this need for it to be just as important to end quickly. The registration, practically, of the school year starts in 2-3 days if I haven't made a mistake, but at the same time on the other side of the Constitutional Commission, yesterday was in some way and when we talk about the deadline for having even until 2004, and yet this year, I know when Mrs. Sonja Mozer was one of the priorities is certainly the law on primary and secondary education, certainly one of those three priorities she spoke of, so that all of this should be taken into account and made clear. At the same time when we're talking about the law-making procedure itself. Here, we have come to the situation that the Council of Ministers has proposed and we assume that they have done this quality, professionally, etc. and that it should be accepted, and at the same time there comes a lot of objections from the order of the Serbian and Croatian people, and there again in the Council of Ministers we have representatives of both the Croatian and the Serbian people and they did not consider it to be important or at that point they did not, or they wanted to suggest that something change in Parliament. We now have such a situation that if we support what the Council of Ministers proposed and by procedure we said by 104 and at the same time in the integrated text they sent, we have the possibility or we have the opportunity to try to fix something in this remaining period. I was restrained on the Constitutional Commission at the time, relating to that kind of vote, because it was talked about the legal basis above all. The Constitutional and Legal Commission had the task, but you always know how to spread that story. The main observation was that, when we talk about human rights under Article 2, it is always proposed so that everything in this society is not defined, i.e. in the Constitution of BiH under the Dayton Agreement in those ten tax responsibilities. The issue remains an ongoing transfer of powers from the Social Life Constitution, which needs to be regulated by law, which is not regulated, or taxed in those ten competencies belonging to BiH. It's a constant stumbling block. On one side, the leaders find themselves, agree and say, we want to go to the Council of Europe, we want to fill 351 points, we're on loan, we want the Roadmap, which is partially finished. We also have a commitment to the European Union and then everything when you say you have, then it's all the opposite of the Dayton Constitution, because it's not explicitly said, because it needs legal regulation, the law is regulated, and then it doesn't have those ten powers, or it has, but most of it doesn't. Then the problem inside the Council of Ministers is we also have people who propose and release it in the process, and at some level we say, no, no, we can't reduce the jurisdiction of Dejton, we have the Constitution, we have Dejton etc. and on the other hand we have parties from the Federation who want to change the Constitution, want this and that and we have one complete confusion in BiH, and I say that we cannot go forward from such a chaotic, political and legal state, and at the same time, surely when it comes to education both basic and medium and high that we are not talking about the Bologna Declaration, etc. We're ruining students, a generation that needs to replace us. And between that human relationship as a human that I should support this and all of the procedures of the confused politicians in BiH can't find any golden environment. So I've got my point of view, so I'll back it up, but I'm saying, it would be good if we did, however, take a little account. We are constantly tripping about every next law that comes to our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8252	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Kragulj. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself. Then comes Mr. Križanović, a man has called earlier twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8253	Well, given the importance of this law, and especially given the prepared commitment in the Council of Europe, we think it is necessary to support this law in this procedure and to comply with the request of the viejće of Ministers to consider the law under Article 104. We must respect that this law was in the Council of Ministers. Yes, in the Council of Ministers, there are representatives of the ruling option from both entities and a broad consultation has certainly been carried out so that what the Council of Ministers could propose to this parliament. I think there is, regardless of the reduced procedure that there is enough time from the next 15 days, that all the necessary consultations and preparations can be carried out to reach a compromise on its final adoption through the amendments, and in this respect we expect the maximum understanding of all MPs that what comes from the amendments we will try to consider, as a matter of fact, so that we can finally adopt the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8254	Thank you, Mr. Kragulj. Mr. Belkić, let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8255	Dear colleagues, gospodin Zorić is right in some way. We reopened one kind of debate, but because of the importance of the whole project. I don't think it's a bad idea for us to jump out of procedures in these situations. I will repeat that the Party for BiH will not insist on Article 105 but will, after all, support the Council of Ministers' request to apply the procedure under Article 104, I would like, in addition to the reasons mentioned here on several occasions by most MPs, to be assigned by the current situation in this area, which we must indeed face, because it is the darkest form of segregation and discrimination. So it's a very important thing that we can't forget and we can't lose a day if we can't lose it. I think 31 is good what Mr. Špirić suggests that perhaps we should conclude that we should dedicate one session, that the entire session should be dedicated to this problem, but it would be good to say and what is the deadline. Is it possible to organize that session until 20th and some May, possibly? I propose, too, that, since it is mentioned here that many amendments have come from the people and notes that these remarks and suggestions, if there are written and if they are already in the institutions, to distribute them to the MPs as soon as possible. I hope we don't break the Rules of Procedure. It would be good for the efficiency of getting these comments and suggestions in time, which will likely later receive the form of an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8256	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Have Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare, and then Mr. Jovanović Miloš comes. Okay, Mr. Novaković, then after that, Mr. Avdić, and then he answered, indeed, before, and then Mr. Jovanović. Let's make it a turn. Remember him now, you too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8257	I would like to remind you that yesterday at a session of the Colleges in an extended composition, therefore, with the heads of the parliamentary parties represented in this House, we adopted a framework plan for this year's work. What can be concluded from this plan is that this home will have a lot of work to do this year. To be followed by the adoption of very important laws, no less important than what we are discussing, which also applies to higher education, also concerns the law on BiH schools, defence laws, etc. I mean, we have to be aware, really, because that's how we made a commitment to do this job knowingly and responsibly, especially in this year when we committed ourselves to implementing the reform. I am not talking here about the importance of this law, but I am really going to join the opinions of those colleagues who said this is one of the important laws that BiH is bringing into one position of a normal country. Regardless of the procedure we opt for today, under which we will discuss this law, I fully respect the opinion that, because of this importance, so much importance of this law is expected for very many amendments, a lot of remarks and suggestions to improve it. What is important, however, by respecting the time of application of this law, is that we now need to determine the times in which we can do so. That is why I am again affirming my proposal for a conclusion that I have made in the context of the debate on the agenda, that today, regardless of the outcome of the vote on the procedure, we will set 10.06 as the deadline within which we would conclude the overall debate on the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8258	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8259	My fellow MPs, since we are discussing today, practically, the procedure to discuss this law, then, indeed, I will be just like my colleagues before me very briefly. Some things, or events related to this law, need to be made clear here when we are discussing the procedure. Indeed, it cannot stand the finding of the Secretary-General that we are late in procedure and that there is pressure on the House of Representatives, and if we have received this law, we have seen from the chairman, somewhere after 25 and 26 respectively, from the deadlines of the Council of Ministers late. What's he late for? Well, gentlemen, it's precisely because we didn't respect each other. Which is why this law has been in some kind of public debate for two years. Which at some meetings, not some sort of meeting, but, therefore, the meetings between the entity representatives agreed something, and then in law it wasn't what was agreed, but something else and the law suddenly became controversial and therefore the debate lasted, as long as it lasted. We and here have observations that in the text of the law there is much different from what was agreed or agreed on, but the subject of this session is not the subject, but the subject of the debate when we discuss objections to the text of the law, but I mean that it cannot come out with such a conclusion and break the burden of responsibility for lateness and deadlines on this home which did not even have a law in the procedure and pressure it to adopt it by some other procedure than that of regular procedure. As usual when discussing some laws that, let's say, are conditionally problematic, then we begin to list who's for reform and who's against reform, and then those who even think about the procedure are against reform, unlike those who are so plentiful for reform and so dependent on each law. One law contains one for reforms, the other law seems to have the other for reforms, all depending on who has any interest, not only in political parties, but also on the people from which political parties came out. I don't know if it's controversial to find this law in the process at all. I don't know if he's touching jurisdiction. It's a matter of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I have that opinion. I guess it's no longer questionable that this law should be passed, at least, I think, according to what we've seen here. But what's the scope? What text? And on what nuance? There is not much to do with entering the Council of Europe. That's the thing that we need to work out here and it depends on us here how, starting with the law itself that shouldn't be called what it's called, but it's supposed to be called the principle law, meaning the framework law on principles, so he'd probably have a completely different content later on, so I don't know, the law itself. So, indeed, I ask my colleagues that, when they debate, they take it as a well-intentioned discussion, aimed at accepting and adopting a law that is acceptable to everyone. The adoption of laws that are unacceptable to anyone, or who makes a majority, we do not speak to the congregation majority, I speak of the nations, is a big problem. Later his application is a problem. We can pass the law, if it can't be applied on the ground, as if we haven't adopted it, in fact, it's not like we haven't adopted it, but we've made it worse than we haven't adopted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8260	Thank you. Mr. Avdić, and let Mr. Jovanović prepare himself. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8261	I'd just like to repeat some more facts and explain the need for urgency of passing this law. First of all, if there is one definition that education is a mission that represents the beginning of everything in one country, then objectively, this law must be taken seriously and in this context do everything through various discussions in the BiH Parliament and get as high-quality legislation as possible. At the same time, the law presents a sort of political test of one and the other home of the BiH Parliament, shown safely on its way to the Council of Europe and, in particular, recently at Parliament's thematic sessions on the road to European integration, which means the law is on its way to European integration, BiH's obligations and in this context, must be one of the strategic documents for the functioning of a country. Given that the programme of the House of Representatives was foreseen in the current year, 2003 and the consideration, i.e. the adoption of a law on higher education, then a complete mosaic of all kinds of education is formed, meaning from basic, medium to high education, which means that it is not at all a questionable need, simply to adopt such a legal act. I suggest next. Yes, it is simple that, in the next 15 days, such as fellow Špirić and showed that we have the possibility to submit amendments, and that at the end of the month the thematic session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House is scheduled, invites and proposes to the House of Peoples to also be a joint session where only strategic issues, the principles of this law, would be discussed. So, once again, I repeat, a joint session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, where we would only consider first reading, and this would be the thematic session of both homes of the Parlment Assembly of BiH and then simply make efforts from 7 to 15 days so that special sessions could be scheduled, where amendments in second reading and in this context of the law would be considered, allow for the adoption of this law. I repeat once again the urgency is not disputed. Article 104 gives the possibility to consider the law relevantly, to achieve a more quality text and, in this context, repeats again, this law has a certain high degree of political consensus and international community, domestic, simple power factors, and should not be repeated that the Council of Ministers has proposed this law, the Council of Ministers who are participating and representatives of individual political parties, which make up the parliamentary majority and in this House of Representatives, which means it is extremely uninvited for the Council of Ministers to adopt legislative projects, which says counterpart Gligorić, and when they come to the BiH Parliament, then we simply have problems. It would be good if the political parties agreed before the Council of Ministers' positions, that we simply have a consistent parliamentary procedure and a path towards adoption of legislative projects. So it is extremely uninvited that we simply have one opinion and one position on the Council of Ministers, and when it comes to parliamentary procedure, these laws experience some other treatments and other relationships, or observations, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8262	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Mr Miloš Jovanović has his word. Let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8263	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, last night I attended a session of the Extended College, where OSCE representatives told us, I don't see a gentleman here, I apologize for not knowing his name, that this 34 law is in line with the education and culture ministries in the RS. But we're getting one last night. I'll just read the part where he says it. So, material from the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the Framework Law did not take into account constructive remarks from the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia which were delivered to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the OSCE and ministers in the Council of Ministers. I really don't know what it's about or where it's true. So I have no reason to say that I doubt either of them, but I really don't understand what this is about. This is what we got in a hurry, this guy is dividing from the OHR, where he also writes. Finally, the education ministers of both entities and the minister of civil affairs unanimously supported the draft law at the last meeting, held in Sarajevo on 5 March 2003. So I'm going to say, this period until the next session, I'm really going to use it to see where the truth is and what it's about. So, specifically with our minister, let's check out everything that's been said, so I don't think it's disputed that this law goes according to a shortened procedure. I'll probably vote on a shortened procedure, but I'm really going to use this period to make the most of it, to see if I can tell you where these essential problems are, specifically with our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8264	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8265	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, if we are to discuss the procedure under which we will discuss this law, I, of course, in the capacity of MPs in this House, have no objection to this going by Article 104, given one principled thing that we have already heard from some here, which is, however, that, by Article 104, remains one, to the soul, a shortened period in which amendments to the bill can be intervened. It also implies a debate within the Commission, i.e. the working bodies, so that it does not in principle exclude the possibility of intervention on the text of this law, in the context of what is possible and already the procedure would show what is and what is not necessary, possibly, in it. So, when the procedure is a word, I support it. The written report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, although I do not speak in the capacity of the Chairman of the Commission at this time, I have signed and you should receive it and there is, in truth, any speech, that is, I am speaking on the basis of this knowledge that I am a member of this Commission, there have been any speeches and to what extent there is a constitutional basis or the extent to which the text of the law itself can cover one such qualification, but in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure to be applied in this House, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has taken the view that there is a constitutional and legal basis. I, in my capacity, to the soul of then, a member of the House of Peoples of this Parliament in 1999, submitted one text, one draft law in the procedure which intended that only one question, one segment which, in this law, I see is not listed, and I will try to intervene through the amendments to put it in. In fact, back in '99. For years, I have proposed a law that would, in principle, install one principle, which is that BiH, as a state, also has powers that can be exercised from constitutional competences, to influence the area of education, not to slow down, of course, to the extent that it is jurisdiction in the Federation and canton, or to the RS authority of that entity. So, but since we're not talking about the content of the law today and we're not talking about a concrete text, I'm going to spare you the elaborate on that subject, but I'm going to definitely use my 35 right to say on and on what I think. However, only so, since others have said something, I will try in truth, and I have tried to look at it from the point of view of those who disagree with this approach, even in the scope and some of the content parts, however, to say that this law is precisely the text that suggests and edits, which gives basic principles, etc. Which, indeed, I don't see any reason why she should be controversial, etc. But to finish, therefore, I support it and if we are on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, given these particular dilemmas that have been heard, we were inclined to maintain that this is going into regular procedure, but in truth, I don't see the reason and I already said that we can't do it in a very good way in that period of 15 days. So, I support that shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8266	Thank you, Mirsada. Who else wants to talk? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8267	I thank Mr. President for allowing me to speak, because in today's approach to problem number seven, we've mixed things up when we're talking about the agenda itself, then we've said a lot of things we'd say now. Now we'll say a lot when we talk about the law. I think that in itself says how important this problem is, and I'm glad that I put this high and appreciated home in a controversial situation. I'll do it, and I'll keep going. There is no question here today in front of us whether we need this framework of the law or not. I hope you've figured out my performances so far. Do we need a modern and European school? I think in this country, on the fingers of one of those people could stop who are pressuring it. Here, too, it's always heard that we need such a law urgently, but I'm afraid of its contents and I'm afraid of its quality professionally. That's what I've been here for the third time. We Imadosmo recently had a meeting here of both homes, topics, European integration and for a wonderful miracle today many of us have gone out for a pay phone to go to Europe, we need this law. And I see, if he goes like this, there's neither me nor my people in that Europe. Well, it's a basic violation of human and national rights, if he would go through this and so I ask you to respect the fact that we talk and perfecte and bring the law into those waters where it will be beneficial and beneficial to all. Constitutional solutions I said then after this speaker are one of the principles that will quickly bring us to Europe. Today we have a constitutional solution of gentlemen in the Federation of BiH that the Federal Ministry of Education and Science, before there were sports and culture, here, recently there has been no part of it, because a second ministry, a co-ordinating role, and Article 4. The Federation of BiH Constitution, paragraph 3, says sports, culture, science and education are at the county level. In the proposed law, you mate the total marginalization of the fact that this is the case. It all comes down to the entity. We got a few minutes ago from the OHR of this paper. Just listen to one statement. Finally, the education ministers of both entities and the minister of civil affairs unanimously supported the bill. Neither do I see the representative of the Croatian man here, nor do I see what is the constitutional solution. Someone on behalf of me made a deal on me. There's no small door to the transfer of such powers, if we're going to Europe. In Europe, we can respect the Constitution and constitutional solutions as long as we have them. So this could be a text. That it is finally the education ministers of the entity with a capital letter, the ministers of the county and the minister of civil affairs. Here, sir, you don't have to throw me away. I'm talking and I didn't bother you. You've been behind this pay phone longer than usual. You'll tell 36 when he gets there. I have to be able to say that because I ordered a camera because I have to show this to the Bosnian Herzegovina public and we here at the HDZ Club today are not on the occasion of a normal speech. You have to accept that, the psychosis in which we find ourselves taking on such a great responsibility. It's about total vital interest. Are we going to have our own culture here or not? It comes down to the county ministry to organise folklore societies which, again, must be multinational. So it turns out that I'm fighting it, a multicultural, multi-community society. I ask you, how are we going to push multiculturalism in this BiH unless the Croatian language is studied? Here, give me an answer. If that's what it's like. Let me get this straight. If everyone at school answers every child in the language in which Bog wills, the teacher will teach in the language in which Bog wills you. What about those people who are minorities in this country? We want to go back, back to that time of 50 years, where it was Serbian, and it was actually Serbian. Why are these irregularities in Croatian use of language here and here in the House and in the materials that we receive. He doesn't know the language, because we didn't teach him. And, please, whoever doesn't see it, then he's not a good friend to this country. Please, if we are going to work more quickly, and in the spirit of modernising the school system in this country and creating a legal framework for everyone, then I suggest that, because it is already a rush, representatives of the OSCE and representatives here from the order of us, as of tomorrow, from seven hours to start together in as short a time as possible, so why not, perhaps support this 10.06. bring quality new proposals through amendments, which could improve, which could improve, which would shape a law that would be agreed as I am talking about it. That's why I'm here. So, come on, if we're gonna get into a rush procedure, let's hurry right away from the morning. Let the gentlemen of the OSCE come and, behold, here we are who we are and who we are sitting here, let's do something that future generations would mention how nice, neat and civilized and democratic we have done. I think I see Mr. President in a hurry. I repeat, we cannot take responsibility for such an important matter. So, the mines are running from the modernisation of education, we're not running away from the adoption of this kind of framework law, we're not running away from the speedy procedure if it has to, we suggest, from tomorrow, that the representatives of the international community, through the OSCE, we bring here as soon as possible a proposal, so on one hand, here I'm going to agree with Mr Špirić, that proposal that he had to be this point of the agenda and I think that should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8268	Thank you, Mr. Jović. Don't rush me. Of course, today is a whole day reserved for this session, if there's more to it, but there's this Rules of Procedure, we have to stick to it, so just for that. Nothing more. Mr. Belkić is looking for an intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8269	Mr. Jović, I really apologize to you in advance, if you get the impression that I want to lead a replica with you, but I assure you that the way you have spoken to yourself, I am saying this in my personal name, to which you have addressed the MPs of the House of Representatives is not good. You have in some way already accused us and put us in a position to do something against the people of Croatia. I didn't notice it from any MPs in this assembly. We were simply discussing the procedure. I'm really asking you in the future when we're discussing all of us, to make sure that 41 listens to us and that we get into a situation where we're involved in 37 of some kind of project that's directed against some people. I assure you that no one's intention is intended here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8270	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8271	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I think that one major part of this debate is, in a certain way, either wrongly directed, or unnecessary. First, someone appreciated and assessed that this law belongs to a group of reformers, or let's call, mandatory laws that should be entered into the fast procedure under a specific programme. He appreciated and assessed that it should be a bum who can't be by system take or leave for one day. So, the 105th member was avoided. So the only thing we have left to do is solve it on speed. Whether this acceleration will be 100% respected mathematically at 15 days, or with one small addition, which we must feel here that we still need for further co-consultation with the base, with people working at that level, etc. I think a reasonable time period of 20 days is enough for us to be able to discuss this quality, and if we need to change this law, in terms of what someone sees behind this pay phone, it bothers that someone is in the form of a proposal, and the proposal has to go as it is, to change it and to agree it, to be all happy and to be that most of us going out for this pay phone says should be a quality law. That's why I'm suggesting a conclusion. Yes, so we accept that it goes under Article 104, with the fact that we are flexible to be the period proposed by Mr. Jozo Križanović there by June 10th, so that until then we take care of the visas of this law, the visas of the importance of the task we have adopted towards the international community and the need to force ourselves into life to speed up our work a little bit, to work on it and then sit down and really do do this law without bile and put it into life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8272	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. If no one answers their word, I'm the one who concludes the debate. So no one's answering for a word anymore. So, I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we need today to discuss the request of the Council of Ministers whether we accept a shortened procedure. It's called an emergency according to the Rules of Procedure, but it's essentially shortened because it allows for amendments to the law. So this procedure, which I hope we will vote on, is a procedure that does not exclude the possibility of investing in amendments. It allows for amendments. It only shortens the deadlines in half, because we are in such a situation that it would be desirable to react to this shortened procedure, given the acceptance of the start of the new school year and the need to implement, not only the adoption of this law, but also the need to implement, the adoption of sublegal acts necessary in the process of implementing this law in order for the complete system to be operational with the beginning of September o.g. all over BiH. The law came to Parliament 21 last month. It's already been 20 days since the law is in the process and believe me, the amendments have already begun. Several amendments to one MP have already been received here in Parliament, it did not exclude first and others from investing 38 amendments. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, meanwhile, has established a constitutional and legal basis, and the College has tasked the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the competent commission to comply with this law. However you try to make some work plan when it comes to the issue of this law, given that the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly are actually homes that only when they both pass the law we have the law. We estimate, therefore, on the basis of all of this, and bearing in mind and in view of the obligations that MPs have, however, there will be some small breakthrough and this short term. Rock, normal time is 30 days from today. Short term is half of it, that's 15 days. That would be the 28th, then, if we pleaded here at the House in our first law reading. We won't be able to plead 28th, but we'll be able to plead in the week from June 2nd to June 6, most likely June 5th. Therefore, we have practically devalued the matter of procedure, but it would be very ugly to vote against the Council of Ministers' demands on the procedure today. Essentially, we have what we want, because the law must be discussed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by the middle of the 6th month, therefore, discussed both in the first and second readings. So I ask you, therefore, to vote in favour of the procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers. With regard to Mr Ivo Mire Jović's proposal for permanent consultations in Parliament, I have no objection to anyone consulting on any matter, including this law, but if we want an institutional consultation, then that means certain rules. First, the only body, within the framework of this Parliament, that can pass the session of this House, the issues raised by this law is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is the committee responsible, and that is according to the decision of the College of Constitutional and Legal Committee, that is one thing. Secondly, this is the Council of Ministers' proposal. When the Constitutional and Legal Committee adopts it, it's her proposal and she's heading towards this home. No new proposals can be made by anyone, but that is why the Constitutional and Legal Commission can also invite club presidents to its session, as suggested by Mr Ivo Miro Jović, to the OSCE Mission to BiH and should be. The Council of Ministers should certainly be and that at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, of course, the decision is taken by the Constitutional and Legal Commission to develop the issue of amendments regarding this text that we have here and I can therefore propose this conclusion, which is framed in the first instance of the procedure and which is institutionally set up and I can put it to the vote. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Raguž, completes the conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8273	In addition to what Mr. Džaferović suggested and what I support, therefore, this approach, because of the way this law was resolved, and we know that international experts, associations, etc. were working. In addition to this part, I think it is necessary to enable the clubs represented in this Parliament to have constant communication with the Council of Ministers, with the OSCE misija and before the Constitutional Commission session, so that the Constitutional Commission session is prepared as fully as possible, because, indeed, there are a lot of amendments and if we want to verify these deadlines that we will probably today, then it would be good to do and justify, therefore, the role of the OSCE Mission, the parties and the clubs and to verify that at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in terms of the proposal. Thank you. 39 So, this proposal of mine, Mr. Raguž, does not exclude at all what you suggested. On the contrary, he makes it possible. I'm just trying to vote on something, there's no need for this house to vote on whether the clubs will get in touch with the Council of Ministers and the OSCE misija, because that's what they can do. I say they can work, but if you want to, therefore, with this conclusion that we call on clubs to communicate with both the Council of Ministers and, as it is called, the OSCE Mission in BiH, and everything that happens on the bodies of this Parliament, and that is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and that is this home in the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind and that part that you suggested as a supplement in this way. We're moving on to a statement on the procedure. I'm asking you, who is it that we're going to have this law in accordance with Article 104? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you. We're moving on to a statement by entity. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Of the 36 MPs, 29 voted in favour. There were no MPs. There were seven abstentions. So there is general parliamentary support under Article 104. The Federation of BiH voted 20th. The RS voted 9. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the Law, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're moving to a plea as suggested by this conclusion as I am. Now you can get the word. Here you go. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8274	I apologize, I thought there was no need for an entity statement, so I hurried by calling. Namely, I wanted to know before we enter this conclusion, I suggest that Mr. Špirić and Mr. Križanović are respected, for one simple reason, because I know that here, for example. Me and Mr. Špirić, I don't know if there are any other activities in that week that you mentioned since 2. - 6th, therefore, to respect Mr. Križanović's proposal to make it 10. I looked at it on Tuesday, and usually we have a Tuesday session and that Mr. Špirić's proposal to be a thematic session is respected. So, with one single item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8275	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. I can let you know right away, please make your point. We've finished voting on the procedure. It'll be a thematic session. We already agreed to the College to let you know. It will only be dedicated to this issue, with me unable to tell you whether it will be 10th, or whether it will be in the period from 2nd, it should be on the calendar from 2nd to 6th, and Mr. Zorić will make sure that Mr. Špirić is 40th in that session. I know that you are then in Strasbourg and that you are in that delegation and that will be, most likely 5 or 6 because we must leave 10 days for a second reading. In mid-June of the month is the final deadline. That's the whole problem, and this is timing. So, first reading session on June 2nd to June 6, most likely 5th, you'll get a call, depending on when we'll be able to have an iconic statement if we don't finish it by then. It's also possible to connect the reading to whether or not, but if we don't finish then, mid-June of the month. Until then, Parliament must finish its work. Yes, the procedure has been shortened. You can connect both readings, but the House decides that, sir. Jozo, what don't you get? We're voting on the conclusion I suggested. Please, is the conclusion I suggested clear? If it's not clear, can I say it again? Who's to conclude? Thank you. Who's against the conclusion? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention. I find that with one abstention we have accepted this conclusion. Please, a nice, shortened procedure means a half-term reduction. The deadline for first reading, watch out, 30 days from today is in regular procedure plus 10 days for the session first reading, then plus 10 days or 15 days for second reading. If we were to go with a regular procedure, we wouldn't be able to end the procedure under this law until July. The deadlines are added to... I have to explain this because last time there was a vote in one session, there was a lack of clarity, an unnecessarily vagueness. The shortened procedure is 15 days from today, plus time for the session to be scheduled. We'll take some time to schedule a session, extend this 15 to 17 days, as far as I see or 18 and have in this week when objectively possible session of the House. I'm taking a break. Please, and there will be a plenary session of this house where only this agenda will be held. Nothing else will be the point of the agenda. That, therefore, Mr Špirić has already suggested several times. Mićemo'll make a decision on that at the College. We'll continue at 14 o'clock. ... MPs one group in the last week of May, it is the entire Commission for Foreign Policy already travels to Ljubljana and Zagreb, and then from 10 June the president of clubs will be at a seminar in Dublin, so that the session of the House of Representatives will be held with only one item of the agenda, and this is this law, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education on 5 or 6 June. [[PAUZA]] So you'll be informed about it and you'll get calls, of course, so you'll only have it as information. We can start working now. As far as procedure itself is concerned, it's a question that I tried to explain before the break. Therefore, a shortened procedure, under Article 104, is called an emergency, but under Article 104, there are two types of emergency procedures under Article 104 and Article 105. This emergency under Article 104 that we adopted is, in fact, a shortened procedure, because the difference between it and the regular procedure is just that the deadlines are in half. So the deadlines cancel out by half. Everything else stays the same. So the first reading and the second reading remains, all of which, therefore, remains the same. Of course, when I said it was mid-June as a second reading, then, first, I took care of that fact and those facts. To end, in mid-June, a complete procedure, a complete procedure. But let the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission know that we are planning a session in June 5th or 6th. We, in practice, fit into a shortened procedure for 15 days plus that session schedule, so it'll be all in a day or two, so we've satisfied that 41 knows the Constitutional and Legal Commission can determine the position of our plan, and here's that the public knows about it. We're moving on now. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. The proposal for a general law on cooperatives – the second reading of the proposal for this law was adopted at the 12th session in the first reading. Now the law is in the second reading. As you've seen, there are no amendments to the bill. There were no amendments at the commission stage either. The competent commission adopted the law in the proposed text. I open rapprochement by law in a second reading. But since there are no amendments, I don't expect a hearing, because there are no amendments. There's Mr. Nenad Mišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8276	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to a law that bears the name of the General Law on Cooperatives, regardless of any amendments and which may be too late for anything to change here, I must say the following. If the law were to call legal transfer of property into private hands, I would vote for this law. Or the legal transfer of state assets to individual groups, groups, etc. I'd vote the same way. Since it does not bear that name, I cannot vote for this law, and what I said, I support the following allegations. First, Article 10, which says: The Cooperative can establish at least five natural persons and legal persons, etc. They are groups and individuals, and then Article 94 legalizes it in the next way it says in Article 94. The property currently used by the cooperative by this law becomes the property of the cooperative, i.e. it becomes the property of these particular groups and groups, and in order to ultimately become private, it was regulated by a member of the 50th in which it is said. Article 50(3) Cooperative assets – equipment and facilities and the like, when not used for economic reasons, can be sold or issued, etc. And that's where the story ends. Please, gentlemen, by voting this law, the million figures of state property that already work like this, I'm saying that for the RS, I don't think it's better in the Federation, they're all already issued or semi-selled, and with these three members they'll also be legalized. I, as a MP, cannot vote for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8277	Thank you very much, Mr. Mišić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Filip Andrić, Mr. Gligorić afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8278	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a suggestion. I know it's hard to find for this possibility in the Rules of Procedure, but I think that, indeed, the remarks made by Mr. Mišić, here, are absolutely standing. The law does not address the issue of cooperative property at the moment when a new cooperative is created. So let's not say that, simply when taking the loan, new cooperatives can take the loan, mortgage the assets they got, which they didn't deserve, they don't repay the loan, and that property goes to whoever gave the loan. I'm talking about the fate of an asset that the new associates didn't deserve. 42 The legislator evidently managed some other principles and did not say that he deliberately revered this fact. I think this fact is more due to insufficient serious work on the law and not respecting all the elements of this law. That's why I'd like to suggest, that this law, indeed, would have the opportunity to apply, because as it is, I'm afraid there will be a lot of problems in applying, to extend the raps on this law. So let's once again look at all aspects of this law before we adopt it or reject it. I must say that we haven't made any amendments to this law, simply, considering first that there is no basis for it to be passed. It means there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Come on, all right, here's the question that most of us have passed this law and that it comes to the stage in which it came. I therefore once again suggest for the application of this law, in general, the possibility of applying this law, as well as removing the very negative consequences that this law may have, to allow the debate to be postponed, i.e. the adoption of the law to delay until the next session, enables, possibly, the giving of amendments, or another session of the commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8279	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Filip Andrić. After that Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, then Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8280	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, from my interventions, during the debate on the agenda, it was obvious that this law cannot be adopted in such a way as to make significant remarks. I did not go to the amandmanski earlier, believing that that conclusion was adopted with this law and expecting the Council of Ministers to fix this law, so I did not intervene earlier in the amendment. I fully agree that my predecessors have said that in this way, an illegal kidnapping of someone's property is actually being carried out. I will only support this with one example from my hometown of Tomislavgrad, where, as a rule, cooperatives were made to confiscate the property of alleged state enemies and assigned to cooperatives. So I shall set an example and a monastery of nuns in Tomislavgrad, which is '46. In the name of the people for the purposes of the agricultural cooperative. I don't think this law in any way can treat this matter and it should be removed from the agenda, or it can't pass, especially before the restitution law. I also consider it a constitutional basis. If we're going to legalize such an abduction, then I can't agree with that, and I believe even the vast majority of the MPs who, of course, notice that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8281	I thank Mr. Andrić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare, then Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8282	Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been done by cooperatives alone for a long time. At the same time, many of the claims made here do not stand. The same thing when it comes from denationalisation to nationalization... and the question of real owners now and the question of cooperative property can be opened as a question, but at this point it is absolutely not standing. 43 Secondly, neither individuals nor groups stand nor what is now also said by the SDS. We have one other process. We have what privatisation is and what we said was a robbery and there are a lot of things to be audited. You have something on the other side that's been done there and what's in the hands of those who own it and who do it, little shareholders, who want to join in and in such a way that they become a factor and, right now, there are comments from those who can't exactly fit in, because somehow that's how it happened for people to self-organize and come into the situation that you don't control through privatisation every segment. And, when it comes to cooperatives, you SDS gentlemen have absolutely no control over it, and that's why you've raised your voice and that's why it needs to be supported, because it's on the right track, because they agreed on it themselves, and I think it should be supported at BiH level. It's just cooperative, read it the way it's arranged and how it's going to, you'll see that we all need that kind of circle and that kind of help. The other thing is, we don't have anything, we talked a little bit yesterday to the state bank, so it's all privatized, etc. And other smart countries have a state bank, so they have a developmental one, so they have cooperatives, so they have the development of agriculture and others, and we don't have it. We want to destroy everything, and all, again, because of some story about how someone wants to do it there, and what the legal government has done is wrong. Let him who does this be organized, according to the law that we will bring, and you will see there will be no abuse, and therefore I always give priority to those who organize themselves and who know that they preserve what someone wants to destroy. They've saved, I can give you countless examples, from Agrosemberia, where no meter has been taken from each other, but it's all bought by its own means. Bought, trafficked directly by contracts, and they don't have anything you were talking about, but someone wants to ruin it, get in there, and, of course, they intend to make it into a coke store or who knows what else, and people want to produce agricultural products. I'm asking you to understand that once at last. There can be absolutely no control over everything in society, the way political parties think, which in its essence and philosophy are always the ropes of a society that is wider. Let this society sort something out a little bit, and as promoters, when we get here through the Council of Ministers, we accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8283	Thank you. We have a request for two interventions. So, I apologize to the most beloved speakers. Mr. Novaković first answered for the intervention and then Mr. Mišić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8284	It is clear to me that Mr. Tihomir Gligorić is loaded with SDS. This constant mention of the SDS when there is a need and when there is no need, when it refers to something to the SDS and when it does not apply, it is quite clear. I probably would've done the same if I'd worked in his place. What I can't figure out is that the MP doesn't read the law when he comes out to discuss it or he hasn't read it well enough so he hasn't seen what it says, so he's talking about something that's not even in the law. He's talking about it affirmatively. Well, I'm Mr. Gligorić, too, because you say it affirmatively, but there's no law, and that's why I think we should discuss it in law, so when it's in law, then we'll probably vote together, but we both have to read it. I believe it's there. This isn't the SDS' position. This is the attitude of the RS farmer's association that does not control the SDS and whose representative has nothing to do with the SDS, even against the SDS. Don't do what a man says, change a man and then discuss it like that. Well, I guess you do or you don't. So don't tell that story, please. Don't make 44 policies about what has nothing to do with politics. I don't know who the new associates will be. You don't have them either. Nor can you know at this point, that they will know whose options they will represent politically and who will want them to usurp or not usurp. But, Mr. Gligorić, I will never stand behind the conversion of one asset to private property. You don't need to stop either, given the position you have and the job you're doing and the job you have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8285	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Nenad Mišić. Here you go, Nenade.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8286	I'll be brief. First, Mr Gligorić says what SDS says. He said Nenad Mišić, and he's a drop of water in the SDS, so it's not SDS. The other thing is, Mr. Gligorić is a lawyer. I'm a forest man. But, Mr. Gligorić, I've been dealing with this problem in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I know exactly what association is in the field. What you're saying is that it's affirmative, this is just legalizing the already existing state that's out there. People have betrayed the premises. People have betrayed objects. People have betrayed the country, it's all set up. Right, the law was written according to what happened. The Ministry of Agriculture has been dealing with this problem for a long time. I speak for the RS and we can't allow it, I won't mention the names of cooperatives and the real situation, but this law will legalize it. I really can't be that. And, please nice, I'm not speaking out of my mind but that's the condition. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8287	I thank Mr. Mišić. Let's get on with the discussions. I apologize, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Špirić has his word and then it's you. You get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8288	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be good for us to stick to the agenda, in the sense that we bring it to an end. The first reading of the law was and he got an almost unique attitude, was accepted in the first reading. I'm surprised the MPs are returning the law to first reading today when they were due to submit amendments. So, I'm surprised. I must tell you that this law was passed by the Council of Peoples and that those who did not have a chance to read, or they did not want to read, that I told them that I was one of the legislators of this law at the request of the cooperatives. I'm even more surprised if someone says we don't even know who the future associates are, but we already know they're gonna be thieves. So, please, as all of us MPs have contacts with different associations, I must tell you that I have received countless calls from the people who need this law. It's probably not ideal, it's probably not the best, but I would appreciate the fellow's efforts to make it through the amendments to specifically improve, through any member, believe that I wouldn't have any pressure, but in the second reading of the law as if in the first reading it was, the intention of dealing with gender debates that don't concern a single member of the law, and I'm asking you, I'm going to make a contribution by voting for this law, as I'm going to support every MP in the next phase that offers changes and supplements, which are on the trail of creating a better law, but we also need to understand the cooperatives who want to go out of BiH, I can't get out, because there's no state address that they're coming out. Why punish those who want to work in the interest of both states and 45 of their personal interests. Come on, there's no problem, who thinks he can make a better law to start an initiative to amend and supplement the law. But I'm asking you because the amendment phase, so we don't return the law to the discussion of principles or principles. Thank you very much and I will make a contribution and my party club to which I belong will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8289	Mrs. Sopta, you'll have to wait for more. We've got two interventions again. Mr. Novaković first answered, and then Mr. Gligorić answered. Mr. Novaković, it's your turn. Replica. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8290	Dear colleagues, I said right away, which is why we didn't apply for the amendment. So we think that the first constitutional basis is controversial. But, come on, the law went the way it went. I even said I knew, since we don't have amendments that this law can't go down, so I suggested a different variant to make it possible, but I didn't come out for it. It is an netačan assumption that without this, our farmers, without this law, cannot export products. Please don't. Our farmers cannot, without some other laws, export which we have adopted, which we have adopted, such as the Veterinary Act and some other laws, which we have allowed our farmers to export products. It is absolutely irrelevant whether they are cooperative or not to export products. Don't let me manipulate the public. There's no need. Well, it's not disputed that the SNSD Club will vote for this bill. It doesn't even have to be controversial. Which is why now you're just going to say something that's not true. It's enough that the club will vote, because it thinks it's who it is, it's good. It's nothing, there's no need to manipulate things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8291	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić replica, and already Mr. Špirić has applied for a reply to the replica or incorrect quote, so we will probably proceed afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8292	First of all, Mr. Novaković, I said my position as an MP and I told the generals about the SDS, and you turned out, you seemed to be living up to the political meeting of your party and you started giving a political lecture and giving me a political lesson. That's what you can do in your party. I'm a MP here, just like you. And if I say that the SDS and the SDS rule in the RS and if the issue of privatisation in the RS to the extreme borders has been problematic, that such sharp criticisms when they are in the issue of privatisation, you are carrying part of the responsibility for the implementation of that privatisation, because you exercise power, then I am talking about principles. And as a national MP, I do not allow you and I want you to prevent you from privatising at BiH level in the way it was done in the RS and I think I am quite clear here. I read the law very well. At the same time, I have consulted with people, because I am addressed by individual citizens and associations and others, and I write letters and to the Council of Ministers and others, and in such a way as to assist as a National MP. Therefore, you are forever replacing the thesis. First you say it's not SDS, you need to be watched like this. At your place, you can't get caught by anybody's tail or by your head. Don't ever get 46 in a situation where you simply don't say your point of view about clear things, and I respect it. You said you wouldn't support the law, and I just said why you wouldn't support it. You have no interest, you have no control, because you yourself have told the association that you have no control. If you said you didn't have control and out of it, then the thought of you wanting, absolutely control in society. So that's what you said to Mr. Novaković yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8293	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Špirić. I'm just saying don't, I'll give the word isn't the problem. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8294	I wanted, therefore, to just put the thing back where it belongs to us to dissipate within the point of the agenda of the law in the second reading. It is true that the SNSD Club will support this law. Well, if we hadn't backed the laws, by now at the state level these five months, we'd probably have passed a few laws. I'm asking you to look it in the eye. I have no pressure to have MPs and individual parties vote against the law, but please let us stick to the essence. I have an amendment to that and that one, and MPs will be told how they see the law when there's a vote. I don't think it's on the trail of what we've been doing, here's to this part of the agenda. So, I'm proud to say, yes, we want to vote, we're going to support this law, as others can say, we're not going to support this law, because there are weaknesses about their view, but this is an amendment phase. I don't see any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8295	Is it both? Mr. Jovanović answered first and then Mr. Novaković. That's now, what's this called now? This is now the answer, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8296	I just want to do it for the public. The parliament's majority in the RS in the previous meeting consisted, among other things, of the Socialist Party of RS, which had two ministers. So, during this period, when, and if, according to Mr Gligorić's story, the privatisation was largely privatized, they were involved, too, because they were in that power. So in this part, it means in this part, when they're not in power, they're probably following a story like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8297	Okay. Thank you. Please, wait a minute. Let's calm this down. This isn't gonna get us anywhere. We can play lines by nightfall, and we can't stick to the agenda. He took us where he shouldn't lead us. So I'm looking for rs first on the agenda and I'm not going to mention another amendment, and this is an amendment phase and a practical statement about the law and I'm asking you to refrain from further comments. Mr. Novaković, can you respect this one of mine, so you can't respect this request of mine. Then I must give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. Very short. But, 47
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8298	Dear Chairman, first of all, I think that, I've made a proposal and I think you can find a literal possibility if you're willing. So, if the College could look at some new elements, I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure, make it possible, so, of course, I know that these aren't God-knows-what elements, but I'm saying if there's a will it can be. Since, apparently, the will is gone, I only want to say two more sentences. Of course, it's about incorrect allegations. First, the SDS is completely clear on every law here and attitude tells its position. That's perfectly clear and that's what we said here. So we didn't wrap anything up. Of course, that attitude is ours, as is the position of each other party's position and she votes towards that attitude, and I understand Mr Gligorić's earlier attitude when he said he had an attitude and that he would be abstention. It's a strange little attitude to be held back, but that's the attitude. Which is the right for a man to be held back. Please, I have a very clear view of this law and not just of this law, but of every other law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8299	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Gligorić, you have 30 seconds. I'm asking you now, please, it really doesn't make any more sense, without coming 30 seconds, so you can go over to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8300	First of all, Mr. Novaković, I said that I would vote and support this law, not that I would be restrained. And as for the past, I can say that I have made a certain contribution along with you and passed a few laws where the SDS, as a reformer, has not done so. So I think we're clear here. I have my position, my opinion, my freedom of mind, and if something is civilized, I will support it, no matter what the political boss tells me. Next, as far as I'm concerned, I'm on time and now and persistently saying that the way that privatisation is conducted for individuals means in certain stages that it's a robbery and you can't tell me, you can talk about the Socialist Party's party that took part in the government, but again I'm talking about individual political and human freedom, when I said it was a robbery and in the review you'll see when it happens, or in the fight against money laundering, corruption and organised crime, that the Socialists are gone. They don't have factories, and that's how we're gonna get to some others again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8301	Mr. Gligorić, time has passed several times. Please, Mrs. Ruža Sopta has a word. Mr. Jusufović, there are democracies out of this room, but this is a session now, let's move on, that's enough. Mrs. Sopta, here you are, your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8302	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I apologize to begin with that I have no amendments, but in truth I would ask and beg for understanding that we find space for this law not to go the way it is, not to adopt it as it is for one single reason. I don't have any amendments. I'm due to the busyness of the session itself, but also because of the real belief that the Constitutional Commission will not pass the light for this law. This law, three things I'll just point out. The law also states that cooperatives are formed by state property. But later on, there's no state left in power. In fact, we're talking about the property of a cooperative. The second thing, I worked in privatisation, and cooperatives often appeared to me that they too were privatized under the Company Privatisation Act. I have written, and I have been told that cooperatives will be privatized under special law. And this would be a privatization to a small door. Third, there's another law on restitution here. The article 59 provides that cooperatives will be returned to the property that has been taken from them, which is in mine, in the midst of where I come from, there are not many cooperatives. There are other cooperative homes, which have been allocated to commercial companies, which are already in the privatisation process, which have some legal basis for them to be the subject of privatisation. So here comes a restitution of the return of property to former owners, it's for cooperatives. So I don't think that, what's going to happen is who's going to rob, but that once again this law we get space so that we can change it once this time because I have in my hand, too, a law on cooperatives from the Federation level, which is very specific, nice, summed up and in the truth, I think there might be a lot in this law next to these two, and I think, frankly, it would be a shame if I went like this and I was in that body that adopted it, too, to say there's a lot, a lot of disadvantages. I'd like to ask, if it's possible to get more space to apply the amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8303	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Who else wants to talk about the law? I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, therefore, we are, please, just a little bit of attention, a little bit of business in the next situation. I have been a little consulted in the College on these proposals to delay the statement of the law itself, and the College does not have the consent to postpone. That's what I'm notifying you. So I, as chairman of the House, have remained to continue the procedure of the Rules of Procedure to move on to a plea and I am now asking you who is to adopt this law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? Who's against the law? Okay, just don't be amongst yourselves, please. It's a vote. Did you count it? Yes, it is. Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you, too. Give me the results to see if I can move on. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Law? The Federation, who's in favor of the law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Republika Srpska who's in favor of the law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Give me the results. 49 There are 36 MPs in the room. 36 voted, 24 voted for the law, 8 voted against the law, 4 were abstentions. So the law received general parliamentary support. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted in favour of the Law 17th, Republika Srpska voted in favour of the Law 7. So I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the General Law on Cooperatives. We're moving to the 9th point of the Ad agenda. Nine. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Features You have seen from the report you received today that the Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was among the gentlemen: Petar Kunić, Vinko Zorić, Sead Avdić and the House of the Peoples: Halid Genjac, Boško Šiljegović and Anto Spajić submitted a report on the achievement of the agreement on the same text of the Law on Features with these amendments. Right? I'm now putting on a vote report from this committee. Who's to accept this report? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 36 votes for, 34, I apologize, 34 votes in favour of no votes against and without abstentions adopted the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Decouplings of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that this law is adopted in this text with the Commission's report. We're moving to the 10th point of the Ad agenda. Ten. The selection of three members in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on a single (a) Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment and (b) Law on Plant Health These laws have been adopted in different texts in the House of Peoples for which it is necessary to establish a joint commission that would bring the same text of the law into line. At yesterday's session, the extended college agreed on proposals to elect gentlemen from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee on the Consensation of the Labour and Employment Agency: - Sead Avdić, Milorad Živković and Filip Andrić and under c) when it comes to the Law on the Protection of Plants of Gentlemen: - Nadžida Mlačo, Nenad Mišić and Mladen Potočnik. 50 Any new suggestions? We're going to vote one-on-one for both committees. Who's in? You don't mind that we suddenly vote for both committees? You don't. Okay. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Commission, the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Labour and Employment Agency Act, has chosen gentlemen: Sead Avdić, Milorad Živković and Filip Andrić and as regards the Health Protection Act of Plants Mrs. Nadžić Mlačo, and Mr. Nenad Mišić and Mladen Potočnik. That's how we ended the 10th agenda. Moving to the 11th point of the Ad agenda. 11. The consultations on the choice of a judge from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, ladies and gentlemen, as we informed you by letter dated 5 May 2003 from the College of the House of Peoples and the College of the Representatives of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina at a joint session held on 5 May, discussed the issue of the election of Judges of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In line with the national procedures for nominating candidates for elections to the European Court of Human Rights in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, certain consultations were held, after which the Council of Ministers proposed candidates for the European Court of Human Rights. With a letter of 7 May this year, we have submitted to you the proposals for a European Court of Human Rights candidate with the biographical data and accompanying documentation received from the Council of Ministers earlier. In line with these procedures, it is also necessary to carry out certain consultations in the Parliamentary Assembly, which is why this issue is being discussed at the joint session of the Colleges of Both Homes and, as a result, a proposal for a conclusion which should also be adopted by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this way, consultations would be concluded under the procedures laid down by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You've also received a proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate on this issue. Here you go. Who wants to talk? I conclude the debate, if no one answers the word and I propose the conclusion you received in the text, and the conclusion is – The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina supports the proposal to run for a judge from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg: - Dr Zoran Pajić - Ahmed Žilić - Dr Ljiljana Mijović 51 2. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with further defining the procedures for nominating national candidates for membership in European institutions in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion you've received. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Ma'am, I apologize to you, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, for the proposal for a conclusion. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8304	Just a quick addition to the conclusion. I think it will strengthen the proposal that Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions are heading towards the Council of Europe. The choice of candidates for judges from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights has long been in the process. There was a dispute sometimes from some institutions. The Council of Ministers set out this proposal in the previous meeting, and then there were few reactions from the presidency, and return to parliamentary procedure, etc. I just want to underline that it would be very, very good for all state institutions, so the Council of Ministers and Parliament and the Presidency to give instructions to the Council of Europe as a common position a single proposal. I think it would be good for this conclusion to include the Presidency in some way and to propose all institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Second. We were probably all through means of informing witnesses that we were in some way involved in the failure or failure of a procedural nature, and even anti-constitutional action in running for the BiH judge's election for the European Court of Human Rights. I would step up perhaps this conclusion, which he proposed and chaired, that the Council of Ministers urgently determine procedures that do not exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. So we couldn't break something that didn't exist. To determine the procedures for running candidates in the future to elect judges in the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8305	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. I, unfortunately, can put her proposal to a vote after she insists, after we read the proposal. This is not a proposal from the chairman of the House of Representatives, this is a proposal from the Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it will also go to the House of Peoples in this text. And so this is the text that came out as the product of a joint session of the Colleges of both homes. And this text will also go to the House of Peoples. So I can suggest, I can put what came from the College to the vote, and Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal, if she insists on voting on it, we can, in particular, draw a special conclusion that we vote on it. Please. But it's okay, but we're voting now on a proposal for a conclusion that I read. 52 Who is in favour of that conclusion? Okay. Thank you. Who's against this conclusion? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the phase of the consultations with, on the election of a judge from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights, adopted a conclusion proposed by the Joint College of both homes and which reads - 1. The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina supports the proposal to run for Judge from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Dr Zoran Pajić, Mr Ahmed Žilić and Dr Ljiljana Miović and 2. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with defining more precisely in the future, defining the procedure for nominating national candidates for membership in European institutions in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It doesn't say that in me, so I can't talk about it right now. I read how it was written here. May I have your attention, please? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović suggested that, with this conclusion, this House adopt another conclusion, which is that institutions, called on the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make a single proposal, to support all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Second Proposal,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8306	She didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8307	Based on the recommendations made by the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8308	So here's the deal. I can open a debate. So we're done with this job. Please, please. There's here, so we've voted the conclusion, we've done this part of the job. If you're Mrs. Hadžiahmetović insisting, I'll put it to the vote, but watch out. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency is working within its powers and let the Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency do what it thinks it should do. The Council of Ministers consults with the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there are procedures. There are procedures of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which are not fully respected in this case. So I have to say it here at the House, but the College has defined itself, and this home has determined not to complicate the matter, but to later, I would say correct, or convalitate the failure that the Council of Ministers made earlier in the procedure. Because before setting out the list under the procedures of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you have the document here, when the list is to be made, a consultation must be carried out. This is an ex post consultation with Parliament. Please. There was a competition called and everything, so the contest was and there's no dilemma. But you, if you insist, and this conclusion is a measure of everything. 53 So we support this, we will not make it difficult. The House today has come to its attention and this is a consultation, support and request by the Council of Ministers, a request by the Council of Ministers for more precise arrangements. If you insist, I will put your proposal to the vote. We're done with the agenda. I don't know what now. Here you go. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8309	Mr. Chairman, I'm surprised you're giving me your word if you've finished the agenda. And this isn't the first time I've suggested anything, you leave it for good, if I insist. I just want to make one correction to your statement here for this speaker. First there are procedures for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to elect candidates for the election of judges in Strasbourg. Each country can determine its own procedures individually. Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have them. I, too, was so much more precise about the conclusion that Bosnia and Herzegovina established procedures, i.e. rules, procedures for nominating candidates, on the basis of, of course, the rules, that is, the procedures of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I assume that your discussion was only out of misunderstanding, not out of other intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8310	Thank you. Sir, please be nice. Mr. Kunić, of course, unanimously.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8311	Dear Presidency, I don't know if I came here. Namely, what did I see? I've noticed that when you put these names and names together, it's either alphabetical or alphabetic or by title. In a civilized world, that's how it's done. It's not just here. So Zoran Pajić, Ahmed Žilić, Ljiljana Miović, rather than usually appearing in our materials. Some people don't write to others. Please have unisons, a unique approach in this regard. So it's a very, very sensitive question for some people, and I'm asking you to take care of it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8312	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8313	I mean, we got a memo from the assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8314	Just a little bit, please. Mr. selo Bešlagić's discussion. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8315	where the Council of Europe is in fact, Parliamentary Assembly, Recommendation 1429, national procedure for nominating candidates for the European Court of Human Rights. That's where it all stands. Point 6 below c) to state the candidate's names in alphabetical order. So I'm just asking you to fix it so we can be in the structure of these regulations. There's everything here. So I think that objectively we have this procedure and that it is respected when a competition is called, with a note that in this material that we have declared, it's just put in alphabetical order. Either the name or the last name, or the last name, it's still just an alphabetical order to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8316	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. So we got such material from the Council of Ministers and we just copy what we got, and the Council of Ministers, the governments of the states, they determine the lists. It says so in the procedures you have now read, and they must certainly take care of it when they are definitely notifying the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, I am now putting on the vote, I am now putting on the vote, in addition to this conclusion which we adopted and the proposal of Mrs Hadžiahmetović, which has two points to call on both the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to support this list and to adopt under 1st and 2nd, therefore, under 2nd, the same content of the conclusion under 2nd, which we adopted, so as to define, rather than the word 'exactly', that it stands 'exactly defined' or prescribed. Who is Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal for a conclusion? Please, nice. You've heard the proposal to conclude the lady. Did you count the votes? Who's against this conclusion? Thank you very much. Who is abstaining from this conclusion? Give me the results. Please, who is from the Federation for this additional conclusion? Who is from Republika Srpska for this additional conclusion? Thank you very much. There are 34 MPs present. 21 voted in favour, 10 voted against, three MPs were abstentioned. The Federation voted 11 in favour, from Republika Srpska voted 8 in favour. I also find that this second conclusion, in addition to the one we adopted, which is actually an invitation to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency or a recommendation, is a recommendation to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to support this list and by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, as well as this formulation, rather than "accurately prescribing" is adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. It's Ad. 12. The request of the Council of Ministers for Correction of Technical Error in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship We are at the 12th session under Article 105. Rules of Procedure adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 55 The Council of Ministers informed us that a technical error was made when preparing the law. In this regard, we have been asked to correct that error by adding, in Article 23 at the end of the 5th sentence, the text left out, which reads: "Such as these activities seriously endanger the vital interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina". The College of the House decided, however, to place this request by the Council of Ministers on the House's verification since it is not usual for any amendments to the text that have not been discussed in the House to be made in this way. You've got that petition from the Council of Ministers. From the explanation of the text of the Law we adopted, it is that this is indeed a technical error and that this is really omitted, because this is stated in the explanation, but none of us has the authority without this home to include anything further in the text of the Law adopted in the text in which it was adopted. And that's why I'm asking you if you're giving consent to complete that text with this formulation? In addition to the Council of Ministers' warning to take care and not make mistakes like this in the future. I'm asking you, if there's no argument, who's in? So we're reaching a conclusion. Thank you very much. Did you count it? Yes, it is. Who's against it? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you very much. I therefore conclude that we unanimously adopted the conclusion that last time we voted on the Law, we had in mind that in the Law of Article 23, at the end of the 5th position, there was also a text - ''Below the condition that these activities seriously jeopardised the vital interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina', that it was the product of the Council of Ministers' technical error and that the chairman of this House, or the sekretarijat of the dom, could bring this into effect in the publication of the Law in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I, as chairman of that text, sign it. We're going to the 13th item of the agenda, that's Ad. 13. Giving consent to ratification: a) The Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain I am opening the debate. If no one's answering for a hearing, I'll put it on a plea. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously with 33 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions gave its consent to ratify the Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain. (b) I am opening a debate between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India. I'm closing the debate. 56 Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Do you mind? Abstained? I find that the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously with 33 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, has given its consent to ratify the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India. c) Trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine Who is for? Please. Thank you very much. Just a little attention. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that with 34 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, the House of Representatives has given its consent to ratify the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine. d) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments Who is for? If there's no one to discuss, of course. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the 34-vote predstavnički of Representatives for, without the jury's votes, without abstention gave its consent to ratify the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine on unparedness and reciprocal investment protection. e) Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey If there is no discussion who is for? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I agree, please, that the 34-vote House of Representatives has unanimously voted against and without abstentions to ratify the Protocol on the establishment and functioning of cultural centres between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. And under f) I'm opening a debate with Japan. I'm closing the debate. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 57 I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 34 votes in favour, please, without votes against and without abstentions, please spare me a little bit, gave consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Paris Club, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Japan in the text and in the full name, that I do not now repeat, as it was established today at the beginning of the session when we established the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests have exhausted the agenda of the 13th session of the House. I want to inform you once again that we in the College have agreed that the next session of this house, so you will be invited, so this home session with only one item of the agenda – this is the law of the framework law on basic and secondary education and that this session will be the 5th most likely 5th and 6. You'll get a call, but June 5th or 6th this year. This should also be known by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which should be done by then. Please, nice. I would also like to invite you to respond to Hotel Saraj on 19 this month to the Colloquium of the Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the subject of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the path of European integration. The Council of Europe's political committee will hold its session on the next day, so the 20th session in Sarajevo, and in 19th is dedicated to the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And before I close the session, I'll just give a brief word to the vice-president, Mr. Raguž, who also has one piece of information to tell you. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8317	I'm just inviting members of the Foreign Affairs Commission to room 215 if I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-13-0.u8318	Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the 13th session of the House of Representatives has ended its work in 15 hours and 30 minutes on 13 May. Thank you very much.
