ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7248	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 8th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you all together. I note that at today's session, or that today's session is attended by representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the European Union, the Observation Mission, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of other international organisations in BiH, I also welcome them, as well as representatives of the media. I agree that today's session is attended by a total of 39 MPs, so we have quorum and conditions for full-time work and decision-making. From today's session are justifiably the absent Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mr Milorad Živković, who are in the delegation of this house at one session, related to the Stabilit Pact, which is held today and tomorrow in Zagareb, and that Mr Nijaz Duraković is not present. We have no reason to justify his absence. The other MPs are present for the session, as well as Mr Vinko Zorić, who justified his absence. Mr Zorić is currently ill and these are reasons why he is not present at today's session. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as you know at last session of this house, Mr Čolak Bariša, who was elected deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Security at the BiH Council, has ceased his term. From the Election Commission of BiH, we have been informed that the commission has awarded the mandate of MPs after Mr Bariša Čolak to Mrs Ruža Sopta, as the next qualified candidate on the HDZ Coalition list – Demokršćanin. I propose that, before discussing the draft agenda, Mrs Sopta give a solemn statement, so that she can fully carry out her parliamentary duties. I call upon Mrs. Sopta to come here and the rest of you to stand up so that the honourable representative can make a solemn statement. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7249	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7250	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7251	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7252	Full implementation of the General Criminal Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7253	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7254	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7255	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7256	Mrs Sopta, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and on my personal behalf, I congratulate you on this very solemn statement and I wish you a great deal of success in your work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7257	Thank you very much. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7258	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a draft agenda in the invitation for today's session. Last night, a session was held both the College of this House and the College in an extended composition. As you could see today, your proposal for an updated agenda is divided into benches. We had an addition of the agenda to certain points that we considered mandatory to include. I say, you have received an updated agenda proposal, and the additions refer to point 4 and point 5. This is a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration under Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the Representative's Department. At the earlier call you received for today's session, it was indicated that if the Council of Ministers delivers it to the parliamentary procedure that it will be held at today's House session. It is, in fact, the realization of what is already written in the invitation. Meanwhile, from the time of the signing of the call for today's session, until today, we have been asked by MP Muhamed Moranjkić to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Election Law, under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and that is also a mandatory item of the agenda, and by that principle, it is also on the agenda of today's session. It's a newspaper compared to that text you received earlier and, we have a newspaper under paragraphs 18 and 19. They are, in fact, related to the internal arrangement of relations in the House itself, taking into account the 3 presidencies of individual MPs, the need to fill their positions with new MPs, the need to set the end of the term of office for individual MPs, so that points 18 and 19 are the result. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7259	Respected Presidency, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected journalists, respected guests, Party for BiH MPs' club suggests that the item of today's 4th agenda, therefore, the Law on Ministrys and other BiH administration bodies should not be considered under Article 105, but by article 104, for the following reasons. We appreciate that this law, thus proposed, strengthens the inconsistencies of the overall legal system of the BiH state and, more importantly, derogates and abolishes the attainment of the degree of establishment of BiH's minimum institutions, necessary for the functioning of the state, necessary for the implementation of reforms necessary for the inclusion of the world, European and world network of institutions in the area not to list. Whatever area I'd like to mention, you'll find it here. So, health care, education, work, employment, geology, meteorology, medicines, etc. So in one word these are the basic reasons. Here, I will take the opportunity not to take a lot of time, there are some other things like, let's say, a concept for us, an incomprehensible approach, that in the framework of one ministry, regardless of the fact that a service, such as the State Border Service, which employs two thousand people, has been established and governed by the law of res-specialis, and this law is inconsistencies with that law. Also, within the framework of the ministry, it insists as an independent administrative organisation of the Information and Protection Agency, which was also established by BiH law as an independent primary organisation, was found within a single ministry. What does that mean? Therefore, the structure involved in data collection etc. Important for BiH's security, not to tell intelligence and one structure that is somehow armed. The democratic practice in the world does not know the composition of these two components. I don't know that there is somewhere within the interior departments of intelligence in the democratic world. So, these are just some of the reasons, and the key reason for the BiH Party to come to terms with our political goals and our struggle to establish the minimum of BiH institutions cannot support this way of passing laws, respecting the need and understanding the importance of the government's labour ministries and reforms, etc. We're simply looking for an opportunity to have a discussion and face facts and arguments about those things that I'm talking about. Thank you very much. So we suggest that instead of a member of the 105th debate, the procedure is conducted under Article 104. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7260	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7261	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would like to make it clear at first that the Council of Ministers did not opt for procedure 105 by its will and desire to bring MPs before the final act by the authority of the adopted Bill on the Council of Ministers. It is certain that the Council of Ministers in its work wants to do everything that BiH needs to do together with the MPs of this and the second high home of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Representative Assembly, but not according to the system, take and leave. I want to say that the adoption of the Council of Ministers' law has caused the avalanche to dissent from all other legal regulations that treat the work and functioning of the state administration. We had to define ourselves in our work for the next procedure. We have a declared Council of Ministers Act, which, you know, has given certain, extended powers, expanded the number of ministries, etc. After him comes the law on the ministries that determines, therefore, what will the Council of Ministers have in power and we consider in this, this text that it actually defines the Council of Ministers as the Government of BiH, but we allow someone, in principle, to observe it in some other way. So, the adoption of the law on the BiH administration's ministries and bodies only then opens the process, that all these laws that have been passed, which are regulated by individual services, individual institutions, etc. Law on BiH administration, Law on State Service, etc. they must agree and comply with the Council of Ministers' legislation and the Ministry's law. So why did this material come in, a request for inclusion in the agenda per article 105? Because I, before we came to the position of the Council of Ministers to discuss this law, had a meeting with the kolegij of Ministers and the College of the Assembly, if we in the Council of Ministers, which includes the unnecessary agreement of deputies under this Council of Ministers law, there is no need for the deputies not to vote, so that one full consensus of all those appointed to the Council of Ministers, if we have him, then the College proposed that, because of the urgency and inability to assume their constitutional powers, even if even the ministries that have functioned so far, had an undefined framework of their activities. It means that for these reasons, we are going through an emergency procedure to reduce the debate and reduce the time until this law is passed. So, please don't realize that the Council of Ministers views Parliament as a body that does not need to actively participate in the adoption of all laws, the opposite is quite the opposite. And what Mr. Belkić was talking about, I don't want to talk about these details right now. We thought, however, that it was important to finally establish a law in BiH on the ministries and bodies of the administration and to be a start to regulate all those so far in these seven years of problems and on institutions, which were formed before the adoption of the Constitution of BiH, the current Constitution of BiH and all other problems, where, let's say, most of the political reasons and reasons for the interpretation of the Constitution and the laws of various sides, led to the Council of Ministers in past meetings not being able to respond to their purpose and 5 we wanted to avoid that trap, because surely, without the law on the ministries this council of ministers cannot take over the other bodies of the council of ministers, too, this council of ministers cannot take responsibility for the conduct of the process as I have spoken in their own exhibition and as I believe, and all MPs of the BiH Parliamentary House of Parliament expect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7262	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We have two business, two requirements for business interventions, as I understand it, but we also have reported discussions on the agenda. The advantage is these businesses. Request for business interventions. The first request for business intervention was submitted by Mrs Palavrić, after which Mr Avdić, and the discussions were reported in order: Mr Križanović Jozo, Mr Špirić Nikola, that is what I have recorded.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7263	Dear colleagues, let me express one business intervention. Namely, a discussion of a respected colleague, Belkić, I think she would have seats when we get to point 4 and we will discuss whether or not we will accept the Council of Ministers' request. In addition, i.e. as an argument to this position of mine, I present the position of Article 1 105, which says that when it makes a proposal for a high degree of urgency law, which is the case here, or a proposal which is not so complex that it can only be adopted or rejected completely. Unfortunately, this other one isn't filled. However, it is not sought cumulatively. The promoter may ask the House to consider it in writing in a single reading. That's what the promoter did according to attitude 2. The request from the previous point shall be submitted directly to the Chairman of the House at his first next session. So today we are not in a position to decide whether or not we are going to crack point 4 as proposed by the Council of Ministers, but we must do so, and only after the debate will we see what result we will get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7264	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. You're giving up your business intervention. Thank you both for helping the College and the chairman. We certainly have in mind these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but here's another thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Mr. Lagumdžija, did you answer for the discussion, did you react while I was picking up these names? You didn't. I wrote down Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Jozo Križanović, and let Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7265	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow representatives, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, I also report on the inclusion of item 4 in the agenda, i.e. the request of the Council of Ministers on the examination of the laws on ministries and other bodies of the administration under Article 105 of our Rules of Procedure. I keep speaking more widely on that agenda point, but I would, however, regardless of this business intervention, which I consider correct, only express two, two attitudes, which is why we would not be in favour of considering this emergency procedure. 6 First of all, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH was brought by a high representative, so it was not discussed in this house. And if, even now, the law is passed, without the influence of the MPs of this house, we consider that in this way, very important things for BiH are marginalised to say and block the influence of the MPs on very important issues for BiH. And if we add that we have a lot of objections to this law, that it's quite vague, to look at it to a significant extent, in that sense, I've taken advantage of the opportunity to just give intervention to this aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7266	I understand. Thank you, Mr. Križanović. It is, in practice, the same proposal, the same attitude as Mr Belkić put forward. Mr. Špirić has his word, and let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7267	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, esteemed representatives of information funds, I will Pokušać not to fall into the trap to not speak, therefore, of the essence of the law until we see what procedure, under which procedure we will decide to do, when it comes to the law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration. What I have always advocated is that since I have been in the BiH Parliament, it has been a protection of Parliament's dignity and every MP's. But today, Mr. Terzić, the president of the BiH government, said they were in the Council of Ministers and had no intention of seeking the procedure of Article 105, but were asked by the College of the House of Representatives. Now I'm asking a question on behalf of who and whose approval. If we, ladies and gentlemen, get what's important under article 105, I think this Parliament is expensive for the citizens of BiH. If our task is only to ratify different agreements this parliament should not, the Office of the High Representative, the OHR and the Council of Ministers should be established and the burden removed from the back of an ordinary man or this will be parliament, which will be able to discuss what fate and essence are for BiH. So it seems to me that the College, or don't be angry, I'm trying to make some comparisons, which are sometimes both comical or funny, but we live in such an ambience. It turns out to me that the Council of Ministers is a baker and we in Parliament are workers in a bakery, so we wait when they bake the muffins to say eat these, until the others are finished. How is it possible that from the Council of Ministers meeting, which has not yet been completed, we get the law in the process? Who has the right to rule from the first part of the session and the session is not completed, the minutes of the session have not been adopted? Is there a deal? Any consensus? Is that a college deal? So please nice, in which state it's possible to work that way. Therefore, procedures and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers have been violated, but almost certainly the work of the Representative Council, not to say that it is a law whose preamble calls for a member of the Constitution that does not stand. It's about the transfer of jurisdiction here, no matter what the law imposes on the High Representative. We have to say that it's a matter of transfer of jurisdiction, but we need to know who made the decision to pass it on, so that we don't have the deception of the public and the citizens forever. I'm not against having jurisdiction transferred, but I'm against doing it this way. The second thing, how is it possible that the proposaler of the Council of Ministers does not know how much it will cost to adopt this law. How much do the new ministries cost, how much will it take to secure funds in the budget, and ask MPs to decide. It's really funny, and I'm not ready, not because the law is ideal, that no point or point should be moved, I am to protect the dignity of both Parliament and MPs, and I am not insinuating that this law is being considered under Article 105 and 7 is impossible, of course, if Parliament decides to consider Article 105th, I will participate in the debate, but it is impossible for us to change that to go by Article 104 because that is not what the Proposer asked. So unless the procedure is adopted under article 105, I just want to draw attention that then this law goes into regular procedure, just so we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7268	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Moranjkić has his word and then we will hold a debate on the agenda, with one of my brief comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7269	(speaks from the site)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7270	We've decided to make it the way it is under the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lagumdžija. If you want us to say what it's like in the Rules of Procedure, then I'll tell you. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have to put this on the agenda, so when we get to that point, then we'll have a debate about what you're talking about both procedure and essence, if we get to the bottom of it. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. I'm sorry, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7271	I will simply and briefly, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, join the remarks of Mr. Špirić and Mr. Belkić, and I believe that, in principle, we should not solve many problems in the benches of this Parliament, especially those that mean life to this country and this people in this way, in principle, take or leave. I'm sorry someone brought in such a situation as to have to. I'm sorry that Mr. Prime Vlada Terzić said he was brought in, and so I understood him, but let him excuse me if I misunderstood him, in one situation unembarkable to accept such a method and a system like this. I am against the fact that this law is simply "take it or leave it" in principle, and it is by Article 105 because it means life away from this country. The law on ministries is a law to spread in the BiH state, to resolve all the burning issues, and that Parliament, in practice, is not taking part in it. All contusions later lead to something that is not even appropriate and that is not a solution. That's why it's my opinion and I'll take part in a direct debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7272	I thank Mr. Moranjkić, and after I suggested that the debate be concluded, three other distinguished MPs came forward, we will give them a natural word. Mr Gligorić first answered, after which Mr Lozančić answered, and then again Mr Avdić answered. Here's the order for the pay phone. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7273	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad I got the word, because I don't need to make one comparison with Dragan Kalinić, so I thank you for your suggestion that it may have been the deputy's suggestion to get the word later, as the chairman said he had finished the dispute. I would like to support the MPs, who have asked for the time to dissipate this in a fair way, because we were given the eve of the session when we came here at the Council of Ministers' election in the evening, practically the Council of Ministers Act, and at the same time, here, we are now also at night, some of us got late, some of us did not say or read the Council of Ministers' Law, something that is defined there and where only one mention of Parliament is really inadmissible. I propose that the Council of Ministers withdraw this proposal, from the hearing that the MPs rightly said, or that we go to the regular procedure and now I would ask the College to respond at the same time, because the chairman also said he would have some comment. It would be good if the College agreed on how to conduct a public TV broadcast, because we have important issues for BiH that we need to deal with. Entities are transferred, sporting events are transmitted, and only BiH citizens have no right to see what Parliament is doing as the highest body of BiH in this country and I think it would be correct to give an answer whether you've thought about whether you've had any discussions on the subject and let the general public follow it because Mr. Chairman Terzić said in his exposé transparency as you like to say it, although he has a nicer word of openness to the public. I would ask, right here on the agenda, to make a full statement about it and us as MPs. Do we, as MPs, hide something from our citizens or do we want to keep our smart things and even bring nonsense to their court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7274	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Novaković asked, I apologize to Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Novaković asked, as far as I see business intervention, he pointed to the Rules of Procedure, so he has the advantage of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7275	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests and members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to repeat once again what is said here as a business intervention and, indeed, I do not see any reason for us to enter into a debate on the law itself, if it is a proposal, and has the right to propose, according to the Rules of Procedure, that this law be considered as Article 105. I don't see the need for some MPs to come out and ask for it to change. That's what we'll discuss when we discuss this law and decide what we're going to do. The fact that some have the need to bring up their own nonsense on the media, let each one decide whether or not they will be out, but I ask you to let us respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7276	Thank you. Mr. Lozančić has a word, and let Mr. Avdić and I hope that's when we're done. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7277	Dear Presidency, Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that, after all, I support representatives who have had business interventions and I think the debate on the agenda can and should only go in the direction of whether the draft agenda is in line with the Rules of Procedure. No debate so far has been in that direction, nor has it been noted that it has been defined, that the agenda is defined contrary to the Rules of Procedure. As it is obvious, despite all of this and many who know the Rules of Procedure about the work of this House well, however, love and want to discuss some issues here and when it is not on the agenda, and for the sake of real information to the public, I think it is correct, here at this point of the agenda, since there is already an open debate on principle issues no longer on the agenda, discuss whether this Parliament has, whether this House has a capacity and, if there is one, then there is one, and if we do not see what it is and when it is not there and we see what it is to do, and then I think that in that sense, there should be only one session of the House, that we do not burden each session, every item of the agenda, whether Parliament has a lifting or not. I must say that I certainly have a personal attitude about it and I am not satisfied with the dignity this parliament has. But I don't think a good part of it is up to us. I don't think it's correct to open a debate about the dignity of the House when we talk about the agenda here when we speak particularly of the laws for which, here we have heard the presentation of the Council of Ministers' Presidents, but for which we all remain here in this Chamber, I'm sure we think there is a need to adopt, or there was a need to have it long ago. The content of the law, which is disputed here, I will not speak at all, because it is the subject when the law is on the agenda. But I must say that we must be principled towards ourselves and others so as to say that the relationship of this home, that the position of this home is that the diet of this home and all the institutions in BiH is in one significant relationship, given the relations that we have made in BiH, so I would say a good part and a particularly well-organised authority in BiH, as well as the specific competences of the international community institutions in BiH. We have appointed a Council of Ministers and expect the council to take responsibility and begin to answer the questions that citizens and peoples of this country expect, but this council of ministers, defacto, cannot work. I'm not going to talk again about the provisions of this law whether they're good or bad, but I'm going to use one sentence and the worst law is better than any law, and I think that this Council of Ministers should give this Council of Ministers a chance to start working, and I think today I need to pass a law on the Council of Ministers on the short procedure, and I think that in the next period when we create assumptions that the Council of Ministers can normally start working, all that we think we need to do and I have observations, I think that some things should be done, then in a regular procedure. Otherwise, we're going to be in a position to talk about dignity here and the High Representative is declaring laws for us. We talked last time about dignity when we talked about a set of laws that define criminal proceedings, today we have these laws and we don't have to have them on the agenda at all today. So we have them, and there we can open up the issue of the dignity of this home, and that's also an important set of laws and many other questions. I say, it would be good to define in one session the relations of this Parliament and with the Presidency and 10 with the Council of Ministers and with the institutions of the international community and with entities and then to discuss afterwards only what is on the agenda of this Parliament. I support that, on behalf of the club, this law goes according to Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7278	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Avdić still has his word, and then I conclude the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7279	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I am also aware of the restrictions of MPs and simply the necessity to discuss when the item of the agenda comes ahead of this high house, the BiH Parliamentary House of BiH. I want to make one of my proposals. Namely, this law has caused an avalanche of controversy, not only in this parliament but also in the general public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law should represent an essential expression of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's political will and the House of Representatives and the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This law must be in line with constitutionality, legality and efficiency, as is the case in the law. However, if you had subjected it to this kind of rhythm, not to discuss the law, objectively, it would have been difficult to withstand a test of efficiency and legality, a law proposed by the Council of Ministers. I also respect and understand the logical political will of the Council of Ministers to simply dynamic economic reforms, political reforms in BiH, and also to give sufficient answers to that document "Work and Justice" by OHR and domestic authorities. So we shouldn't take evil for the Council of Ministers to grant ourselves freedom, and this is how he proposes it under Article 105 of this law. However, the chairman recently said in Circle 99 that the political consensus of the entire BH Parliament in terms of reforms proposed by the Council of Ministers and opposition and positions is necessary, which means, if we are on that background, it would be a good idea to begin to scolding such a system of trust between the BH Parliament and the Council of Ministers. BH Parliament is modelling politics and the Council of Ministers is implementing that policy, which means I suggest that by point 4. The Council of Ministers shall consider and respect these discussions on the agenda, in particular point 4. The law on ministries, so the Council of Ministers of BiH and corrects its position, consults and corrects its position in the sense of proposing to this BH Parliament that the law on ministries be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. It would be a good step, simply towards establishing a full political consensus and trust, and on the other hand it would simply show that the Council of Ministers respects this BH Parliament and simply allows us to come to this law in this way. It would be extremely wrong, it would be really wrong for a law like this, which, in my opinion, cannot meet two criteria, both legality and efficiency, to experience its verification under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which means, once again, I would like to propose with a lot of tolerance that the Council of Ministers consults and, to point 4, is that, considering today's agenda, this proposal is made known. So I suggest you go by Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7280	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Lagumdžija's business question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7281	Dear colleagues, gentlemen of the chairman, fellow Members, I would like to ask the chairman before you conclude the debate to answer the question, so that we may, in order not get into trouble afterwards. The item of the agenda number 4 bears the name, it bears the name of the Council of Ministers for the discussion of the Proposal for a Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration – as referred to in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Therefore, it bears the name of Article 105. We do not dispute, at all, the request of the Council of Ministers and quite naturally, if the Council of Ministers insists on working under Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure, we must discuss this. My question is only about the next fact, so you can make it clear to us so we don't get into trouble later. In Article 105(2), the second sentence states that the House will decide on a request after the debate, which will be about the content of the law itself as a whole, which many of us and clubs have prepared appropriate comments, suggestions and views. Just make it clear to us whether when we adopt the agenda, as you have set it here, if there is a rush when we get to point 4, or if you want to wrap it up now when we set the agenda, because if we do it now, it can, then when we get to point 4, we'll just vote on the "take it or leave it" principle. So, I'm just asking you to clarify when we're having a debate about this law. The Council of Ministers has a legitimate right and we must respect this right to declare whether it will be in accordance with Rule 105 of this Rules of Procedure. But it's just a question. When we make a statement, whether we're dealing with article 105 now when we determine the agenda or when we get to point 4. In relation to this question, we would discuss in a metric way what they say about the law itself with the relevant suggestions, that is my semi-sex question, or call it intervention, if the Rules of Procedure don't know the word business question, just so we know whether the debate is being held now or after the second sentence of Article 105 paragraph 2?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7282	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the agenda? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. The question asked by Mr. Lagumdžija, but the question has already been answered during this session. So he's written in the Rules of Procedure, and then once he's given the answer to that question, here he insists that I repeat the answer to that question twice. Please be nice, in Article 105, Section 2 literally stands. The request from the previous point, therefore, is required to consider the law in a single reading submitted directly to the chairman's home at his first next session. The House will decide on the request after the debate. We are now Mr. Lagumdžija, answering your question, in the session stage when we are discussing the agenda. When we arrive at the agenda point, which is indicated in the agenda you are talking about, then we will apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that I have now read and I answer your question for the second time during this session today. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am concluding a debate on the agenda. The only proposal that could be heard today from all these discussions was that the ministry law should not be discussed under Article 105 but to be discussed in accordance with Article 104. It is the obligation of 12 of the chairmans of this House and of the College and of all of us to, when we receive a request from the Council of Ministers to consider a certain law under Article 105 to put it on the agenda and that is the mandatory point of the agenda and there is no vote on whether or not we are going to put this law on the agenda to consider the procedure under Rule 105 or not, but rather, we have to do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am obliged to give you one explanation before I conclude and declare today's session agenda, which is next. A session of the College of the House was held before the meeting was scheduled and the chairman of the Council of Ministers was invited. It's one practice that we practice because we think it's better to prepare the sessions of this home. The chairman of the Council of Ministers responded to this session, it was discussed that if the Council of Ministers reached a consensus on the security situation, as far as we are concerned, of course all the other issues that are within the scope of this House's work, and it was then said that, if the Council of Ministers reached a consensus on this law, that as far as I am concerned, too, this is my discussion now, the law, but again, it is not the decision of the Council of Ministers, it is not the decision of the College, it can go according to Article 105, but I repeat, it is the decision of the Council of Ministers at the end and I have said so, and so have the other members of the College and what I said today when it was voted on it, and I know what I am worth in this Parliament, I am worth 1/42 my vote, and I have said what I am going to do here today. It is up to you ladies and gentlemen to say what you think about it and you have said, but ultimately, the proposal to consider the Law under Article 105 is the Council of Ministers' proposal. That's it. So that was my comment on what I announced as a comment. I declare the agenda of today’s session to be adopted, and it reads: 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 5.6 and 8th sessions of the House, 2nd. Confirmation of the appointment of Justice Minister and Deputy Minister of Justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration under Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, 5. MP Muhamed Moranjkić's request to discuss draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, 6. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendments I- VI of MP Sead Avdić to the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH (second reading), 7. Proposal for a Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the quality control of certain products on import and export (first reading), 9. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity (DERK), 10. Report on the work of the Commission to consider the status of naturalised persons in the period 6.4.992 until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 11. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's duties on 30.6.2002, 12. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Final Report on the State of Sustainable Development for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, 1313. Report by the Commission of Investigation on a parliamentary investigation carried out in connection with the discovery of illegal weapons stored in Mostar, 14. A report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to a number of criminal and correctional institutions, 15. Appointment of members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the only text of the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a temporary committee for the preparation of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, 17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina (financing of reconstruction of the water supply system for the municipality of Prnjavor), (b) Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina (financing of reconstruction of the water supply system for the municipality of Olovo), (c) Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina (financing of the reconstruction of the water supply system for the municipality of Zepće), (d) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and protection of investments, (e) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia amending the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. 18. With members of the House committee instead of Mr Bariša Čolak and 19. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term to Mr Niki Lozančić This is the agenda of today's session. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 5.6 and 8th session of the House of Records you received. I'm opening a discussion on the record. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, we move to a plea. I'm closing the debate. I ask you who it is to adopt the minutes of the 5th session? Thank you very much. Against? Abstained? I understand that the minutes of the 5th session were unanimously adopted. We're moving on to a record statement from the sixth session. Who's to adopt the record? Thank you very much. Against? There's no one here. Abstained? There's no one here. I also find that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 6th session. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of this house. Who's to adopt the record? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I also find that we have adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the House. 14 We move to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad. 2. Confirming the appointment of the Minister of Justice and Deputy Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament you have received a decision from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Minister of Justice and Deputy Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you know at the last session, this House confirmed the Council of Ministers' Decision on the composition of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without the minister of justice and his deputy. Then you are familiar with the reasons for the incomplete composition of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate about this. Who wants to talk? If no one answers the word, I close the debate and we move on to a plea. I ask you who is to confirm the decision of the Council of Ministers chairman? Who's in? Thank you. Did you count it? Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Give me the results. Is there any need for an entity? There is. By entities. Who's in favour of the Federation Decision? Did you count it? Thank you. Republika Srpska who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. I declare the results of the vote. General parliamentary vote. Of the 38 deputies voted 22, 8 were against, there were 8 abstentions. There is general parliamentary support. The Federation's entities voted 14. So more than 1/3, from Republika Srpska is 8 for, more than 1/3. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina confirmed the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint Mr Slobodan Kovač as Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Mr Niko Grubišić as Deputy Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call on the two mentioned, or appointed, as well as Mr Kumalić, who last time, the Deputy Finance Minister did not give a solemn statement to approach the pay phone here to make a solemn statement. The rest of you, please stand up while a solemn statement is made. You will repeat the text of the solemn statement as I read.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7283	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties entrusted to me 15 I will fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina to protect and improve human rights and fundamental freedoms and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens of Mr Kovač, Mr Grubišić, Mr Kumalić, on behalf of the House of Representatives and, in my personal name, I would like to give you my congratulations on the just given solemn statement and wish you a lot of success and happiness in your work. Thank you. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. The MPs' questions and answers, Dama and gentlemen, have so far not received a single answer to the parliamentary questions, except that the College has answered Muhamed Moranjkić's question. The answer you received from the College, I remind the Council of Ministers that the provision of Article 128 of this House stipulates that answers to parliamentary questions must be given within 15 days, but may be required to extend that period by 10 days maximum. We expect that in the next period we will receive answers to the questions asked. I remind the talođer once again of the provisions of Article 125. The Rules of Procedure on which questions in writing are submitted to the chair and the submission shall include a statement of whether the MP requests an oral reply to the House or a written reply. Here you go. Ask questions. We've already got one question. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija announced the question and give me that question. Who else wants to set it up? Does anyone have a written question? Like this. Please. You have no need to explain at all, I will forward this to the Council of Ministers. Here's to the pay phone right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7284	Three minutes a Rules of Procedure for this. I'll read the question in three minutes, because this isn't the chairman of the archives, this isn't for the Professional Service. Therefore, in accordance with the Decision, is it with the Rules of Procedure and with section 4 of the question, it is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to the competent minister. I don't want to prejudge the Council of Ministers Act. - I request that I be delivered and presented to the public a list of companies with their headquarters and names with a job description, a date of contract conclusion and amounts contracted and paid by companies to date as well as planned future projects with deadlines and prices under the implementation of the CIPS project. The explanation for that is I suppose unnecessary to give beyond. - I'm also asking for a precise indication of whose decisions and how the price of the issue of personal documents is formed which is now in public...contraversion. 16 - Is it also why she crossed the planned amount? - What is the price compared to the previous prices of old ID cards on cantons and entities? - What is the role of international and what domestic officials have played throughout the process, especially lately? - How much has the money since the payment of IDs been paid so far? - Where did this money go as well as what plan of realization for this year with precise indications of what these funds are going to do and what does the Council of Ministers intend to do and how long until a single record of all BiH citizens and citizens is established? If the chairperson and the competent minister cannot answer this to me now, although I think it would be logical to be able to answer this question in recent days, I can later respond in accordance with this Article 128 in 15 days or after 10 days of extension. But that is why today I am asking for an oral answer at least one question in line with the corresponding member of the Rules of Procedure, which is - Why is the late implementation of the CIPS project? - Why is the public not better informed if the delay is the result of objective weakness and - Why is there no responsibility for those failures, if there are any subjective natures? - And when will the public be informed of all this by the competent institutions, or when the projects will enter a mature phase of implementation, and whether cases of corruption have been observed by state, domestic or international officials throughout the project, and if what is being done on this issue? And at the end of this question I want to ask the Council of Ministers - do they think anything to do that the single price of ID cards on the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is to be 10 marks as planned? If they don't have plans, first of all, I don't know if it's 10 marks, 14, 15.5 or how much, but I want the Council of Ministers to give me that answer. If the price planned should be for the citizens for who knows what reasons, which we will know when the answers to these questions go beyond 10 marks, - does the Council of Ministers have any plan to go beyond 10 KM in an appropriate budget rebalancing or in agreement with the ethnic competent institutions, as they were told, as they were expected, as planned, and what seems not to be the case today. Mr. Chairman, here's more for you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7285	Yes, yes, thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I've been asking this question for a year, but I can't get an answer from the people's home, so I hope we get that answer. Let's move on. Mr. Potočnik answered. And you gave it in writing. Mr. Moranjkić, then Mr. Gligorić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7286	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried today and I will try to ask a parliamentary question and express my parliamentary response to - the general security of the returnees and the violation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement which has recently become alarming. Instead of the time we're moving away from the Dayton Agreement, the safety and security of the returnees is improving, we've been witnessing lately that the opposite is happening in both entities where the defendants rarely or at all reveal themselves, so they don't normally sanction, which gives a more black picture to this phenomenon. With another note, it is both entities and even the Brcko District. This is further worrying and raises doubts that this is organised and that, unfortunately, some authorities that should prevent and sanction it are involved in this organization. There is a wide range of actions and works that are a direct attack on the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, and today, in the form of material that is extremely broadly delivered to Mr Čolak Bariša, who wishes to be his initial job in his ministerial work. I use the opportunity, because it's a 50-page material with evidence of certain phenomena and the installation of certain processes that affect even political spheres. I wouldn't normally be able to use it, but I'm going to use it like this, to ask - that the Minister of Security, Mr Bariša Čolak, do all this through the competent authorities and personally through the IPTF, examine and take legal action, and that it initiates procedures and what it thinks, and informs this Parliament and the public what it has done. And I demand that under the urgent agenda of this Parliament be found a part of the agenda – Security in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a picture of the current and current situation and measures that have not taken or taken so far and what to do in the future and who and how it should make all of this not happen to us. That would be the first job I'm thinking to that minister and I'm making this material out of 50 typed pages to be directed to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7287	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Gligorić, let Mr. Lozančić be prepared, then Mr. Špirić. That's what I was able to record. Mr. Ćeman, Mr. Avdić. That would be some order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7288	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to get an answer in writing, and I am asking the Council of Ministers and Colleges of the House of Representatives - Who, on behalf of whom and since when has been mandated to conduct consultations and negotiations on reform projects, in particular, the introduction of a single customs duty at the level of BiH and VAT? 18 You yourself and the assembly majority in this parliament, SDA, SDS and HDZ said you were reformers. That's what you said in your exposé, Mr. Terzić. You used to have a crackdown on real political persecution, but if you're reformers, if on the other hand we have political leaders who signed something in the OHR, some reform projects, and then they serve the people and say something they can and can't do. This is an explanation for this question. You, if you have a public problem in the SDS, that's your problem. Let us, then, make it clear what reform projects are and support it as a congregational majority. Or on one side of the deal, you agreed that you couldn't see in public that you couldn't function, that you had discrepancies and cracks, and then you asked someone in the OHR to keep them all secret.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7289	What's the question, Mr. Gligorić? Question, please. Question, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7290	The question is: - Who, on behalf of whom and since when has been given the mandate to conduct consultations and negotiations on reform projects, especially the single customs duty of BiH and VAT?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7291	Give me that in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7292	That's what I'm talking about. Don't interrupt me, you
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7293	I want to interrupt you because you've been talking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7294	I looked at the clock, I've got 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7295	Let's go another 50 seconds and let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7296	That means you asked someone in the OHR. We can't agree, we can't function, and give you the law imposed, and we sit nice in the chairs and rule and we'll never fight, and then we get a practical Parliament that's excess here. Someone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is too big. Therefore, I would ask you to give an answer in writing. I think this is the point. Don't stick your head in the sand like a nog or hide your problems under the carpet, but let's see what kind of people are doing to us all behind our backs so nice and we as MPs sort out here, 19 we get something. It counts on the hours of the most important legal projects in this country and we need to be robots to support it. I'm running out of time now, Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7297	Just give me that in writing. There you go. Thank you, the chairman is filed under the Rules of Procedure, and I will give, I will further schedule it as ordered by the Rules of Procedure. Don't worry about anything. Mr. Lozančić has his word. Here you go. Let Mr. Špirić prepare himself. Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7298	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers. I have two questions and they are addressed to the Council of Ministers to whom I would like an answer. We know that a set of laws in the field of standardisation of intellectual property measurement as well as accreditation was passed during 2000 and 2001. These laws, the High Representative, Mr Petrič, was well known on the basis of the Council's conclusions on the implementation of peace in Brussels on 23 and 24 May 2000. According to these findings in BiH, they must start work on the adoption of standardisation laws and the establishment of institutes for standards, measurement, intellectual property at BiH level and entity institutions at the level of the measuring entity. I know that the formation of these institutions has been, for the formation of these institutions it is necessary to bring a number of legal acts around... educate personnel, train competent laboratories, and provide material support. It's been more than two years since then, so I'm interested in that first question as a representative. What is done in this field and what is the cooperation between state institutes and entity institutions, if any. Also on the internet, I read the review report from the Institute for Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property in BiH for 2001. In this report, there is a huge lack of work as well as major financial misunderstandings, so my second question is one requirement, i.e. to provide this parliament from the Council of Ministers with a written report on the work and organisation of the Institute of Standards, Measurements, intellectual property at BiH level, which will include a financial report for 2001 and 2002. I'll leave this on the table.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7299	Thank you. Mr. Špirić Nikola. Let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7300	Madam Chairman, esteemed MPs, I have one question and if I may have received a partial answer in the debate on the agenda. The conclusion of this home or this council was to hold an emergency session of the Representative Council dedicated to the general and security situation in BiH. It's a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that no one in this country is prepared to inform anyone of anything. Can there be a reason that there is no emergency session for more than a month and a half because there has been no report of how many people have been killed, how many returnees have been attacked, 20 how many cars have been blown up, or the answer is that the different bandits, the terrorists have been given wings by establishing a new government, and so I'm asking the question. In line with the conclusion of this house, why is there not an emergency meeting of the Representative Council dedicated to the worsening security situation in BiH, and who is responsible? We had an opening statement from the current Prime Minister who said a matter of responsibility under one. Does it really make sense, whether it makes any sense to hold an emergency session or wait for another terrible incident or a crime to happen so it's an extraordinary session, or if we have an extraordinary session when we get a report similar to a report dedicated to illegal weapons storage in BiH, where the parliamentary commission found that it was not a commission to determine illegal weapons but ammunition. You can think of tragedies. So I'm asking exactly who's responsible? Is there a responsibility in this country? Here's a question, and I'm giving it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7301	I thank Mr. Špirić. We'll give you an answer, Mr. Špirić, and if I gave you a partial answer. We're waiting for information from the Council of Ministers, we spoke with the chairman of the Council of Ministers at this session of the College. So this is the answer to you, Mr Špirić, when we have scheduled this session, when we can expect this information about the security situation in BiH and we have received the answer that it is realistic that this session is somewhere in mid-February, that the information should come in time, that it be delivered to you as MPs, and we take great care of this special or extraordinary session of this house. That's the answer to your question. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7302	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I intended to ask a question in writing and ask the answer from the minister who is not here, Minister Ivanić, Minister of Foreign Affairs, of course in oral form, but at this point it can only mean that I seek an answer in writing. Namely, whether BiH Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanić believes that in this capacity and as professor at the University of Banja Luka, he should and may influence some allegations on the official website of a presentation of the Banja Luka University. Namely, on the official website of the university, it says that the University of Banja Luka is co-operating with universities in Yugoslavia and abroad. Is therefore SR Yugoslavia for Minister Ivanic from BiH abroad. The information I'm talking about is from 2001, and I downloaded it recently, expecting an opportunity to post it on 19th of last year. It is indisputable that it is good that the University of Banja Luka and all the universities in BiH are working together with both universities in BiH and abroad. I, of course, connected these two functions, therefore, Mr. Minister as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Mr. Minister as a professor at that university for a practical reason that in truth, a man representing BiH, as foreign minister, should ensure that the data is in line with the policy that such a minister should represent, both abroad and abroad. Thank you very much. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7303	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Avdić Sead, let Mr. Đedović Ibrahim be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7304	The koleginica and colleagues of one suggestion, one question, and this is a suggestion that by the next session of the House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers is indeed acting according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and that answers to the asked question, otherwise we will come to a constraint and it will be unconditional to ask or initiate some answers. And, on the other hand, the question, in the form of a proposal. I propose that the Council of Ministers urgently examine, consider, and possibly offer a proposal for a law on the principles of privatisation of infrastructure enterprises, which govern the natural and infrastructure treasures of BiH. So it would be necessary as a top law at BiH level, which would give the principles of privatization of strategic enterprises, infrastructure enterprises, which use the country's natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7305	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Đedović. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7306	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will have three very short questions. The first question is the Ministry of Human Rights. Who, by which right and on what basis can charge TV subscriptions from residents of this country to whom the previous, if previously not enabled to receive a signal from that television or via any antenna, which can be purchased in this country. Even charge is done by court? So let me be clear. Federal television is running a charge or a court route where there's no way that you're using any antenna to watch that TV. A particular relay of the Majevica, before it was now gone. Second question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What are the reasons why the Republic of Croatia is building for its part the Maljevac border crossing, while at the same time BiH is crossing the Izacic border? At the very least, it would be logical if it were synchronised. I'm asking, why isn't it? Third question to the Director of the State Border Service. Why is nothing done to avoid any mile-long columns on their way out of BiH every weekend at the Maljevac border crossing? In fact, every week thousands of people go to work across Western Europe and columnary columns are formed that wait for several hours and make the absurd a larger column 22 hitched from the Bosnian not on the Croatian side. I'm asking, why aren't you doing anything and when will the directors of the DGS take care of this problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7307	Then bring the Secretariat here. Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković Momčilo has his word and then we're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7308	Fellow MPs, the issue addressed to the BiH Election Commission, reads. Is the Law of Elections, the Law of Suduce of Interest or any other law contrary to the parliamentary mandate of Mr Gligorić and his position as director of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7309	Give me that question. So, I'm saying, please, a little attention. I find that none of the interested have reported to take part in asking questions. Does the Council of Ministers have any need to answer any questions? The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7310	I really want to ask the MPs to understand that the Council of Ministers is still under way. Here, today, we finally have a complete composition of the Council of Ministers, so there were some objective circumstances why we could not answer the asked parliamentary questions, but I firmly promise that this practice is behind us and that from Thursday we will be very quick to answer all parliamentary questions, because we consider it a good way to clarify certain negative phenomena or ambiguities in the functioning of the state system. I just want to take a brief look at the responsibility. The question asked by MP Špirić. So, who's responsible? Among others, there is one wide diapazon of responsible people. All those who have been responsible since the signing of the Dayton Agreement to date have not adopted any similar text of the Ministry Act. All those who are not the Council of Ministers are responsible for giving them the authority to directly coordinate with other authorities in BiH on these issues, let's say, in part, those 15 MPs, who asked the Council of Ministers for such information and if the chairman, objectively, has no authority to ask entity or competent ministries for that information, but it is certain that we have overcome this in a way that the Council of Ministers has requested this information from entity governments and may be responsible for those who do not allow the Ministry of Security, the adoption of this law, not obtaining the intelligence and use of data of importance for the security of BiH, the organisation and harmonisation of activities of entities of internal affairs, the Brcko BiH District for the achievement of security tasks in the interest of BiH. So, with this law, we slowly take the round of those responsible for the very number, which is the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the resolution ministries. 23 The information, as far as I am concerned, ends in the entity ministries, and we will, within the deadlines agreed with the College, come up with one piece of information that, here, will paint today's situation in BiH, on the issues you asked for, but certainly it will not be as wide and so profound and as precise as it would be if we had adopted a law on ministries and that we had already adopted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7311	Thank you. There's no argument. This was Mr. Špirić's answer to your question. Here you go, Mr. Špirić, he's right, according to the Rules of Procedure, he's right, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7312	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for an answer to this parliamentary question so that the situation in BiH would change for the better, and I asked the College for an answer that was required to schedule the session. I didn't ask the Council of Ministers, I didn't even ask for an oral response, but since we always have quick answers after tragic events, then this response by Mr. Prime Minister is a fantastic basis for the growth of crime and terrorism in this country. The answer is slowly getting information. They won't make up for the dead who were killed. It won't fix the blue backs to refugees and cars that flew into the air. That's the problem of this country that every government looks back on some previous one, but isn't it a tragic event that happened for an extraordinary session? Now we've forgotten that. Should there be any tragedy in this country and be an emergency session so we can have all the information. My question of responsibility concerns entity ministers and all those in the line of responsibility in BiH. So tell us this information. So how is it possible if the family was killed in Konjic and even the vice president of the municipality didn't even reach the head of the SUP. So it's a matter of responsibility that I insist on, and these are the answers we're going to listen to on the assumption that we all blow up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7313	Moving to the next item of the agenda, that's Add.4. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration under Article 105. Rules of Procedure, you've received ladies and gentlemen of this law. We've received a request from the Council of Ministers. Is there a need for a Council of Ministers to address someone or we will open the debate immediately, since there has already been a debate, during the debate on the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. About the requirement to go by article 105, and when it's held, then there's just no vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7314	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, we have a law before us which, I repeat once more and should and should be an essential expression of the political will of the Bosnian-Herzegovina Parliament and of the one and the other home. Why am I talking? Because when it is finally read and entered into the study of this law you have to get 24 impressions that the law in this form fails to meet the two criteria of a possible three, which is constitutionality, legality and efficiency. I don't think it can withstand the test and criteria of legality and efficiency. Why these two criteria? Because, simply, when you take it and study it well, it objectively does not give answers to what is called, above all the legality, which can suddenly only be explained by an example, which is that the law abolishes or says ceases the work of six institutions resulting from the continuity of BiH, the result of the special legislative rules of '96. years, etc. and in this context, let's just say, the BiH Employment Service, which was last year and before last year 2001, was once again verified by the OHR. The established BiH-level institution. It can also be argued with international conventions on labour and employment, mentioning Conventions or Resolution 88, 122 or Resolution 2 which discusses the establishment of an employment organisation at Member State level. We are a Member State, we have signed a resolution and simply the Council of Ministers hereby abolishes a legally-founded institution, which is also required by the White Paper, according to each of the criteria of a normal European state. If we are determined to go to the European community, and that is no longer an alternative, it is quite political will, the political consensus of the BH Parliament and all the authorities in BiH, then it is really necessary to ask ourselves how and in what way, simply the Council of Ministers can offer such a law on ministries, which is objectively contrary to all of these elements, and what with the law declared by Petrič in 2001 and certified by one and the other Parliament. I only argument it on one example, simply the BiH Employment Service. By the efficiency objectively here in the law you have, there is no more complex system to rule with, believe me. When you take the theory and practice of managing systems, there is no more complicated system than it is the state administration, than it is the Council of Ministers, than it is a single state mechanism. Eh, now in this mechanism, the Council of Ministers is a crucial body, from which everything, simple and legal regulations, proposals etc. Which means, if you have in that law about the Council of Ministers' ministries, you have several concepts and several levels of decision-making. You have ministries, you have administrative organizations within ministries, you have independent administrative organisations as part three, you have directorates, you have commissions, etc. Then you have to wonder how it can work. Who is responsible to whom, what is the system of competence and decentralisation of the decision-making system, etc. Here, take this. You don't have an independent board of state border agencies. She's a state-of-the-art function. Well, wasn't she, really, able to be, say, an independent primary organization? So, this complicated system of organizations, which has several concepts, I repeat once again, commissions, directorates, administrative organizations within ministries and an independent administrative organisation outside the ministry. The objective question is whether it can work. I mean this system of efficiency, that criterion of this law is not, it simply doesn't respect or simply ignore. He says this way, the Directorate for European Integration simply coordinates letters and work tasks from his domain, we know what European integration is with all other bodies and BH institutions. How can a directorate coordinate two ministries? Who gives it to the right? Who is the directorate responsible for? How can the Directorate coordinate several ministries? One directorate that's not in the absolute level of one ministry's decision. So, when you take that into account, believe me, it could be much longer to say this law can't function. The Council of Ministers, be assured, will not be able to function under this law. So this efficiency system is not respected simply, etc. 25 When you take further arguments, I want to explain to you the necessity of the continuity of these six institutions, which are simply, to the most extent, an integral part of the statehood of every normal, civilized state, without which a normal state cannot function, which are the essential functions of every country in Europe and the European community, then how do we reduce the statehood of this country in such a way? How in such a way, we simply bring under the question of the Crucial Functions both from the Employment Service and from this establishment for geodetic and property-legal affairs. Believe austrougarski in 1880 established this system of management for geodetic and property-legal affairs. In 1880, she took care of the BiH state and gave first at the state level, in 1907 she established and organised a BiH-level Employment Bureau. They've endured all these transformations by 2003, and now the Council of Ministers has abolished it. Believe me, I don't think that this is a good way to simply strengthen and strengthen BiH, for doting, I would say to a large extent one of its statehood, and in this context I think it would be a good idea for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to explain all these elements that I am talking about today. Which means it would be good to simply enable the continuity of these institutions that form an integral part of BiH's statehood. They are not contrary to the Dayton Agreement, I do not see the ministry agreeing and in this context that they simply harmonize everything that seems and does all the way to the Health Protection Institute at BiH level, and a few details can be illustrated. So, I suggest that the State Border Service would at least be an independent administrative organisation, as well as an integral part of the statehood of an expensive one and in this context as it can be within one ministry. How can there be one department or one administrative organisation within one ministry? How can the ministry coordinate everything? The ministry counts 50 people and the State Border Service counts 2,000 people. How can this be in the hands of a ministry? I am once again saying, this kind of premeditated law can't be done by people from the aspect of governance with the state administration system in the Council of Ministers of this country's system. There is also a mix of, one-of-a-kind powers and competences of decision-making levels, ministries, directorates, management organisations, commissions, etc. And I beg you, there must be order. It can't stay that way. It can't work, I can assure you one more time. It won't work. It says this way that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is responsible for harmonising the plans of entity bodies, I repeat, the authorities of institutions on the international agenda in areas: agriculture, energy, environmental protection, the development of the use of economic resources and tourism. Is energy exclusively in the jurisdiction of the entity, so today we form a state commission for the distribution of el. Energy. Didn't we adopt the Law on the Regulatory Agency, etc. So it's already against the law. It is not true that these are exclusively entity competences and, objectively, it is a fundamental remark, a premise, the law is made that BiH is a simple collection of two entities and Brcko District, and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state is somewhat more than that and has its own powers, powers, has its state powers and competences given to the Dayton Agreement, which means that, objectively, it needs to be reconsidered. Whether the principle of consensus is simple communication, says co-operation at the minister, deputy minister and secretary's route. That means, running and handling with the ministry the expression of the political consensus of these three men, or it's just a consultation, an optional sarge or I don't know what. Right? This must be made quite clear and said down here, Article 21 of the Management Organisations, who are within the departments for their work, when, I repeat, the minister is responsible for his work and the minister who manages the ministry. Well, it's not that he's a minister and a minister, the minister is known to be simply a leading person to one ministry and he's not fit by the minister, but the minister is responding. All administrative organizations and all bodies within that ministry. Which means you'll share your responsibility. Then you will have chaos in terms of decision-making and accountability simply in the Council of 26 ministers. I'm doing it one more time. You won't be able to function as you plotted it, there's still a lot to talk about. Simplely harmonize efforts such as BiH's entry into the European community, the adoption of the White Paper 6,400 regulations, the acceptance of everything that is intellectual, legislative, etc. The European Communities are becoming a commitment to BiH and it is the easiest. Why didn't you rephrase it from every normal state in the European Community as it worked out. What are the functions at country level, etc.? So we went back a step in terms of simply designing and functioning the BiH state. Reduced its statehood and in this context it is a major political issue. I once again suggest that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, consult and that they simply propose that this law go according to Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7315	I thank Mr. Avdić. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7316	Here I didn't know we were going to open a debate about the essence of the law now, so I didn't even answer it. I have not even answered to explain some things that may not, with a number of MPs, surely, regardless of my clarifications, their views will remain. So, what was the intention of achieving this law? This law aims to achieve that BiH finally gets a Council of Ministers that has the full authority of the government to finally determine in every ministry what it is that it is part of the ministry's work. You take, if you want in the Constitution and in the laws so far, which have treated that matter, you have one number of indents, mandates for individual ministries, and take and count now these powers that have the ministries and directorates formed by this law, and you will mathematically come to the conclusion that the text of this law is a huge advance in creating a position that the Council of Ministers can take over its constitutional powers and can take over the leading role in the hierarchy of the state administration in BiH. I know article 29 is a huge problem. Believe it's personal and for me, for some in this room, it is, for some in this room, it's not, but it's simple, we have to remind ourselves that we've even come to the text of the ministry law. So, several months ago, within the OHR, a working group was formed by representatives of all political parties, who, under the declared Council of Ministers Act, sat down and tried to bring the text of the law on BiH's ministries and bodies. The text that came out after several sessions and circles of that alignment was, I also say responsibly that the text that we have offered is much better, much more appropriate to BiH's needs than was the original text, and let me just take Article 29. The predicate we received from the OHR decidently states that on the day of entry into force of this law, the work of the institution established by the regulations of the Republic of BiH, the Institute of Protection, Employment, Institute for International, Scientific and Technical Cooperation, etc. and their affairs under this law will be taken over by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So this is a literal termination and this is literally the solution that was agreed within the commission, where all the representatives of the political parties were sitting, where a working group of all the political parties was formed, so nobody has been amnested since the adoption of this bill by the OHR and is addressed to us in a debate. I think what we've achieved with this law is as follows. 27 We, however, must understand that those institutions, which were formed before the adoption of the Constitution of today's BiH, had powers, had detours of work, which are not 100% in agreement with the BiH Constitution, I speak in all segments. On the other hand, we need to determine that these institutions live and work in BiH for seven years, and that no one is funding them, that no one is taking care of them and that we all stick our heads in the sand that they exist. For some of whom BiH is more at heart, they exist and they are a guarantee of BiH's statehood, etc. For those who have fewer elements in their heart, they simply do not exist and they are not recognized and in the worst position are those who work and who are employed and who lead and seduce and constitutional ones. We passed this law by consensus, which means that this council of ministers will come out of this situation in such a way that, in accordance with the provisions of this law, they will cease to work. The Ministry of Civil Affairs takes over from their responsibilities through its sectors and will lay down its rules of procedure, a regulation on internal organisation and job systemisation, but the Council of Ministers is obliged to make within 90 days. Watch out every council of ministers has so far been tasked with agreeing on something about these institutions at a later stage, not treating them, but this council of ministers has made a commitment to adopt, within 90 days, through the Resord Ministry of Civil Affairs and in fact propose laws that allow these institutions to be transformed in principle into agencies or appropriate institutions with part-time work as possible today under the Constitution of BiH and adopted regulations and with the volume of employees, the scope of work as appropriate to today's situation in BiH. So, I wouldn't view this as a recognition and a denial of BiH's statehood in these segments, because if you look at Article 15 and Article 29, they leave us room to solve the issue of these institutions in a 90-day phase. It obliges us to resolve the issue of these institutions. A legitimate question arises why in seven years no one has solved the issue of these institutions. Here I am, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, asking that question. Why no one has solved it so far and why these are institutions that fail, which depend only on whether they are driven by a skilled, nimble man who can find sources of funding or not. I guarantee that this council of ministers on these institutions, through the Ministry of Civil Affairs together with me, will take care of me and that we will regulate them and lead them to what BiH needs, but also what is within the limits of today's opportunities and the needs of BiH. Will they in some segments, where it is not mandatory to have an agency or an institution, become a sector within the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that is now the thing that we will determine, valorise needs and opportunities and thus formulate. Surely, the laws that have already been passed will be respected, related to the institutions which he mentioned and, as some MPs have mentioned. Surely this does not mean that what the Austro-austrougarski Mr. Avdić did today will die. I don't see the reason that with so much mistrust, I know you have a good will, but I don't see any reason why so many mistrusts in people who are doing this job right now, and you personally question the death of an institution that is Austro-austrougarski, if nothing at all is impossible for me to do because it's what Mr. Gligorić told me is a basic activity. What do you say next about this law? Surely the need for independent administrative organisations to exist is, in principle, the principle that the current council of ministers determines whether it is good for our functioning that we have a huge number of independent primary organisations, which correspond, someone said, to the Presidency, someone said this, or whether it is necessary for us to strengthen the ministries and I think in the first order that we, at least I, as chairman, must make sure that the minister in charge of his portfolio has full width and the possibility of action through all those segments that do not just the ministries, are also administrative organisations. I am a supporter of one great responsibility and myself personally and ministers, but also a supporter to allow these ministers to have under their control everything that can help him do more professionally and better his job. So that's the question of commitment now. 28 Surely every country in the world and BiH, after each election, changes something within its state administration system so that some special ministries are formed, even coalitions are formed before the elections, with the precise idea that a ministry will form, some ministry will shut down, etc. The state administration is basically one system that has always been subject to change in all systems and I would not now ask a crucial question whether an independent administrative organisation is only guaranteed that we will do some work in that part or is a administrative organisation, which is in the form of a ministry with the same powers just a little bit changed responsibility, i.e. the point to which it suits. I think a huge number of independent administrations at the level of the BiH state question the responsibility of all those sitting in the Council of Ministers and these are administrative organisations which, I say conditionally, are responsible to someone, but there are no direct and daily responsibilities there. I think what we want to do in these reform processes, however, involves as many segments of the state administration as possible responsible for the ministers and by their work to the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. The next thing I want to say is that, it is clear that and, it is probably Mr Avdić is right and all those who consider that the Directorate for European Integrations there is something that is not relevant to the current acquired habits about what the Directorate in the State Administration hierarchy is, what the Ministry of Justice is, but we have come to the Directorate for European Integration, because we have had a two-year system in which we have the Ministry of European Integration and no one living under God has been satisfied with what the ministry has done in that operational sense of unification, the operational meaning of leading BiH institutions and BiH itself towards European integration. Surely there are certain objective circumstances here whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of European Integration and I think that what is, which are representatives of the European Commission, and we cannot say that what the representatives of the European Commission think about us being all one thing and that we are smarter than them and that we actually need to ask ourselves, I think that we must respect, because we want to enter that European Union, then some guidelines from the European Commission must be accepted. They felt that the best organisational form of the Directorate for European Integration was and I must admit that it was settled by the Council of Ministers Act and this Council of Ministers could not enter the scale of whether it was a real organisation or not. If we have some ambiguities, there will be some uncertainty, whether what the Directorate for European Integration should do is in principle lead to complete activity on all possible changes and additions to our system laws, sublegal acts, harmonisation of European standards and, behold, we must leave little space to, possibly in the second stage, when we are 100% clear of the role of the Directorate and of those who lead and representatives of the European Commission to then, in the second stage, we may be adding that text. But when it comes to the ministries, I think that there really, absolutely, we have certain competences, we have enough broad competences that such a law on the Council of Ministers can't be an obstacle to any ministry to fulfil its constitutional powers, and I think that in this part, these provisions should really be laid down within the law on ministries and other administration bodies to support it. I don't think we've done one, let's say, a dramatic failure in that some ministry has got something that doesn't belong to it under the Constitution, or that we've missed the chance to leave enough room for us to go through the Council of Ministers' activities, so, with all these reform elements that we want to create to open up space for some ministry to get in charge and something that will only come up in a year or two days. I think, when I talk about the ministry's work here, it's optimally affected at this point what's there for this whole term and period of the ministry to do. 29 Behold, so much, so here I keep the need and to say a few things after the rest of the discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7317	I thank Mr. Terzić. The first one answered for the word. Here you go, Mr. Avdić replika. Have Moranjkić Muhamed prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7318	My koleginica and colleagues, I think that, I believe, I am convinced that this House of Representatives does not come from the premise of mistrust towards the current Council of Ministers, especially in person to the chairman of the Council of Ministers or as a whole to the Council of Ministers of BiH. Which means every position and reception... as far as we're concerned, it convinces us that it has the power to communicate with parlament and, yes, we simply exchange critical intonations and thus build one policy and legal projects in this house. But I'd only like to answer one. A member of this 15th is a problem in this law, which says that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is relevant to the fact that it also lists that I do not bother you. The Ministry is relevant for the performance of the tasks and the resolution of tasks that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina's competence, relating to the identification, care, basic principles of coordination of activities, the coordination of the plans of the entity bodies of authorities and the definition of the strategy on the international agenda in areas, and then states: health, health and social protection, pension, science and education, work and employment, culture and sport, geodetic, meteorological affairs, which means, if you take this premise, it means, coordinating activities, coordinating the plans of the entity bodies of authorities and defining the strategy in international areas, then it is quite an argument for my thought and my position, which is that we cannot observe simple intelligence and powers as a simple collection of simple what is done in entities and Brcko District. In this it is simply a distance of mine compared to this text and hence this Article 15. Absolutely, believe me, Mr. Chairman is analizing and these institutions cease their existence. Because they no longer have any conditional terms of authority that they now have, in part, and that function fully for the benefit of, above all, Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're on the same path simply looking for solutions how to simply this council of missionaries with all the other institutions that are, are the continuity of Dejton and that are needed by one normal civilised state. Now, if you're going to transform it simply by this attitude, you're going to delegate absolutely from the aspect of their scale of functions that they have today. They can be reduced, of course, there is no dilemma, transform, adapt to the organisational structure of the Council of Ministers, etc. It is not disputed, but it is disputed that this Article 15, which is absolutely simply those institutions, ceases to exist from the aspect of capacity and the simple competences they have. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7319	The word is requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić. A brief probably response to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7320	Here's just a short and very well-intentioned one. It means when we talk about having a Health and Social Services, etc. According to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was established under 30 laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What capacity are we talking about? It is not an institution that has been accepted throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here's to not mentioning the entities. So it's not the institution that's been accepted throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. This gives us the opportunity to run these affairs by a ministry that will be accepted through these coordination items, etc. runs the Ministry of Civil Affairs throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this ends the possibility of discussing which part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is established under the law of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and where it can exercise its legal competences in the first place. So we look at it that way. The ministry is responsible for carrying out tasks and for carrying out tasks that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction. It shall then coordinate the activities and coordinate the plans of the entity bodies of the authorities, etc. and defining the strategy on the international agenda in areas. So it's simple for us that none of the elements currently running the office have been dropped. It has even been increased by obtaining authority across Bosnia and Herzegovina through the centre of civil affairs. And we must admit that any institution formed under the laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not work for the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it was not recognised. So you can look at it from the angle I'm talking about, Mr. Avdić, but please let's look at it from this angle a little bit. I'm not going to say I'm 100% right, I'm just opening up MPs the possibility of watching from this angle as well. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7321	I thank Mr. Terzić. Sir, please be nice. Please, Mr. Bešlagić Selim, replica to the presentation of the Council of Ministers chairman, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7322	I mean, here's the thing. According to Article 29, you said that according to the provisions of this law of the authority of the administration established before the adoption of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it means Dayton. They're being abolished, and now you've listed who these are. However, let me just tell you that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Management and Administrative Organisations Act "The Official Journal of BiH" number 17/'96 means after the Dayton Constitution. So it wasn't before, but after the Dayton Constitution, it was formed, or formed, the Institute for Geodesy and the Meteorological Institute of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, Article 29 is not consistent with what you say. In Article 29, everything that was before was to be abolished was to be abolished by the Constitution. These two institutions were formed after the Dayton Constitution, so please take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7323	That doesn't stop, man. Okay. Thank you. We're moving on to discussions. Sit down, Mr. Moranjkić. Easy, while I call you, don't get up. So wait, when I call you. Hold on a second. This way, please. I was informed of the discussion, as far as I was able to record, Mr. Moranjkić, Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Križanović, Mr. Žigić, Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Kunić and Mr. Ćeman. 31 Please, the word is Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7324	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will try in short lines to speak in two contexts of this bill about how I saw it and how I felt, but before that, I would ask that Mr. and President of the Council of Ministers and Mr. Ministers who sit here do not understand, and it feels a little bit now that this is an attack on someone and now someone is defending themselves against someone. It's my wish, and I think it's the wish of most people sitting here to make the best of the law so that these people do the best they can and the best they can in life. And in that context, we're trying to make our contributions. About that, by that. So I'd like to make one general comment of 2-3 sentences. It is illogical for me as a human and unacceptable that the final legislator of the law, which is this home, this Parliament, except in the whole law which has several ministries, loses contact with whoever is passed by the law, except in Article 8(4), where it is shyly mentioned in the first ministry and this parliament. So I feel like we're creating a monster that needs to get away right away from this thing that he's creating and doing what he's doing. I don't doubt he's not going to work well, but at the same time I doubt he can do anything wrong. That is why, at the beginning, I am saying in principle that in this law there should be some place where control mechanisms, information mechanisms and everything that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure say that we, as Parliament, are obliged and obliged to do so. That's what I was going to say in general, because that's why we're losing stability as a parliament, or we're becoming on the sidelines, we're staying behind life, because this is life. And then I'd say a few things directly. Please, nice. I'll počeću very quickly what I do, and I'll ask people to accept that as well-intentioned. Maybe I'll make a mistake, but I'll take it out on good faith. In the first position, it ends with the words on page 5 of Article 4 : 'to answer for their execution'. Who? So far, practice has shown that around, especially in the most sensitive parts, no one has responded to anyone, which is precisely the painful situation in this country. So I suggest you automatically tell who, how and in what way. In the second position, they do other things by law and by their regulations. It's vague, it's unspeakable. Well, at least you have to say how tax-dealing things are so that those people who work there don't wander. And they should apply, and we, as messengers, whom the people will ask tomorrow, 'And what are they doing?'"and I take the law so I don't see what he's supposed to do. On page 7 through 8, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in Article 9 lists the affairs of the ministry on page 8 in the last indent, the number of jobs stands – "co-ordination of international economic assistance except for the one given by the EU". I mean, right now I'd ask as a man, and why not control it or it's forbidden by some act to us. So you should have said it in a sentence and said it because it's regulated or done with it and done with it. It's generating misunderstandings. 32 On page 8 through 9, the Ministry of Communications and Transport is talking about, and Article 10 on page 9 says "civil aviation and air traffic control" should put an end to that and say which territory? Whether it's over Sarajevo Airport, Banja Luka or it's on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, and especially here, there's no mention of the total air traffic used by anyone else and who's here now being subordinated or subordinated. Could the plane take off from the airport in Sarajevo, and the army tell him straight to Rylovec, shoot down and go back or vice versa. So there should be those things if we want to have one applicable and clear law to say. On page 10 of Article 13, he speaks of the Ministry of Justice and their tasks. Well, the last indent on page 10 is about the affairs of the administration, the non-inspection of law enforcement, and that only applies to civil servants of the government's staff. There's no telling what territory. Logic goes that this should be on the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, practice has shown that it's not exactly like that, and I think they need it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7325	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7326	I only apologize for one more minute, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7327	One more minute will do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7328	The Ministry of Security, I think the complete material is the most vague in this ministry. He got into a minefield that was supposed to do something. And I don't think this minister knows what he's going to do under this law. Next, here is the word: 'Internal border crossings' will be used. I think it's wrongly inserted, because we don't have internal border crossings in a single state. Except if someone doesn't think they're state entities, not to say cantons, and I think we should get that out of it, because it makes us a whole other picture then about the state, because they have external and internal border crossings. And the Ministry of Justice, that is, that is, all kinds of things. Finally, he says: "All that no ministry will do will be done by the Ministry of Justice." I think it's real, it's gotta be said, it's really vague and it shouldn't be qualified like that and it's kind of inadmissible. That's my well-intentioned one. So we need to make this right so it doesn't become hollow and inapplicable law or law that's gonna hit us on the head tomorrow, and that's why these things are well-intentioned. I suggest that this all be collected and not considered malicious, but seen to be introduced into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7329	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. I'll just give one intervention. Please, nice. We are discussing now, of course it is impossible to talk about the procedure, not to talk about the reasons for which the procedure is accepted or not accepted, and then inevitably enters the content of the law. And so that's the logical thing. But I would. 33 Mr. Moranjkić, I ask you to take your place. Just do it. You don't have to apologize. There you go. He apologizes, and there's another conversation, I think. Please, but I beg you, then, when we discuss the law, of course in short lines, we have a big agenda, we have a lot of agenda points. I don't want to take away the quality of this debate, but here I am asking you to make efforts to keep the discussions as long as it takes to deliver your opinion. I think in a few minutes, what a man thinks can be presented in a well-prepared discussion. Mrs. Palavrić answered her word. He's got a business course intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7330	Regardless of what the chairman has said now that when we talk about Article 105, we must also touch on the essence of the law, I must note that so far the speakers have acted as if we had already voted on the procedure under Article 105 and indeed talked exclusively about the essence of the law, not whether the conditions laid down in Article 105 were met, so the conditions of urgency and complexity of the law. With that on behalf of the SDA Club, please pause for 30 minutes, just before the next discussion is continued announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7331	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. I think her proposal is good. Many MPs have begun to leave the hall on their own, to go out, to enter, and I think it's time to take a break. I'm taking a break until 2:00. We'll continue at 14, exactly at 14. I am obliged to inform you that at the request of the SDS Club I extended this break for an additional 30 minutes. [[PAUZA]] I didn't get a chance to inform you because the request for a break came only when the time of the earlier break was up. We continue to work, continue the discussion. We are in the position of item 4 of the agenda – Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've got our debates on file. Mr. Bešlagić is up now, but he volunteered to give up the discussion, because while he had one intervention, he probably said what he meant to say. Mr. Jozo Križanović has a word. Have Mr. Žigić Izet prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7332	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I would first and foremost like to express my sincere position and to believe that this law is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina to function normally for the Council of Ministers and Administrative Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would also like to say that 34 I am deeply aware of the importance of this law, its seriousness and its sophistication in relation to it I would like to stress that we have a very responsible relationship with the text of this bill. I would also like to say that I will honor the President's appeal to be as concrete and concise as possible in making observations about this law. That is why I cannot accept the way in which this law is taken so seriously under Article 105 by emergency procedure. I would like to stress that neither the structure nor the government's organisation has been in line with the scope and quality of competence at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The truth of this law seems one step, one small shift, but certainly not enough. In this law, not at all, or to an appropriate extent, certain competences belonging to the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina are represented, or the place and role of individual authorities of the administration are not adequately regulated. First of all, I mean areas of defence, education, science, culture, sport, employment, social policy, and at risk of not being clear enough, I'm going to say one general thing that this law doesn't anticiprocate the necessary and necessary reforms for which we all seem to have chosen here. In fact, if a single economic system is to be set up, then, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an integrated market for goods, capital and labour must be provided and the free flow of these goods of capital and labour must be allowed. This needs to be more concrete at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to determine the positions of workers, employers in the market economy system. And of course, there is insufficient importance of education, science and proper treatment at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Starting with the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an subject of international law and international legal relations and that it is obliged to carry out certain activities as a member of the International Association as well as the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been admitted into the Council of Europe and that we will have to comply with many requests for further involvement in European integration, we must first and foremost bear in mind the fact that a few days ago the Steering Committee for Peace Implementation in Bosnia and Herzegovina concluded that a person headed by the Permanent Military Committee must be fully involved in the work of the Council of Ministers. In addition, the Law proposal does not make clear the demarcation of administrative organisations in the form of ministries and independent administrative organisations from administration bodies which are educated to study and process professional and other issues of certain areas for the exercise of certain professional services that require the application of scientific and especially professional methods such as institutions and directors. We also find it inadmissible to say in the bill that these areas will be determined and defined in accordance with the instructions or rules to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. In fact, I think it's very serious things this parliament should definitely be determined for. Let me just have a few more concrete remarks. These are remarks to Article 29, where certain institutions are said to be deluded at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that have a long tradition of stopping working with this law and that their organisation and the partial work will be determined by a subsequent special law. Also in the article, I don't think I have this law here, necessary, that the status of the independent authorities of the administrative bodies must be obtained by the State Border Service, the SIP, the Agency for Information and Protection and a series, a series of other organisations, institutions, administrative 35 bodies, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have already a significant tradition behind them and which represent Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood and which represent the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina for international communication and co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7333	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Žigić Izet. Have Mr. Gligorić Tihomir prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7334	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be really trying to be brief not to repeat what's already been said. It seems to me that a lot of things have been critically given to this law. There's a few things I'd just like to point out. That's a first, I probably won't be detailed, but that's why I'd give one at the end of the proposal, right, so I'm gonna try to give some of my thinking about the law first. It is truly incomprehensible to me here that one Ministry of Security within the Ministry of Security stands the Agency for the Protection of BiH, stands the State Border Service, stands..., stands notices in one vault, and we know that at entity levels they could not even be the same building with the Ministry of Interior where everything must be separated, expelled and control mechanisms have been given, some other powers and obligations to other institutions etc. Here we put into one ministry that's one illogical thing that's really not acceptable. Also, I think that this law would be lacking in general by one member, which could be the last, which is that international communication can only be done by the international communication of BiH institutions, can be done through the Council of Ministers, possibly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the virtually shutting down of these institutions, which have played a role in communicating with the world to exchange information that has led to the fact that all communication flows through the Council of Ministers, possibly one or two ministries. I would not like to repeat the remarks made here, concerning certain institutions, or organisations that are missing from this law, I would propose a concrete proposal, which is to give time to the Council of Ministers, not to take down this item of the agenda, nor to interrupt the debate on this law, given the discussions and remarks that have been made on this law that we give to the Council of Ministers a few days to review this law again, that in this form or another which it considers necessary to be prepared for this Parliament to deliver us and to continue the debate on this important law. We all know it's necessary to pass this law. We all know that this Council of Ministers without both laws cannot function, but I also believe that with such a law, the Council of Ministers cannot function and cannot achieve its full role, as a single government of a normal state should do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7335	I thank Mr. Žigić. Mr. Gligorić. Let Mr. Kunić Petar prepare himself. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7336	Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is an important law for the functioning of the Council of Ministers and, of course, other institutions in BiH. Here, she rightly pointed out the honourable MP Suada Palavrić, but the business intervention she had, but well, somehow we began to conduct a debate and then to end the content itself in such a way. Mr. Terzić said he thought there would be no debate, but I find it well-intentioned in the sense that the debate can always help and I think there have been a lot of good suggestions about it, so I would, too, if I asked nothing. Let's say, in principle, it's not marked here by the parties, in which it speaks the principle of constitutionality and legality, and efficiency, I think it's a bit of a problem and constitutional jurisdiction itself, but you should say something on behalf of the Council of Ministers whether there were problems and whether there were such issues. The principle of legality, as well as jurisdiction itself, intertwine in certain matters. Here, let's say, when we have a ministry, that is, in Article 18. Directorate for European Integration. He's here taxing on what the Directorate would do, what's their jurisdiction. It is not disputed that she should etc. but I think it is in some way a part of the job taken over by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because co-operation with the European Union, this integration, the European Commission, etc. I think it's problematic from that point of view. I, the direkcija for European Integration, believe that it should actually be within BiH, because it did not give results in its own time when it was turned outside and, therefore, this internal part should be particularly engaged, give jurisdiction here, this way, if I'm going to be a little bit mean, let's say that someone may have created a parallel foreign ministry and that the foreign minister does not believe and that in this way he would want to have one other thing, which could once again be brought into contact with the presidency that leads to public policy, so that we have again Mr. Terzić, who is the chairman and I say, I hope that it did not happen in this case. In Article 15, when we talk about the Ministry of Civil Affairs which is responsible, then everything that is problematic in Article 17, what was before, because the Council of Ministers has cleared something and cleared it up, we have independent administrative organisations: Statistics agencies, the Institute of Credit, the Institute of Standards, etc. BiH. That's good, that's what Parliament adopted, Council of Ministers, Parliament and it's ours and so we agreed and there's no problem, but it's a problem for other administrative organisations and there are six more in my opinion. Here you have defined three with the first and you have done well, but we have six of those who are in some way placed both science and education and work and employment, culture and sport, geodetic, geodetic, geodetic, because I am the director of geodetic affairs and give the Ministry of Civil Affairs and, at the same time, you have made such a possibility that the Council of Ministers will make a decision on, let's say, agencies, the Directorates are not the problem and that Parliament disappears. I think coordination should be what is entity jurisdiction, and here's the geodetic business is entity jurisdiction, here's what we'll take. At BiH level, we don't have anything like that, but it's no problem to agree, but the way you set this up will be a problem. You shouldn't have, I think, solved it that way, and that way you can also have a conflict. At the same time, here, when austrougarski was mentioned, I still have to stay on my field, that work was when Austro-austrougarski was doing it in 1880, it was working 1 to 6,250, with no height difference. Mr. Terzić knows what I'm talking about. So it was for military purposes, for an interest that was at the time, first of all military. So let's make Mr. Terzić and I a digital form and after and after imposing the law on land 37 books, legal certainty and everything that comes out of it, that's something to push austrougarski-Hungarian aside. It was done in the XIX century and I think we have our brains and that we can do better than Austro-austrougarski did. So here we have one situation that we don't have financial resources, you know. We are obliged when we pass the law to stress what financial resources these are and then we say this law to be implemented, again the word, we realize then we come into a situation that we must clearly say that we are planning to do so in the budget and thus we are saying that we are seriously approaching the problem. We have one side of the law that we impose or we adopt, and the question of realisation, we simply don't put on the agenda, and it's unserious. The laws must be supported by the public, by citizens. In this case, I am not talking about this in particular but the second principle is, problematic and, above all, the Council of Ministers would have to take care of it as an operational body. So, here you have the same, I don't know, I mean troubled deadlines, you need to pass the internal organization rule within 30 days. You have a problem objective space, when, the way you're going to do it, it would hurt to do it as soon as possible, but I'm saying that's the same little problem, but you're going to do it operationally. I think that even in the very explanation of the proposed legal solutions you said, you highlighted the national structure of the population and that is not the problem, but I think it was necessary to highlight, take into account constitutional amendments and mention at least the order of others. I think the minister may be a Jevrej, or some other nationality of Roma, or it doesn't matter, so it's already intruding into those human rights. Therefore, if we talk about constitutional amendments, and we need to make a law that has full harmony. So, with the Constitution, with the Law of Expensive Administration, and in such a way as to simply do so, taking care of everything. I don't think that's where it's been taken care of. I end this part when we talk about that political will it is important in Parliament, it is important in life as well. It is not disputed here that political parties participated and worked as Mr. Chairman Terzić said, but at the same time, let's make it a lesson. It's not a problem to do that. It's not a problem for OHR to give the initiative and it's supposed to be seen as an initiative, not something that we're afraid of here and we can't change. As far as I know, I'm experiencing as an initiative, which has come to the Council of Ministers, and you've significantly searched it, so to speak, and you've changed a lot, and we've got something that's your work, and that's positive. You've used the business opportunity to go along with Article 105 of the emergency procedure, and I think this debate also gives the right that it might have been better if it had gone according to Article 104, and we could still come up with these solutions, and maybe the amendment would have improved, because MPs, too, are those people who can, who know that, whose jurisdiction it is. In this case, in this second phase, the procedure is a lack of amendment intervention, such as the lack of commission work related to this important law. So let's say some combination. The minister's advice did its job, he did part of it, but in the other part it was practically missing. It would be good to close that round of procedures in the future and do something and end this, to remind you, you know that well, we are a member of the Council of Europe. We send the delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly and don't let anyone humiliate us in this parliament as a member of the Council of Europe and that we have any guardian or anyone who will ultimately give us any legal solutions, because you yourself said that we would take fate into our own hands, when you emphasized it, you only read the position and the opposition wrote. That's good. But somehow you've been silent and that word of opposition and position means that together we take fate into our own hands and look together for these solutions. In this case, I think we do have this shadow that kind of humiliates us in this House. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7337	The chairman of the Council of Ministers has to leave for 30 minutes because he has an urgent meeting, so that is the reason for this brief communication between you ladies and gentlemen MPs between me and the chairman. Mr. Kunić Petar, may Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7338	Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I would take the opportunity to say about this law a few sentences, but I cannot go over some of the facts that happened in the meantime, which is the declaration of criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I think it is beneficial for all of us to stop with such practice in BiH. I think it is indeed in the best interests of all. That is why it is likely that more wisdom is needed, more listening to the speakers and more respecting the interests of various different interests that exist in BiH. With that in mind, this law is also very important, it's very important, it's a system law and I wouldn't be in favour of things going that way, if this law were declared, too, to be declared high representative. I have a feeling since I've been in this House that there are certain forces pushing things, some questions to the High Representative to declare if I can't achieve my goals through some legislative acts. I fully agree with Mr. Lozančić, who today warned at the beginning of one thing, which is to preserve the dignity of this House. I must say that I feel miserable, even frustrating when I hear that a law has been declared, which has been debated in this House, and the question of being our MPs is whether we will come here to receive salaries, to leave and someone else will pass laws. This is a serious question, and I think that this issue should be devoted to attention, probably taking a stand in this House, because it is the most appropriate thing to do about it so that such things don't happen. Of course, when discussions are heard, there are different approaches that arise from different interests. Some in their discussions, I will not go to the adpersonal, come from the fact that they have not read the BiH Constitution. Fully abandoning the constitutional concept that BiH is a specific state, not to say the state union, because the state union is the same state, I say to Mr Belkić, a specific community and these specificities must be respected. When we begin to respect these specificities, we will likely be able to make important decisions here. Of course, first of all, respect each other's interests in the first place and conduct dialogue rather than monologue, and it seems to me that the lead monologue is starting from its position, second position, the position of the partner doesn't matter at all. Eight years have passed since that accident, so the same things have almost happened in Parliament. That's the facts. This is where I heard discussions about legality and efficiency. This law fails, does not provide legality and efficiency in work, the most important people for this matter are professional, competent to do their jobs. The law does not prevent the achievement of degree and efficiency in work and legality. You know, in a postgraduate study when I was then a professor told me so you see self-management works perfectly in Slovenia, you see how it doesn't work in Croatia, how it doesn't work in BiH, because people are other mentality. So here we need to look for some elements not all of them in the noromatic-legal framework. Of course I don't appreciate it, because I'm a normist, I don't appreciate the normative-legal framework. It creates a base for 39 system functions, system institutions. A question of responsibility within that structure of the state administration. Well, there is a responsibility. Independent administrative organisations and primary organisations in the form of ministries differ. We have to say that it's one of the new ones when you write wordologically normatively legally, because they're usually non-permanent management organisations, so-called. Republic administrations, and primary organizations, they are legal entities and have their own jury account. It looks nice here, but they're mostly professional and primary organizations. Why the expert? Because they can make a profit in market relations. So, to run certain analyses, they make certain projects, etc., not only to finance from the budget. So here it is with this proposal that it is not intended to do so, but it does not bother, it does not prevent the process of the work of administrative organisations from taking place in this way. Mr. Križanović, here I have to go now because he inspired me to say something, a question of education, science, culture, sports, social policy. I think it's in this ministry law given exactly as the Constitution has set it. Nothing more or less. We know that there is an exclusive division of competence within BiH institutions and entities, so-called A mixed jurisdiction. A mixed jurisdiction is a common jurisdiction where BiH institutions are and where entities are, and exclusively a division or belongs to entities or belongs to BiH institutions, it is clear. I don't think we should talk about it. The road, it's mixed here in this law, and if we were to look at the matter in shades, then there's a seduction of jurisdiction here from the entity. He's got jurisdiction, and taking jurisdiction requires a special procedure. You know what the procedure is. There's no need to bother you with that. Therefore, the law has, absolutely, shortcomings, absolute inadequacy. There is one good side, which still opens up the possibility of opening institutions that are proposed, i.e. creating conditions for their work for their functioning, but certainly in the adoption of these laws should have, first of all, the constitutional concept, the division of competence, the jurisdiction of entities, the jurisdiction of the joint institutions. And finally, I think that the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure, the application of Articles 104 and 105, should be done with this. I think we need to put this Parliament in place to discuss legal projects, not to put ourselves in a position to accept legal projects, laws like this. I think it should be a method of work. Exceptions must not become rules in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7339	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mirsad Ćeman, and be prepared Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7340	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and colleagues of this House, here today has been completed by the Council of Ministers by confirming the appointments that were recently carried out and thus, of course, created and ensured the assumptions that the Council of Ministers, within its powers, is working as a team within the complete composition. This is why it cannot be taken differently except as a responsible act when the Council of Ministers proposes one organisational law, so that on matters of jurisdiction and other issues, they know how and what to do, in addition to those general declarations and principles that we have in the Constitution. From that point of view, however, it is welcome to offer offers relatively quickly by the Council of Ministers of one text of the ministry law. 40 From the other aging concern about the effectiveness of the Council of Ministers is not only on the Council of Ministers because it also corresponds to this House, namely this House, and therefore to the creation of the assumption that the Council of Ministers is working quickly, efficiently, qualitatively, etc. is our responsibility. In this context, our responsibility is reflected in whether or not we will adopt an offer, which contains solutions that in some respects may not be in some respects, etc. In some respects, it is now going to provide assumptions for the Council of Ministers that it is working effectively and in some it may not. So, therefore, with a full sense of responsibility for the authority of this home, if at this stage, although many have entered the measure, whether at this stage it is a matter or not, in Article 105, and if it is by system take it or leave it, to be honest, I would rather leave something here, because there are things that should simply be made better, both from the organisational aspect and from the constitutional-law aspect. Since, therefore, this dilemma has yet to be resolved, I would be inclined to point out only one fact, and that is that, especially when it comes to the famous Article 29 and what it does, and it relates to some other solutions under this law, it seems to me, even if such a solution is very questionable from the aspect of the provision of Article 4. Annex II to Annex IV, or the Constitution of BiH, which says certain institutions will work until they replace others, etc. So, that I'm not going in, and if, indeed, I could, in the text itself, actually conclude that there are a lot of good solutions here and that are a significant step in relation to what we've had so far. So, in order not to enter these other solutions, if there is an opportunity on the side of the promoter to think about what has been said so far and to bring both Parliament and the Council of Ministers, within their rights and responsibilities, into a position that they can amend the text of the law, would be the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7341	Mr. Lagumdžija Zlatko. Have Mr. Paravac Borislav prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7342	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, I think that it is already slightly matured in the opinion of the people, or part of the people of the parliamentary majority, that this law, the adoption of this law by Article 105, which, although we are told at the outset, is not so, but it is known by the people's name here as a member of the "take or leave", is, however, matures the opinion that if we took this, we would regret not leaving it and that this law has a lot of shortcomings to be refined and I think we have two options. One possibility that my colleague, Ćeman, spoke of, agreed to follow Article 104 or that, eventually, after this debate today, which had a lot of concrete suggestions, and I would be more specific in the debate in the principles. To listen and respect what is said today and there is no reason for us to have a continuation of this session, or a new session, at which, if they are prepared under Article 105 to respect this, to be in accordance with Article 105, and to have the ministry law within a few days, instead of Article 104, which, without regard to what it sets, we will again come to the conclusion that about twenty days we need to get to the law. So, Article 104 means that instead of some 40 just a little more than a month's worth of time, if you're willing to listen to what's happened today and what's still going to happen, think about calling a new session if you're back in article 105 if you do what you think is correct to adopt it then. 41 I must also say that my colleague Križanović has expressed the principles of our club, but I am taking the opportunity to, because of the way we are working today, say a few concrete suggestions, which, I hope, will be useful to the promoter, in the hope that we will not adopt this today, because I repeat once again, the adoption of this law today by the member would mean turning back a few steps, although by setting up a law on the Council of Ministers, under which this Council of Ministers has been established a step forward. There's no reason for that step forward to follow a few steps back. I am responsible and only a few illustrations to give, not only an illustration but also a proposal to resolve what I give as an illustration. I agree with the chairman who has better things to do now that those from Dejton are responsible to this day who have not laid down an adequate law on the Council of Ministers as one to whom they seek. I believe that in seven years, someone else will be the chairman and will say that fourteen years ago or seven years ago we passed a law on the Council of Ministers that we have today we would be a normal country and I fully agree with that. On the question, however. Why hasn't things been solved in seven years, when it comes to the entanglements that are mentioned here, unfortunately not all of them? I'm afraid this is the worst solution. For seven years, it was not resolved, and that function was maintained and existed and people were doing so. Now it's going to be settled by abolishing it. You'll allow it to be the worst possible solution. Then it's better to keep it unsettled than to get who's to be solved by ending it, because we're going to bring in another one. What scared me a little bit, but as the matter moves away, the discussion, it shows that, however, there is a purpose to talk in this House and that the discussion may result in a change of attitudes, it has been a demanding fact for me that the Council of Ministers has had a consensus here with all the deputies, although the deputies do not take part in it. The demand that such a law may be consensual. It scared the hell out of me when I realized that the College had a consensus with them. About this law. At first, it was said that there was a consensus, there was a consensus on Article 105. You know what there was a consensus under Article 105. We heard the other day.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7343	Consensus in the College, if there is a consensus in the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija is said to be. The law wasn't in college. That's two very different things. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7344	Okay, so you've delegated your consensus to them as something that's only in itself normal if there's a consensus between them. All right. That's your thing. I don't argue that's possible. This law goes significantly beneath what we've had so far. What do I suggest? What do I suggest? Already at the very beginning of the law, when members of 8th and beyond are given jurisdiction to individual ministries, I fear that there are things in this text, which, conditionally speaking, do not belong to the same set of values. For example, the foreign ministry has so far, under existing law, which no longer applies, but according to which the foreign ministry's functions have been defined, it has been said that the foreign ministry is responsible for implementing the foreign policy under the presidency's global leadership and is negotiating 42 agreements and contracts, so far it has stood. These two sentences have been replaced by a number of jobs, in which, among other things, the foreign ministry is expected to report to the BiH Parliament, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and some other elements are obliged by the Foreign Ministry to report, for example, the Presidency and not the Council of Ministers in whose part it works, and let alone God's Parliament. You can look at the 5th or indent 3 below in Article 8, right, excuse me, last and bottom four indents. Then you can see here that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been given jurisdiction to monitor international economic movements and relations, which is good. But not only economically, it should follow other movements and other relationships. If these economic relations were not counted, then there would be no need to pick up these others, but when economic relations are numbered, then, however, the foreign ministry is not the foreign economy ministry in this country. I just listed this as an illustration. Also, I have to say that this is a little embarrassing to me for one simple reason that I have already seen that there are a lot of forests on the link between the Presidency, Prlment and the Council of Ministers, when it comes to this area, the more certain members of the Presidency have been calling for the former foreign minister for two months to stop the appointment of ambassadors that he has never been in the description of jobs and tasks, which is why, however, we have a lot of ignorance of the matter you are in charge of. I'm also interested in one principle issue, I'm going to talk about what agencies, offices, directorates, which are legally resolved and which are missing, but the question is why some institutions, I'm going to set an example, such as the Communications Regulatory Agency, which may not be part of any ministry. It is possible not to be an administrative organisation either, because it is not, it is regulated by a special law, but there must be an answer here to the question of who is the communication point between the Council of Ministers and the Telecommunications Regulatory Agency. The Energy Regulatory Agency will appear tomorrow. We need to know which ministry, I'm not going to say is the head of that agency, because no one is the head of that agency, especially at the Council of Ministers level, but those parts of the Council of Ministers, who communicate with them, must be known. What also surprised me a little bit, I expected in this law that there would be a little more words about customs and about the tax on extra value and that this thing would be more precisely defined here. Why isn't that done, I hope we get an answer for something like that. You can also see that, for example, at the Justice Ministry, it is very clear that it is responsible as the first indent in Article 13 that it is both responsible and relevant for administrative functions related to judicial authorities at the national level. If we accept that logic, and I agree that this logic should be accepted, so that it is known that the Ministry of Justice is tasked tomorrow to monitor reform, the judiciary, that document, let's call it justice. Then, I suppose, and I think it would be good to say now, is it the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or is it the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, I suppose, that analogy is very simple, to determine which of these two ministries, such as the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for administrative functions related to judicial authorities at the state level, so the competent ministry should be relevant to administrative functions related to customs at the state level, i.e. tax reform at the state level. I'm saying that because it's not something that's ahead of us in some distant future, but a journalist has asked me now whether on February 19th, I think 43 will achieve all consent, which means VAT and customs, which means in about 15 days we'll know where it's going. In other words, in this law we need to have adequate consistency at the level of Article 13 that I accept as a basis that this indent is correctly done, that such a indent should exist for other segments, such as customs or VAT. What surprised me here, I thought it was a mistake. In the Ministry of Communications and Transport, it is relevant, and it fits what is relevant, I remind you that in the Council of Ministers and ministries law, which was therefore one law, which we now have two in April 2000, so when SDA, HDZ, SDS was when they passed the law, because they had a majority at the time. Under the law, the ministries are very empowered to list the functions of individual ministries and, among other things, what is good is that these functions are now listed in more detail, more likely because there are now more, but interestingly that in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in the former Article 44 of the Law, functions have been counted, among other things frequency control has been said. Interestingly, there's no frequency control anywhere here, and there are more serious things and much more detailed things. It does not occur to me that I am now making a causal intervening link between the lack of frequency control in this law and the scandal over Eronet and the entire almatian over it, of BiH-level telecommunications, with the help of domestic and international ones, as it is said, of foreign occupiers and domestic traitors, I have no idea that I am making any causal intervening links between the two, but objectively in one such law, there is one important segment called frequency control. Is that in law meant to be in article 11. I don't know a colleague of Džaferović. Also, I couldn't find here what happened to the Deposit Insurance Agency, or the Banking Agency, which is formed and which is in Banja Luka, it seems to me, it was supposed to be, I suppose, here related to some ministry, in the way that it's tied to others. Also, I believe that the issue of the Permanent Military Committee is something that could have found places, if anything at the level, so to speak, of the authority of a particular ministry to be the focal point towards the Standing Military Committee. I'm not saying that's the solution. I have my own position and we have him in those discussions, which Mr. Terzić mentioned in the OHR. We suggested there was a Ministry of Defense. All right. Two days ago, or three Brussels at the Peace Implementation Council, the Standing Military Committee was presented as something that should be in close contact with the Council of Ministers and as I could see the chairman of the Permanent Military Committee calling for meetings of the Council of Ministers, which means that such a thing could be, as far as possible, resolved. Is there a problem with Mr. Džaferović? Did you want to ask me something, I see something persistent, so there's no deadline here, as far as I know when it goes from a member to a member of that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7345	I didn't tell you anything, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7346	I thought you wanted to ask me something, you kept trying to tell me something, so I thought it wasn't something. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7347	Bog forbid, I didn't tell you anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7348	Okay. All right. Let me come to the 19th and beyond. What got me a little confused is, the paper that we got on the table now that we're sitting here saying for technical reasons in Article 20 has been released: and then here stands the minister's position for his work and the situation in the areas, which are in part the work of the ministry responsible to the BiH Council of Ministers. Look, I realized, correct me if I'm wrong, that in the material that we've received, which is either kissed or left behind, take or leave out, that there's an attitude 2 in it that reads as I quote. Look, the fact that we've been delivered the text and that one position has been left out, this is how this law disqualifies that this entity discusses it by Article 105 more than this attitude, to be clear, is not a technical thing and this is if it's dropped, then we can hardly talk about it being released without any intention. In fact, a principle question is being asked here, and it is good that we are told that this attitude has been omitted because we should also be told what it means when this attitude is inserted. Here's the drop. He's all right. Be careful, the Minister is responsible for his work to the Council of Ministers. Ah, ha. It is named chairman of the Council of Ministers under the law we now have. Under the same law, ministers and deputies resign, if they wish to, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So he appoints them. He's being resigned, they're not responsible. If this hadn't been dropped, I would have thought this would have been meant if it hadn't been for the way it was dropped here. So this is about one attitude, which with full respect. Okay, you'll get a chance to answer this. Also, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry there is no Chairman Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7349	There's a chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7350	I meant Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7351	Oh, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7352	Here in Article 20. Listen, this is a very interesting member who's dropped attitude 2. Article 20 introduces the first position, which is a direct step back from the Council of Ministers' Law. I'm not gonna say a step back, I'm gonna say a few steps back. It reads here, quotes: "The ministry is run by the minister in co-operation with the deputy minister and secretary in the ministry". So now there are no ministers of the two deputies, but the minister has the deputy and secretary of the ministry with which he heads together. This is in direct contrast with Articles 7 and 8. The Council of Ministers Act, because it is very clear here that the minister is the one who heads the ministry, that his deputy, as set out in Article 7(3), replaces the minister in the event of his absence and the minister can give him the vote for him, if he has confidence and is not at the Council of Ministers' meeting. It's in the Council of Ministers' Law. We 45 in this way reintroduce Article 20 to the Minister with our two commissioners, the fact that the secretary of the ministry is not a man appointed by the same body appointed by the Minister and Deputy, but is a secretary of the ministry, to remind you, a man appointed under the State Service Act, in accordance with Article 8. The Council of Ministers Act and it is subject to completely other criteria and its powers are very clearly defined. What it all means together. This all means, that one of these, the introduction of such a member of the 20th release, the possible attitudes and the giving of these views. This is by itself a reason enough to lead a more serious rash, which is more to remind you that in Article 6. The Council of Ministers Act is very clearly said that the minister, pardoned ministers, as well as deputy ministers, i.e. the Secretary-General, that among them it is guaranteed to be one man in the order of others, making it very clear that the Secretary-General will be someone from the order of others, which I do not dispute, but that Secretary-General of the Ministry Act is not named at all in any way, which would define his relationship with other ministries, which I also think should stand. I'd also like to ask a question. Are some of these institutions, which have been put in place, such as the State Border Service, especially regulatory agencies, if we choose to put them into this. Are the specific views of members of the 21st law in contrast, let's say by a law that defines the formation of the State Border Service. I think the direct member is the attitude of the 3rd member of the 21st in direct, as Beriz Belkić nods my colleague. I'm convinced that's true, now I'm not asking any more apologies. I also don't understand why and for what reasons I'm going to bring this all together to an end, it's Article 29 that these institutions are being abolished and that solves their problem seven years old, and then by Article 30 as a sort of temporary cold lining, the Council of Ministers undertakes that within 60 days, be careful, to initiate a procedure to define these issues. If there is already a good will, and I don't believe that it does not exist, then why don't this principle of Article 29 and 30 conspired and let's say that these delusions that theirs, that they will be abolished, after the process in Article 30 has ended? In other words, I think here when it comes to members of 29th and 30th, we're playing with far more serious things than we should today. It's perfectly natural that I cut my discussion short. Yeah. Shorten for one simple reason, which such a law that is before us takes much, much more serious work, time, mutual listening, to hear one another and to refine our own things a little before we take a few steps back, after we take one step forward. I, indeed, urge you fellow Members of Parliament, who belong to the parliamentary majority, not to accept a consensus in the Council of Ministers is the same consensus among you. I appeal to you. Not to adopt this law today, as given by Article 105 here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7353	Are you finished, Mr. Lagumdžija?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7354	I see you to me...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7355	May I have your attention, please? 46
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7356	Unfortunately, I've heard it every time I'm surprised again, and I'll stop wondering if we're from the SDS bench telling you, we'll adopt it for free. All right. Let's adopt. Good luck to you, and Bog help us all when you adopt this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7357	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. I would ask the MPs, indeed, it is true that the duration of the discussion with the Rules of Procedure is not limited and I have no right to intervene, except at the beginning of the session to say, use one right that exists here in the Rules of Procedure, and I therefore do not restrict the sent ones in the discussions, and therefore I appeal, because I think all that has been said. So far in discussions could be said in much shorter time. We're wasting our time. I ask you to speak briefly, clearly, because I think what you need to say can be said in much, much less time than we've done so far. After Mr. Lagumdžija, Niko Lozančić asked for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7358	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have a need to replicate a whole series of envoys, because I have the impression that I am often not even sure and I don't know how certain many debaters are when they're discussing this point that we're discussing today. Many times it was about the Council of Ministers' Law, as I understood the debaters, and today we only have a request from the Council of Ministers to discuss the ministry law. But, thinking about it or not, I have to say that first of all I reacted because we were from this pay phone being a fright of our representatives, a falsification of the Bosnian Herzegovina public, a fright about how this would be a disaster, if we God forbid to adopt this law and fear that everything would go wrong if we didn't postpone it and we don't divorce this law in some future period. I want to point out very clearly. This law is not perfect for me, and I said in the first presentation, but it's much better than the solution so far. This law is going towards reforming the Council of Ministers, not perfectly, but it is going towards reforming the Council of Ministers and let's define ourselves when we speak and when we talk about reforms to try and make decisions in this Parliament and through the adoption of laws in this House, not just rhetorically. Many have spent two years and talking about reforms, so when they had so many good ideas, I'm surprised that in this reform period they didn't pass the perfect law on the Council of Ministers and the law on ministries, because they had every assumption that they were doing it, but for some reason, apparently, as Mr Lagumdžija said, there are things that haven't been solved in seven years, and if I understand correctly, they don't need to be solved for another seven years, because apparently some unresolved questions are being answered by some means. I am so that this parliament and that BiH institutions are solving problems. There's no one else. Until we start solving our problems, the OHR or someone else will solve them for us and we'll be moaning here for our dignity and for the first to make decisions here. So, I think that at this point, however, we have reason to support this law under article 105 and, following all the exposures so far, the fundamental grudges or the most huge objections are in the power of the Ministry of Security and through Article 29, which defines that certain bodies stop working. 47 At one of his last sessions or last discussions on the initiative launched by the HDZ Club, which supported the signatures of its 10-15 deputies on the emergency session on the security situation, and we heard that it is very difficult at this moment for Parliament to come up with information on the situation, because it is very questionable who, when and with whom to offer this Parliament this information and talk about strengthening BiH institutions, when we define, within one ministry, the tasks that are naturally in the context of this description of business and within that ministry, we find it problematic. Then we would be so diluted that we would make one ten administrative organizations, which would be enough for themselves and which the minister, regardless of who he was, would have to make correspondence with them for days, etc. to deliver certain solutions to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7359	Replica Niko for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7360	This is all a replica of exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7361	But three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7362	I'll cut it short. So, I want to tell all those in favour of more statehood that BiH will be no more states if we have another hundred administrative organisations. I was one of those who participated in the OHR, on behalf of my party, and on the Council of Ministers' Law and Ministry Law. A member of the Council of Ministers was startled by me at the time, but I'm not surprised now, because he said no one in this country knows the list, the exact list of administrative organisations, that there's nowhere to be defined as the administrative organizations that we have in this country. How are we supposed to manage that system? Who's going to manage it? Who's going to take responsibility for that? It is not a solution to increasing the number of administrative organisations. For me, the solution is, I said, it's not perfect, but we have to have institutions, the government, the Council of Ministers, I'm not happy that it's called the Council of Ministers, but it's called the Council of Ministers. We have a government that will control the situation and that will suit us. So, to us here first and then to the citizens through us in BiH. We must also bear in mind that what is important to me in all this, that this bill has arrived here as a consensus of the Council of Ministers. I know it wasn't easy to reach the consensus. Returning this to further procedure, we'll open a whole series of questions. If we can get to the consensus again and on what and what solutions it will be to have, to keep an eye on each other when we determine whether we want to do it one way or the other. Furthermore, we must have, we must take care, and I must say that I particularly liked one of the few discussions on which I do not replicate Mr Kunić's debate, when he mentioned that we, however, must take care of the constitutional and legal structure of BiH and that the issue of more or less statehood of BiH, we can handle certain laws, that is, above all, constitutional matter and I will be happy and I believe many of you when the debate on the Constitution of BiH opens and when more statehood is ensured by the Constitution of BiH and all its institutions, but until then we must make sure that this law is also an expression of the existing political 48 will and that it is maximum at this point that, surely, it will ensure a much greater functionality of the Council of Ministers than it has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7363	Mr. Lozančić, I didn't want to interrupt you twice, this was supposed to be a three-minute replica, and you've been discussing more than three minutes, practically it's a discussion. He answered the line, Mr. Belkić. But, Mr. Belkić, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Lagumdžija has an answer to this replica a minute after that, you have a replica. Mr. Lagumdžija, please. I know, all MPs are right. Open the Rules of Procedure and read.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7364	First of all, Mr. Chairman, I don't know how you found that minute for me, you gave me so well and so much. I fully understand that you are weak today on Mr. Lozančić because he is leaving Parliament, because a man has been elected president of the Federation and I wish him luck on his new duty and that is why more is to be given to him to suck up a little longer and to violate this Rules of Procedure. I asked everyone who would take a step back to the pay phone after this presentation. After the introduction of today's session itself, when you gave us a lecture on dignity, I took it all from you, which they say somehow, your gratis was from me, because you still won't be in your earphone until the end of the term in this paragraph in the function in which you are now. I repeat once again, it will be bad if such a law is passed under Article 105, but I want to correct what you said, I didn't say it. I didn't say seven more years shouldn't be solved. I'm just saying, if this hasn't been solved for seven years, and he's thinking about getting rid of it by ending it, then it's better not to get rid of it anymore. So, I didn't say I don't think this should be solved, but the worst way to solve this issue is to end it, we'll see. Otherwise, I'm distracting you one more time. I respect the institutions, I respect the institutions of the Council of Ministers and this parliament and, at first, I will not allow you without my vote and without at least trying a democratic struggle, you do everything you intend and even if those are steps back. So very clear and precise. You can cut me down for minutes, seconds, share more time, but I don't think that's going anywhere, and I also want to tell you that the fact that the Ministry of the Council didn't provide us with information on the security situation, and that's because we don't have a ministry law, that's the least said inconclusive.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7365	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Let me just give you a quick answer, since you called me back. I believe you're a permeable man, but don't think so much of yourself and see who I'm sensitive to or weak to, it's really too much. So much for me. Mr. Belkić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7366	I really don't want to contribute to replicas, etc. but I feel the need to clarify some things, a team before, because at the end of my discussion Mr. Loaznčić said that everything applies to the replica, except for Mr. Kunić, if I understood, so I was, however, right about why I'm answering. If you remember, I am on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club and suggested, understanding that this is under suspicious circumstances when it comes to... giving the Council of Ministers a chance to consider whether, the reasons I later stated, and the reasons are basic, 49 therefore, in our opinion, this law derogates the existing level of the network of institutions that lead us to the Council of Europe and introduce us into the network of institutions worldwide etc. And the consistency that's getting stronger. I'll take the opportunity and two initiatives to give. Since constitutionality, constitutionality, is constantly heard here, and there is no need for life to be talked about what this country needs. It is true that the BiH Constitution does not explicitly say we need it and there is a Health Protection Institute. And do we need it? It should be, of course, because without a state institution for that area, we cannot connect to a network of health organizations in the world. I am launching the initiative and I am asking the BiH Presidency to call urgently for a co-ordination meeting, that entity authorities are making known about these things, which we have been discussing here for days whether the constitutional basis is or not a constitutional basis or not a constitutional basis. Let the public say what this country needs or doesn't need. I hope it is in accordance with the Constitution and that it can be arranged. Another thing, when it comes to consistency, Mr. Lozančić says no one can list the number of administrative organisations, etc. Gentlemen, there is an initiative and a request from the BiH Presidency to the Council of Ministers to finally approach the development of a system law, once called a law on the foundations of a state administration system in BiH, which solves the horizontal and vertical relationship of the governing body, determines their positions, etc. Here is the opportunity to address these two issues of consistency and constitutional problem that is constantly being highlighted here in this House, and the need for this more expensive and commitment to want to join the Partnership for Peace, to want to join world organisations, which can help us and simply cloud the reality and life of this theoretical disorder. Here's the opportunity, gentlemen, the Presidency, the entity government, please tell us what this country needs and what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7367	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Paravac has a word. Let Mr Jusufović Munib prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7368	Honourable MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to give my opinion on this law, assessing that he is, that he is going by emergency procedure and that he is made up in haste. It is full of mistakes, both formal nature and those of material essential nature. Let's just start with a member of the first law to say, "This is a law to set up ministries." I don't think this law establishes the ministries, because to establish the ministries, I think this session would last seven days. They've already been established in some other law, so I think maybe it should be changed in some way in the next period. I have a fundamental objection to Article 9 which is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the jurisdiction of this ministry. If you look at the previous law, you will see that this law covers only the first five indents and they are in line with the provisions of Article 3-1, it is within the authority of the BiH institutions to regulate this area. However, someone remembered to add economic relations to this name and then, under these economic relations, we listed a number of jobs here and made this ministry a BiH Ministry of Economy, which is certainly not in charge and that is some of our fundamental remarks. I think it can be corrected, certainly by further disputed constitutional jurisdiction, because I do not deny that it can, but only with the consent of the entity is not the problem. 50 Therefore, let us immediately say that for the application of these provisions, namely these indents, we will have to have the consent of the entities. I cannot agree with the description of the financial ministry's affairs, that the country's new debt policy and abroad, on the occasion that it is the relevant Ministry of Finance. We know very well who leads the policy of responsibilities and how the responsibilities are made and how the turrets are under all these responsibilities. The two ministries that are problematic from the point of view of Article 3(1) in terms of BiH level competence are certainly the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security, at least as far as we are concerned by the RS. And I think there will be the most difficulty in applying and operating these two ministries. I wouldn't be talking about the Department of Security right now. There are many things undefined, but I am surprised why this law does not mention it, but it is also some administrative organisation, which is mentioned in the Law on the Council of Ministers' Office of Law, in which it is said that they will, on occasion, give consent to certain decisions, to certain regulations, which in this law is given to the Ministry of Justice, I think it is not principled. If it weren't for the Minister's consensus and it wasn't an emergency for the law to be passed, I would have stayed in the regular procedure for a long time to get it in place, I would never have voted for this law. This is how I feel like the one in that folk story, if I vote I'll regret it, if I don't vote I'll regret it, and I sincerely hope that we have wisdom and that we'll find a consensus again that some of the shortcomings in this law will be removed in the next period. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7369	I thank Mr. Paravac. Jusufović and let Mrs Palavrić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7370	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ministers, media representatives, given that time is moving significantly, and we are still at this point, which is, in truth, important, complex, because it is a system law, which regulates such important issues, and which concern the most vital and vital issues of the functioning of the BiH state and its most vital functions, and therefore there is no need to blame what so many participants are talking about today and the truth can be said that today the debate was extremely principled and could be aware of the opportunity of the next, a complete debate could be taken to the next. All those who performed today, who gave their opinions, truly wanted this law to be passed. So there's no difference. That's where we all agree. The goal is unique to welcome this initiative by the Council of Ministers to pass a law that is necessary, and which, again, I must repeat, is very important and important issues. That's where we all agree. The truth to that end exists several times. It is, some believe that it should be done immediately today, by the procedure of Article 105 of the emergency procedure, which means that, but nothing at all, and if we realize that something is wrong cannot be changed, because there is some complex, some fear, and we hear it in the halls, and if we know it's no good here, but if we don't do it it will be imposed, so today we hear again two different groups, one defends heights in this way, another in that way. I belong closer to those that our dignity would be far more preserved that today's cold and calm heads, what we've come to realize, here's the chance I'm going to 51 repeat something my predecessors said, to find a way out of this situation, and that, however, that law is passed. It can be, there are three options for how this law can be passed. It can be done in the way that you suggest that it goes by Article 105, I believe that this is not a wise solution and that it will not do any good to this Council of Ministers, because we will be divided and significantly divided. That'll be a tight majority. There's no need for division issues like this. At least it's a coincidence. The second option is that the proposal was also some to go according to Article 104 to shorten the procedure. The third and here were heard, it seems to me, too, from some of the beforers, that they might be able to keep the emergency procedure, meaning in Article 105, and that today this issue is not over, but that certain things are done, and that we will see what they are and in some way iron, add and shape. What do I have to say? Well, here's wherever, not only today, but also in the work so far, and I've been taking part in parliaments for a long time, so almost everyone, wherever there's something they want to be made at BiH level, immediately someone acts as an offensive defense or you've touched an entity or a Federation doesn't give. For these reasons, I ask the question to this ministerial council, but here there is no governing Council of Ministers, there are ministers, as it happens, whether what I will say on purpose, out of ignorance, out of intent or out of something else, that those issues that are in exclusive jurisdiction and under the exclusive sovereignty of BiH will no one take them, and where they do not run. What's the point? Look, unlike my colleague Avdić, who probably has so far defined this law as in one part of it I agree and in the other part is not well, he seems to have read, where BiH as a state here has been taken as a simple collection of entities and Brcko District. It is, probably in some others, but in this law if you notice the Brcko District is excluded from the jurisdiction of state authorities. He's just mentioned in Article 13 of the Justice Department, and I'll read that. Give guidance and follow-up of legal education in order to ensure inter-entity harmonisation in this area and to comply with best standards. And, secondly, also a passport similar. So wasn't it logical that this piece of land, which, according to the arbitration decision, was directly sovereignty of BiH and colleagues here together with many from RS, knew very well what a decisive battle was being fought that Brcko would first receive such a solution to get out of the entity's jurisdiction. At the end of the day when it's over, here's the Council of Ministers who doesn't know what to do with it, bring him back there, who will. That's the question. But this is an unforgivable mistake. So, these 500 square kilometers that no one has any interference, just to suck themselves under BiH's sovereignty, or just the Council of Ministers to follow, harmonize, you simply left as a piece belonging to someone. The same is true of what I believe to be the intention and representative of the international community, because in the front of it is also the same, it is forgotten that, from which they conclude that they know very well because they have made the district, but they have avoided it here still, which is what the Ministry accepted as an inert. That's one thing. Let's keep you thinking for a while. Similar mistakes are also the rule of the current Council of Ministers, which I warned a number of things about, so they started to make things better. Secondly, from all the raps, we can conclude that it's a member of the 29th I have to tell you, I've been doing something for a few years and in practice from the right that this is the dumbest member I've ever seen. I have to use that expression, too much, and it shouldn't have stood at all, and that's the only solution. It needs to be deleted and, eventually, it can be subdued under Article 30, as well as all these other administrative organizations without being abolished, because the abolition, objectively all of us know very well when something 52 is abolished, especially at the state level, will pass through months until it is established, and here very simply now, here are some of my colleagues who call themselves reformists, very simply abolishing what someone has been tortured for the first years, so if it is not good, then it should be used exactly, here is a member of the 30th substitute alongside these not mentioned and this one, because 5-6 organizations state, administratively, abolish. So do you know how many steps that is back? It is a general step forward that wants to pass a law like this, but here this is a legal conflict. I don't understand why this is someone here. So, in my view, Article 29 of the occasion, many touched Article 29 should not have stood at all, and there would have been a very different issue in voting today, and this is one justifiable remark almost most of them and could not have been respected and re-applyed through some shorter period of emergency procedure. In the end, we were delivered here on the benches of a memo and I, I really wanted to say something like that, and it's going to be my line. It's from the President of the Union, and you all have it. I'm going to say something similar now that it's short, concisely written, and I'm also fully accepting this short sentence now, which states what the message is and the Federation of BiH Trade Unions. This law abolishes many BiH institutions, which are needed by this state. He says you know how much effort it takes to establish some BH institutions when it collapses. I hope you will not accept the law in this form, because this would mean a setback in the construction of BiH's institutions. I believe that the philosophy of destruction must finally cease in BiH, and that all efforts must be focused on building the institutions of the state. I think the message is good, that we can go forward, not by destroying, but by creating a new or existing alignment with the laws that we need today, or in a few days to bring in those next ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7371	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Let's have Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7372	I was hoping I'd be the last. So I didn't. Usually our people say if you can't win, so here I am, so like all my followers, I'm going to talk about everything and not just the procedure under Article 105. Before I say that I believe this law is really an opportunity to show our dignity, the dignity of this home, and to deny the high representative the opportunity for him to do our job again. Why do I say that? For the reason that this is, indeed, a law without which the Council of Ministers cannot work. It just can't work, and we need to be aware of those facts. Mr Špirić said it is unacceptable that this law came before us and that the Council of Ministers session, where the proposal was established, was not completed. I'll remind him of article 19. The law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which implies, or explicitly, decisions by the Council of Ministers were made on the day of adoption at the session. Therefore, no subsequent minutes are required for the proposal set by the Council of Ministers to be valid. In addition to the justification of the proposal, the law is to be considered in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, I'll say next. The fact that this is not a law that is not complex. On the contrary, this is an extremely 53 complex law, and according to that criterion, he could not go under Rule 105. However, the first criterion, which is the urgency is fully met and respected and I think it also had in mind the Council of Ministers, which I can say with pride reached a consensus. For me, it means a lot that the people we elected in the Council of Ministers have succeeded in reaching a consensus on any issue, especially one law, which is a presumption of further work by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Furthermore, we, when we decide on Article 105, and here I am also talking about the essence of the law, must bear in mind the fact that the Council of Ministers Act, which supported six ministries in December, ceased to apply, therefore, on the day of the entry into force of the new law on the Council of Ministers with eight ministers and Prime Ministers, on the right-hand side, the old Council of Ministers law has ceased to apply. I ask you how to get the Council of Ministers to work when we appoint ministers and chairman under the new law and we have no description of the activities by individual ministries. We don't even have ministries under the new Council of Ministers law. So, what about citizens, who have already started administrative proceedings in front of some of the ministries of old, and today, it's been more than a month, no one can work, because we don't know whose jurisdiction is. Remember the arms control law, which implies the consent of the Civil Affairs and Communications Council, the ministry. It's not a ministry anymore, it's two ministries. So whoever filed such a request can't answer it, and now I'm asking. Article 29, and to me it is both controversial and it is not the only member who is controversial, but as Mr Paravac said, we have the Constitutional Court of BiH and everything we consider not to be in accordance with the Constitution, and it stands in this law, we can initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and I believe that it will be, that we will do so. Because those things that have the right to remain at the state level will remain safe and we have ways to take care of it in the next period and without the Constitutional Court I trust our conscience and conscience, if the Council of Ministers could reach a consensus, then I call us even more to account, because we are directly elected by citizens to achieve a consensus in some things. Also, I would like to refer to just some of my predecessors' allegations, so let's say when Mr. Avdić somewhat scoffingly says that the management director for his work will also answer to ministers. It is not fair to single out Article 21's Article 3's position, which previously says that the manager will answer to the one who appoints him, and then says he will respond to the minister, because he does not appoint him a minister. So let's not isolate the pieces, let's not try to make a bad proposal, because it already contains quite a lot of bad solutions. However, with these poor solutions and with objections to the Directorate for European Integration, which are once again unwarranted, because the Directorate was also established by the Council of Ministers Act, not by this law that is before us today. I, however, find it far less of a pity to have a law on the ministries and to allow the Council of Ministers to work, than to try to do a shortened procedure or some kind of regular procedure to achieve something that seems impossible to me right now, just if we went into the most regular procedure. What we want, we want to be voted in this house and the House of the Peoples. So, we have to be prepared to start negotiating ourselves and not wait for all our problems to be solved by the High Representative, and that's why we have to be prepared to compromise, so I believe that no one in this Chamber is satisfied with the text as a whole, no one, but that's why we each have to be willing to compromise and know what's in the way of this country and its citizens. 54 In order not to prolong, I am indeed on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, calling on all the reform parties and forces in this parliament and those who are considered reformal to give their vote for the Proposal for a Law on the Ministry and thus an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to do their job, and repairs to this law are possible if there is good will between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7373	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word. Well, then you'll give me your word, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7374	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed fellow Members, it seems to me that every break produces fruit, including this one, and even frequent exits, seems to serve to explain to those who do not understand what it means to accept the responsibility of being a parliamentary majority and the longer it goes, it seems that the parliamentary majority has decided on the happiness of this country to pass the law. Whether these laws are good or bad, today the right to be told about these laws is what anyone thinks, but what I do not agree with is that I say it publicly for the speaker are those things, which here for the speaker explain the need for a member of the 105th said by the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Terzić, when he said himself and that he does not know and he does not understand what the Directorate for European Integration is for. So different attempts managed to convince the man that it was good and that no one in BiH was satisfied with the work of the directorate when she was a ministry. As I recall, we adopted a report on the work of the ministries and no one gave a negative report on the ministry's work, but in the meantime the former minister first made a forward political career, now the prime minister of Republika Srpska's government. I wouldn't like to say that the man did a bad job if the report was positive. It's not good, it's not friendly, it's not correct. Another thing he said was that there are a number of MPs who have the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina at their hearts and a number that are not in that organ. If he's right, it looks like he's not close to the heart, but he's got different organs, man. Does it make sense? Does it make sense at all that the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina shares MPs on those who are committed to the BiH state and in his sense those who are not. I'd like him to say who they are. So it's not good, it's not good to cultivate such a style and I don't think it contributes to the president's efforts to explain the reasons for urgency. In other words, just take Mr. Terzić's inaugural speech. In that inaugural speech, he wrote publicly and aloud, which I do not dispute, it seems to me that even then I have discussed, that he will personally manage the Directorate for European Integration and that everything will do to manage this directive to restore BiH's fallen reputation in the Islamic world. How he doesn't know what he's going to do now. So it's one of the tasks of the Directorate and it's accepted by the parliamentary majority. What I'm trying to say is that the breaks are good to come and order for a letter. One who can read well, and it seems to me to be the only mistake today, the College, which came to the address of the chairman, divided the MPs at the time of the blizzard, was the parliamentary majority. When it was held out of all discussions that the law was not good, it would not be supported, the Council prayed to postpone, adapt the debate, integrate the amendments, etc. And now I'm taking the opportunity to read to the public about this letter, which may have come at a time of break or after a break. But, please, I want to explain what I think is the purpose of this letter and that this is not good for Parliament, respecting the role of the Trade Unions etc. Dear Mr Džaferović, 55 We are very surprised that for today's session of Parliament, the Council of Ministers Act was included in the agenda, as was proposed in the Draft. Well, a little patience, so I listened to you too, do you know how many times you've repeated yourself, so I'm not anybody...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7375	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7376	No matter how many amendments, where the amendments are. Please, even the law was wrong, but the amendment, I haven't seen any amendments, but I've been listening to the rush today, which means someone was holding a line with the Syndicate, which is not bad, but on a good path to passing the law and not to adopt it. Such a law abolishes the many institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are necessary for this country. You know how much effort it takes to establish some BiH institution when it collapses. I hope you won't accept the law, listen, the law in this form, because this would mean a setback in the construction of BiH's institutions. This sentence is particularly controversial. I believe that the philosophy of destruction must finally cease in BiH, and that all efforts must be focused on building the institutions of the state, and this is good for the SDA to take the position of Serbian MPs. When they vote against the destructives. When they decide to vote for an order letter, they're also destructive. Here's a good thing that today SDA, HDZ and SDS will vote for this bill. I'm my relationship to the law told at the beginning and I don't want to change it. I think the way the Council of Ministers performs not only in this law is humiliating for this Parliament and I am glad today that the debate has been held that everyone could say no. These stories, you know, we'll try, we'll see, we'll hear stories about little kids. So, I congratulate you that most people are willing to adopt, I will vote as I said and I don't think that in the future we should slave, we shouldn't make Parliament do what is not, you can think if Srbin decide next time to call for help to Čedo Volaš, say don't come back if you vote yes or vote against. Come on, please, this isn't good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7377	Thank you. Mr. Novaković's replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7378	My fellow Members, I, indeed allow each of us to build different structures on every member of the law and on every letter. Whose imagination is more developed then can make structures more imaginative, so, really, here they are heard and, here are some very imaginative structures and, of course, I didn't come out to say that SDS didn't order a letter from the Alliance of Independent Unions, because that would be funny, but I came out to say that, indeed, some people have a really vivid imagination. That this exultation of Parliament should come in handy when it's working this long.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7379	The word has the chairman, Mr. Džaferović. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7380	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as you may have noticed so far, it has not been customary for me to take a word for this speaker while they are chairing this house at the same time. I've only done the necessary interventions as chairman. I haven't had a discussion so far, but it seems to me that today's debate and everything that's been going on about this law has been extorted, at first, my address here to your colleagues and members of the Council of Ministers and the others present in this room. First of all, the truth is to tell you that this letter, which was interpreted in its own way and commented by Mr Špirić, brought by an official of the Parliamentary Assembly here to me by the table at the beginning of this break. I have looked at this letter and, by the way, by following one principle in the paper that everything that the chairman gets and refers to Parliament, and that the chairman of this Parliament, as I said this morning, should be seen by the other MPs, and I have told the technical services as well as all other materials, that the material is multiplied and delivered to the MPs, because I believe that this is the way it should be and so we will do when it comes to all the other and all the other materials. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is here at the very beginning of the session, and later on in the debate asked the question of how did the College give consent or gave consensus to the consensus and what was actually going on, so here, so now I want to explain what I said this morning at the beginning of the session in my discussion. I then said as a member of the College, that's what the other members of the College said, but let them talk about it. I am speaking for myself now, that as far as I'm concerned, I will support the procedure under Article 105 if the Council of Ministers gets here and that the Council of Ministers adopted it by consensus. Back in the few months, I am a member of the working groups, or at least as a representative of the political party, who has delegated me here to the OHR and to draft the Council of Ministers and Ministry Law. I know what can be achieved as a political as a political will, what can be achieved as a political will at this time in BiH, and I know what kind of solutions have arrived as a draft from the OHR, and that's what I had in mind, considering that the Council of Ministers, and it has proved that what has come from the OHR has, in fact, practically preserved, and on this condition, I have not said in my mind that I am ready to accept the procedure under Article 105 of this law as an MP. If only I were touching in BiH or only the Democratic Party, the law and this council of ministers would probably look very different. We'd have a state government, which would be 16-17-18 and maybe 20 ministries, and that would be, now if I didn't talk, and I think it's in the interest of all the citizens of this country. Unfortunately, it's not enough to have a Council of Ministers law and to pass laws. The constitutional constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is as it is and that constitutional constitution is, here in this paragraph. We need to find a solution and that BiH has a law on ministries. This law that we have now, first and foremost this council of ministers, is a step forward in relation to the former Council of Ministers on its organisation, on its efficiency and on its functionality. When I came to the House of People of the State Parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in April 2000, the first thing that welcomed me was to vote in favour of the Council of Ministers' Law. Until then, until April 2000. For 57 years, Bosnia and Herzegovina had three ministries. The Council of Ministers had 3 ministries, 3 ministers, 3 members of the Council of Ministers. Then in 2000, it was six ministers, or six ministries. Today in 2003, it is 8 ministries and the chairman of the Council of Ministers that is not being rotated. So nine members of the Council of Ministers. This is, therefore, I think it is simply necessary to pass one evolutionary path in the development of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and here I have just set two examples for you to show that this path is going forward. In the previous session, we had a rotating Council of Ministers chairmanship, and now we have a non-rotating four-year term as chairman of the Council of Ministers. I feel that although I have a lot of grudges against this law, a lot of regrets that at this point it was not possible to pass a better law, which is very important to me that this law corresponds to the draft and to that text that came from the OHR from the Office of the High Representative, which is the result of the talks of political parties led before the OHR. And I want to talk about one more thing very briefly. I believe this law does not remove the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you to read Article 29 carefully. Article 29 states: "According to the provisions of this law, the authorities of the administration established before the adoption of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Institute for Health Protection, the Employment, the Institute for International Scientific, Technical, Educational and Sport Cooperation, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural History and Natural Heritage, the Institute for Geodetic Affairs, the Meteorological Institute and the Institute for Geology shall cease to work" and will now follow the text that no one mentions. And their jobs are being transferred to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the provisions of Articles 8 and 15 of this Law, and these members are regulating the issue of jurisdiction of these two ministries. In Article 15. Just a little attention, as a member, I've been listening to you all day, and you listen to me very briefly. Article 15 states that the Ministry of Civil Affairs, therefore, is responsible for the performance of tasks and the implementation of tasks that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibilities and concerning the establishment of basic principles of coordination of activities, the coordination of plans of entity bodies and the definition of strategies on international health and social protection, pensions, sciences and education, work and employment, culture and sport, geodetic, geological and meteorological affairs. The jobs of these institutions operating today, in principle, on the continuity of the regulations of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, go to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, and so to speak. In Article 30, please tell me nicely, in Article 30, the Council of Ministers, an excuse in Article 29(2), says the decision on the status of equipment, inventory and other things, means of work, archives and documentation, official premises and staff of the management body referred to in this Article will be made by the Council of Ministers in co-operation with the Agency for State Service within 90 days. For me, the most important thing is that the jobs of these institutions are not shut down, but that the jobs of these institutions, equipment, people of inventory go to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and continue their activities, but this time in the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on behalf of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an international basis. I'm asking a question. So for me, here's where the next alternative is now. Yes, in the meantime, from Dayton to the present day, entities have established all these institutions and the Health Protection Institute and the Employment Office. So the entities founded it. The rest of these state institutions are saying on the principle of continuity of the institutions of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Are we going to let these institutions collapse or are going to do something to include these institutions' 58 tasks in the Council of Ministers' affairs, and then to say so for the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the international agenda? Please nice, one of the saddest things that can be heard on the media is that the returnee, if he comes to another entity from one entity, has no right to health care. You've seen a lot of cases like this. Please, a nice question of health care and social protection is now a question. These old and these cases and these jobs should be in the jurisdiction of the Department of Civil Affairs under this provision here. I'm asking you to understand this thing this way and this way. So much and thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I ask the MPs who is to accept the request of the Council of Ministers for the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Authority, with this technical repair that we have received from the Council of Ministers, which is embedded in the text that has been submitted to you today under Article 105? Who's in? Count the votes. Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Did you win? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. Give me the results. We're moving on to a statement by entity. From the Federation, I ask the MPs who's in favour. Did you count it? Thank you. From Republika Srpska, I ask MPs who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. Sign my results. I'm publishing the results of the vote. Of the 35 MPs present, 19 voted in the general parliamentary statement, 19 voted in favour, 15 were against, 1 was abstention, which means the law received general parliamentary support. The Federation entities voted 11 in favour, which means it's more than 1/3. Republika Srpska voted 8 in favour, which means that it is more than 1/3 and the Council of Ministers has accepted the request that the Law on Ministrys and other administration bodies go to Article 105. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. Who's up for the law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you. We're moving on to a statement by entity. From the Federation, I ask the MPs who's in favour. Did you count it? Thank you. From Republika Srpska I ask MPs who for? I'm publishing the results of the vote. Of the 35 present, 19 voted in favour of the general parliamentary statement. 15 voted against, abstentioned 1 which means the zakon received general parliamentary support. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted 11 in favour, which means it's more than 1/3. Republika Srpska voted 8th, which means it's more than 1/3. 59 I konstatuj that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina passed the Law on the ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration in the text that was delivered by the Council of Ministers with that letter and that correction that I highlighted before the vote itself. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the fifth item of the agenda, and that's Ad. 5. MP Muhamed Moranjkić's request to discuss draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure you've got that text of the law. I'm obliged to open the debate. If anyone wants to talk. This is just a matter of procedure. Mr. Moranjkić, if you have needs, you wrote, we read what you had to say. I can put you to a vote then. If no one answers the question I ask the MPs who is to accept Mr. Moranjkić's request that this law go according to Article 104. Who's in? It's 104, it's not 105. Did you count it? Count it then? Keep some charts, please. Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There's no konstatovati, give me the results, how many of us are in total. Please, 32 MPs are present. Please, MPs, let them enter this room. We'll take a break if we need to take a break. I understand that Mr. Moranjkić's request was adopted unanimously with 32 votes. I have suggestions from the College to give 15 minutes off, right? We're taking a break until 16 and 50. We're continuing 10 to 5, please. /PAUSE 15 MINUTES/ We continue to work. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. We therefore adopted a request by Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to discuss the draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So we move to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad. Six. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on amendments I-VI of MP Sead Avdić to the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading I would like to remind you that the proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment was in the procedure in the previous assembly of the House of Representatives. At the 30th session held on 1 August 2002, the proposed law was adopted in the first reading. At the 31st session of 16 September 2002, the draft law was discussed in a second reading. Ambassador Sead Avdić submitted 8 amendments to the bill. During the debate, he gave up amendments I and II. Amendments III to VIII did not receive an entity majority, which is why 60 reconciliation procedures were to be carried out. The agreement on the remaining 6 amendments was carried out in the Commission by the College of the current call of this House on the basis of our earlier conclusion on the continuation of the parliamentary procedure that you are familiar with. You've received a report from the Commission from the College. As you have seen in the College, there was no agreement on Mr Sead Avdić's amendments to the draft law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means amendments III to XIII from the submission, and here we will only know how to treat them as amendments I to VI to facilitate compliance. It is our duty to hold a vote on amendments in the second round. Please, let's approach the vote. I ask Parliament as a whole who is for the amendment and Mr Sead Avdić? Did you count the votes? Thank you. Who's against the amendment and Mr. Sead Avdić? Did you count it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Do we have a majority? From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask who's against the amendment I? There's no one here. From Republika Srpska who's against it? A total of 29 MPs. 17 voted in the general vote for, against the seven were abstentions. He received general parliamentary support for the amendments. The Federation wasn't against it? From Republika Srpska, it was 7 against, it's less than 2/3 and I find that amendment I received parliamentary support. We move to an amendment II. statement. Speak from a place you can't hear. You seek, you question the results of the vote. We know very well about it. From the Federation who's against? From Republika Srpska who's against it? You can't hear her speaking from a place. Now you see how you're gonna do. Mr. Paravac just wasn't in his circle, now he voted against it. A little while ago it was different having 11 against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7384	It's a Republika Srpska dish.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7385	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7386	Miloš Jovanović – v Ljiljana Milićević – v Nenad Mišić – v Momčilo Novaković – v Borislav Paravac – v Nikola Kragulj – v Nikola Špirić – v. Milorad Živković is absent Jelina Đurković – v. Petar Kunić – v. Mirko Blagojević – v. Tihomir Gligorić – v. Elmir Jahić – there is no Munib Jusufović – he is in favour.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7387	Tell me the results. Please, the results were against 11 MPs, and here I'm saying that this disputed moment, I apologize to the First Vice-President for talking about him now in the context of this disputed moment is, and if we don't count on this disputed moment, because Mr. Paravac later came in, so we have a situation that 10 is after the individual statement that the club president has the right to request it according to the Rules of Procedure. We have 10 so it's 2/3 so the amendment didn't get, amendment I didn't get support. 62 We move to the declaration under Amendment II. I ask the MPs who's in favor? I ask all MPs which amendment II? Who's for Amendment II? Please. Did you count the votes? Thank you very much. Who's against Amendment II? I don't know if it's the same, but wait till we're done. It's not a problem. We don't waste much time on this, and we can't object to the procedure. Did you count it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. We're going to vote on entities. Does he have most of this? Give it to me. Can I go to the entities? We're moving on to a statement by entity. I'm asking from the Federation who's against it? There's no one here. From Republika Srpska who's against it? Please, we have little problems. I ask you to open four eyes when the votes are counted, and I beg your pardon for harassing you. It is therefore not possible to throw out a vote-related bill here in the general parliamentary statement. I ask all MPs again, so the entire Parliament will raise who's in favour? And please don't go in and out. Yes, it is. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Yeah, it's okay. This way, please. Of the 35 people present, 21 voted in favour of the general vote, 11 against, 3 abstentions. He received general parliamentary support. The Federation did not object, but it was against Republika Srpska 11 so it was more than 2/3, so the amendment did not receive parliamentary support. We are moving on to Amendment III. I ask the Members of Parliament who is in favor of Amendment III? Did you count it? Thank you. Thank you. Put down these green cards. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. That's the same thing. Can we get across the entities? Who's the Federation against? Count it down here. There isn't. Who's from Republika Srpska against? The amendment did not receive the necessary support. He's got a general parliamentary, just like last time the same results. We move on to a plea by amendment, so IV. I ask the MPs who is for Amendment IV. Mr. Lagumdžija. Well, let's just see that it's the same thing. This is a little bit of form. Did you count it? Thank you. 63 Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. From the Federation who's against the amendment? There isn't. from Republika Srpska who is against the amendments? Same result of the vote. The amendment did not receive parliamentary support. Moving on to Amendment V. Who's for the amendment? Thank you. Who's against the amendment? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. From the Federation who's against the amendment? From Republika Srpska who's against the amendments? It's 11 again. The same results, the amendment did not receive entity support from Republika Srpska. And Amendment VI. Who's in favour of Amendment VI? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against Amendment VI? Did you count it? Thank you. Abstained?? Thank you. We're going after entities. Who's the Federation against the amendments? There isn't. From Republika Srpska who's against the amendments? Thank you. The results are the same. This amendment was not supported either. I call upon the House to declare the proposal of this law. So it's about the law in the second reading. So who's for the law? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against the law? Who's being held back? Tell me the results. Do you need it for the antennas? 28, 5, 33. Let's go check on the entities one more time. From the Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. How much is it from the Federation? 20 from the Federation, Republika Srpska 11. So from the 35 present 31 he voted for the law, it wasn't against, the four were abstentions. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20 voted in favour of the law, Republika Srpska 11 voted in favour of the law. I find that the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly has passed the Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 64 We move to the seventh item of the agenda. ______________: [[didn't come out for a pay phone, can't be heard]] The adopted agency, we have the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the seventh point of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on enforcement proceedings before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the Bill's proposal is the Council of Ministers. The parliamentary procedure was addressed on June 26th 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 9 July 2002 and you have that opinion. The relevant Constitutional and Legal Commission has submitted a report. As you can see, this law has been discussed in the previous assembly of the House of Representatives. It's about first reading, so the procedure prescribed in Article 95. Rules of Procedure. A debate on necessity and principles. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Mr. Nikola Špirić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7389	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we've been working all day and the question is how much measure can be taken into the essence, but two of my fundamental remarks regarding the Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we've made a huge mistake and we're introducing to a small door everything that's not been verified anywhere in the world as part of some democratic practice. We have here a report on the draft law on the enforcement procedure before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Constitutional and Legal Commission chaired by Mr Banjac. With full respect for the previous Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives, it made sense at least formally to have the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni of this House session, to say or no constitutional basis. It will ostaći noted that the new assembly of Parliament adopts the law on the proposal of the previous panel, the commission elected by this body, this body, therefore. It was also the reason I prayed and said the last time, and if it is a practice that MPs who want to be initiators of the law take advantage of their business opportunities, but in any case, the commissions have to do their part of the job and this is my huge grudge for falling into Parliament's work. Don't be mad. These are serious laws, but I don't think anyone has any reason to be against a constitutional democratic practices no matter how hastening on individual legal projects. [[or standing up doesn't understand]] And the other thing that's not good, and it's also about the principle that the bill promoter didn't foresee the means to implement this law that's written on, which is somewhere, how much there is 100 and something, so I don't make a mistake, I'm sorry, which has 260 members and I don't know 100 pages etc. And no matter what it takes, it takes a huge administrative apparatus for this law to be implemented. 65 The body proposing the law for the work of budgetary planning must have the indicative, therefore, framework of the resources needed. We will come now, so you can see that we have two parallel processes because no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina is doing their job at either entity level or at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have two parallel processes. The struggle of the state for election incomes and the struggle of entities to preserve it and we have a giant struggle where the funds are not chosen and we come into a situation that we cannot finance activities at the level of the state. And we don't even seem to have to plan what the funds are. I'm against such legal projects, and that's among other things why the Council of Ministers doesn't write the laws. And it's the largest handicap of practice so far, not only this council of ministers, but also others, the previous assembly, the largest number of laws came as it comes today from OHR and people don't need to count what the Council of Ministers needs to calculate. And here is the work of both the Council and Parliament. But here I'd really like to ask you. The other thing is here, we now have a series of legislative projects that the High Representative has imposed that are not in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the basis of these legal projects, we pass laws on the assumption that these laws have been verified in Parliament. And we're going out of the Constitution again. I won't say how good that is, how happy we will be in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I think the constitution should be respected. Or we have to get the strength to verify the laws imposed by OHR and the Office of the High Representative, to bring new legal projects and this type based on them. Because we need to see what we're gonna do. It will be repeated every time that someone will mention the constitutional basis, no matter how I don't mention it, to invite you to a replica, but to find a solution. I'm not saying this to get five people to say yes, you're protecting entities, and where's your country, etc. So the purpose of my story isn't that. Namely, no. You can answer it is not a problem I am ready to talk about, but if you are invited here to Article 4(a) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I would ask you to open up all the Constitution and read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7390	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7391	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is not actually a discussion, but it is not a replica to Mr. Špirić, but only an explanation that perhaps you could say, and this is about the following. The Constitutional and Legal Commission in this composition, and we are the three most responsible, chaired by two deputies, strives to maintain the necessary dynamics so that this home has the opinions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in time. However, given that this home reached a special conclusion on 13 January this year and resolved, perhaps even a legal gap and a call for Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, which is said to continue the continuity of the work of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shall continue with the legislative procedure under the proposed laws, which shall be approved by the representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the House of Peoples. The same rule will apply to other non-legislative materials, information, report, decisions, etc. Therefore, this is precisely why the commission has not acted on this in its new assembly, this item of the agenda, believing that the continuity of legislative activity, or parliamentary procedure, continues where it cares. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7392	Of course. I thank Mr. Ćeman who, as president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, gave an explanation. I don't think there's any need to explain anything all the time. We know exactly what we did. Of course, you're entitled to a replica. I'd like to beg you. Well, let's get the wrong quote. Call it what you want. Here you go. Mr. Špirić Nikola, guilty quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7393	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute that the law is in the process, and that is where the College's decision solves the problem. But he can't accept this home's report from a commission he didn't choose. So it's not a question of the law being in the process of not leaving it aside, but of passing our commission. It can't all go to conclusions, it can't be defended by conclusions. So I do not dispute Nikola Špirić that the law stands in the drawer, but that he goes into procedure and that the commission elected by this home. Well, it's also a hell of a thing that we took a cantonal commission and just made a college conclusion. But these are the commissions of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7394	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. JI will now, I will replicate you now by telling you that this Parliament will have continuity in its work in all elements, regardless of the personal composition of Parliament. This is the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and where one meeting stops, the other call will continue. There is no need, so it is very important that we respect the principle of continuity of institutions. All of you as MPs had the opportunity to read and get all these reports. Therefore, this is in place if you want both dignity and ultimately continuity in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mrs. Palavrić has a word. Here you go. Please don't talk past the pay phone. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7395	Let me rephrase it anyway, so I don't say to correct the wrong quote. But maybe it's just an correction to the wrong assumption. The first were corrected before the chairman of the Constitutional Commission and it was quite clear that we had not reached a conclusion or that Mr Špirić had not reached that conclusion, but this home, as far as I remember, continued there on the continuity of the work of this home. But the wrong quote is in the next one. Mr Špirić said this law is based on laws that are unconstitutional, and they were declared by the High Representative. I ask each of us who considers that one of the laws is unconstitutional to initiate the constitutional procedure before the Constitutional Court and only the Constitutional Court is competent to say whether any law is unconstitutional or not. As long as the Constitutional Court doesn't say the law that was passed was declared, whether we adopted it was constitutional. And I ask Mr. Špirić as an acquaintance as a well-known right not to present such false allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7396	I'm playing Mr. Belkić has a discussion. Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7397	Replica. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7398	Well, you don't have to run out on everyone. You're right, but I don't think I do. Okay, this is the answer to Mr. Špirić's replica. You're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7399	I'd like to ask if the correction of the wrong assumption is to then determine what's the exact quote. It is tačan that the College agreed, because it had a parliamentary majority and the rest that the College agreed or did not agree. Since it is, we've only received notice that the College has agreed. So we didn't vote. It tačan therefore an indication that it is a harmonised decision of the College and it is a business decision. Please, nice. I don't mind. But it is to retain the continuity of the legal projects done by the Council of Ministers, I do not know delegates, MPs. But not the continuity of the commission's work. Please, I don't understand it that way, please. We can stay here unexplained. It's another thing. I was talking about the legal projects not that were passed, I know it, Mrs Palavrić, but which were imposed, and not confirmed in this House. No, well, you know, I know what the procedure is when it comes to the Constitutional Court, but here it's about the laws that are imposed, and they're not confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7400	Okay. Nikola, we figured out what you're saying. Here's Ćeman, Mr. Ćeman wants him to, too. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7401	I will not, I have the need to explain exactly the position finally and my position as chairman of the Legislative Commission and the Legislative Commission is here which she may have been able to ask in the extreme case if the College did not receive the task of reviewing this issue again. Namely, Mr. Špirić, I won't be long at all, but above article 84. The Rules of Procedure stand next to the rest have a series of subtitle provisions -- basic legislative procedure, commission phase. So reviewing the commissions is a legislative process. One thing. The second thing, since the conclusion that this House has thus confirmed the continuity of the legislative, or parliamentary procedure, is, of course, independent of that, it is considered that regardless of which commission in which personal composition is part of the single continuity in the legislative procedure. That's the essence, and maybe it was better that we looked at it as a commission in this composition, but we chose to treat it as a continuity, and here's the Rules of Procedure talking about the legislative procedure. It's all expensive legislative procedure and what they did earlier in that commission and what we're doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7402	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Belkić Beriz has his word. Here you go. Discussion. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7403	I'm not going to do procedural things. I will pokušati to say something in favour of this legislative project because the BiH Party will absolutely support it immediately. Let me remind you, of course it's about first reading. Just to remind you that this legislative project entered parliamentary procedure on the 14th of last year. 14.6 last year. Of course, we can make it six more very skillful to do it and six more months it's in some procedures, so at some point we'll remember that 105 is not 105. High Representative, etc. It is simply a very important law that allows the Court of Justice, I hope that you have all read it, which allows the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make the collection, to enforce the mandatory execution of claims, etc. We're talking crime, fraud, etc. I'm asking you nicely to support this, this is the first reading, and we're going to talk about content. Six months, seven of this law we have in hand. Please allow us to support the legislative project, and as far as financing is concerned, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Court of Justice will finance the funds needed in the budget for its work exactly as will the procedures that this law is causing. So we support it. This is the first reading. Please, let's go faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7404	I thank Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt the Law in the first reading, in the first reading? Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? We're moving on to a statement by entity. Who is it to adopt the Federation Law in the first reading? The Federation. Thank you. Who's in favour of Republika Srpska? The results of the vote are as follows. Thirty-five present. For 23, 11 against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation by entities 23 for, it has support from the Federation as well as general parliamentary support, but from Republika Srpska is 1 for. So there's no 1/3 from Republika Srpska and the law goes in first reading to the alignment. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the quality control of certain products in import and export, the first reading of the bill was submitted in parliamentary procedure on 7 October 2002. The Proposer of the Council of Ministers, which, in addition to the proposal for a bill, also requested that the law be considered in accordance with a reduced procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The meeting of this house since 17 December 2002 accepted the Council of Ministers' request for a shortened procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 31 December 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission's report as competent to discuss this law was delivered on 17 January 2003. 69 I'm opening a debate. So this is the first reading, right? I'm opening a debate on this law. Who wants to talk? Mr. Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7405	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, since this is a general debate or debate in the principles of this law, given the content of the law itself, seems to me to have the logic of changing the name. In my opinion, it should be said that the Law on the Control and Control of the Quality of Certain Products is import and export. I'm talking about the content of the law. So whoever reads the law is also talking about quality control, not just surveillance. Also in Article 4, this point 3 when it comes to products that are deviating from the prescribed quality, can be imported, but says on the basis of the competent authority of the state administration. So the question is which organ. So I'm in the role of applicant, so I really wouldn't know who to turn to. The situation is similar in the case of a possible complaint against the applicant's solution. He also has the right to contact the competent authority. But I'm also saying there's a question about which competent authority? That's what I'm saying. It seems to me to be some general principled remarks, so I'm asking the Proposer to consider this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7406	I thank Mr. Jovanovuć. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7407	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is an important legislative project for Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that what I am going to say will be on the line of adoption of this law, but I would like to ask the Proposer to consider the possibility of a correction in the sense of eradicating the third-party indent of Article 4 where it says - the provisions of Article 1 of this article do not apply to products that deviate from the prescribed quality, are imported on the basis of the specific approval of the competent authority of the State Administration and the products imported for the needs of the State Border Service, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Interior etc. I think that when it comes to the law, there is no need to make an exception, especially when this member is in a collapsing with, this position 3 in a collapsing with Article 3. Because if it's a standardized quality I don't see the need or, in particular, depends on what product it's about, is that the exemption is given either to the State Border Service or to any ministry. That's why I think my proposal is to delete Article 4(3)'s position because it's in college, to a good extent, in college with Article 3. I am otherwise against different exceptions, because the exception that the law allows at least proved to be precisely the possibility for different types of machinations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what's not good is the fourth attitude. It's a financial asset. I ask you to listen to what the promoter says. To implement this law, financial resources must be provided in the BiH institutions' budget, the Federation of BiH budget, Republika Srpska, Brcko District of BiH. The amount of funding in the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget for the implementation of this law at 70th time cannot be predicted. This can only be done after a detailed examination of the situation of the duration of organisation and technical training, etc. who's bound to do it. So there's at least an indicative, so the quantum means that it requires. Well, of course, the promoter has to make sure he says in 2002 that the vision seen by the resolution minister or the Council will be possible to implement a part. For that part, 200, 300, 500, 2 million must be provided. I don't know how much. I'd like to be really not like to be in the role of a budget rebalancer after these texts of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7408	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković, Momčilo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7409	Members of the Parliament, in business terms, we could not change this law with regard to the fact that the commission phase has expired and in this variant it is practically we could be accepted or not accepted in the first, and later in the second reading in this text that it is. Since this is the beginning of work and since there is no dispute here neither the need to adopt nor the constitutional basis of this law, etc. I would suggest that we reach a one-time conclusion, to extend the commission phase, that another meeting be held by a commission, and that until then, if someone has amendments, they make amendments. And in this way we allow these observations to be installed either in or out of place. So just for practical reasons, with the fact that the start of work is and many of the MPs don't even know that amendments are submitted only as long as the commission phase is going on and there is no possibility of action between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7410	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who else wants to talk? Look at it this way, Mr. Bešlagić Selim. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7411	I mean, when it's the first reading, let me express my suspicion of something that this law could be of quality. In Article 15, and the procedure for carrying out, as it is said, quality control. I think here we need to accurately specify which institutions they have to have in order to have quality. I'm telling you that at this point, this law, if it comes into effect, we're going to get into one cohesion, because it seems to me that a very small number of institutions, I'm saying it in the area, let's say that we're talking construction material has an aesthetic sign, and it seems to me that without these austelic signs, and without that we won't be able to get into the application of this law that I would say the great opposite between those who are looking for and what we're looking for under this law. So I would like to ask the promoter, along with all these esteeming things to be seen here, and to make it possible for these astounding signs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the institutions that want to deal with them to be done as soon as possible. I mean, it's procedure, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7412	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are in the business of the next situation. All those who have called on the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Proposer to intervene in this law 71 on the basis of their oral suggestions given today for this speaker, should know one thing, and that is – from the moment they get the law they have the right to submit amendments in writing to the committee responsible and to defend these amendments on the committee responsible. It's in this case the Constitutional and Legal Commission. That if the amendments pass on that commission then they become an integral part of the text of the law, and if they do not pass, they have the opportunity to repeat them and then defend them at the House session. It's a procedure. The Council of Ministers, or the Proposer, when the law enters the parliamentary procedure, then practically no longer has the opportunity to intervene on the text, then it is the law of the commission, the competent commission and the law dealing with Parliament. However, in order to overcome this situation today, given that most MPs unfortunately, as far as I see it now are not the least of the discussions I see, have failed or failed to consider the complete basic legislative procedure contained in what I was talking about. There is one possibility in Article 95(3)(a) that the College can apply the new amendments as well as how it stands here precisely, point 3(a) says this - after the debate starts, it will in consultation with the vice-presidents of the new amendments only in the following cases, under (a) when it concerns new aspects which the Commission could not take into account or when trying to agree on two or more proposals on which the debate is being held. So here I think that I have the consent of my vice-presidents, not my own, but the vice-presidents, so that we can, therefore, be able to apply this point of Article 94(3)(a) and allow the MPs, not the commission, but the House here, so that in the next seven days, if they think they need to lie, the amendments are being tabled, and then we will plead here on the House itself. In addition to this conclusion, I put the proposal of this law in the first reading on _________________: [[speaks from place]] Good one who's in charge. All right, so with this conclusion, we're leaving the amendment phase for another seven days, but don't bring us into this situation anymore. I've just told you what the procedure is. Who's in favor of the law in the first reading? Of course it's clear to me, but there it is. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? I therefore find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 35 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, passed the bill, so in the first reading of the Quality Control Act on the import and export of certain products, with the conclusion of the College that MPs have the opportunity to invest in the next seven days amendments to this law which we will declare when we discuss the law in the second reading. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's 72 Ad. Nine. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity is proposed by the Council of Ministers. It was delivered in parliamentary procedure on 7 October 2002. On 8 January, we received a request from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for the inclusion of this item in the agenda and a decision on the appointment of members of the Regulatory Agency for Electricity in order to establish this state institution which plays a crucial role in the implementation of the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Electricity System, which is a prerequisite for the implementation of the Electricity Project III or Energy III. You're the one who got the proposal. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Špirić Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7414	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course on the line of what I was saying about the previous agenda points I can't, I really can't understand, so here I am drawing attention to the means of information that they're doing this well. I would like to be wrong if this parliament were to adopt a decision to appoint the previous Council of Ministers, and there is a Council that we personally chose, to make a decision on the basis of a law that is of ad act because we are today, and here in the preamble to the Council of Ministers Act, and today we have adopted a new law, to make a decision without a sentence and a letter, although I individuals and can't say anything ugly about people who are proposing. So here I'm just defending Parliament's principle that we can't as a goose just raise our hand. I beg you, the decision cannot go under lease unless the College has made a decision and the parliamentary majority does not give it a right. I beg you don't mind me fighting for the dignity of this House and every MP. This is invisible. So I pray that at least it made sense, I don't mind people saying that this Council of Ministers meeting at the last session just confirmed this decision and that he delivered us to vote on the decision of this Council of Ministers. Otherwise people's choices seem pointless. I think the way we're doing the election has made it absolutely pointless except that there's been a physical replacement of people in certain places. Now, in that sense, I will be held back with full respect for every name mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7415	Thank you. Mr. Belkić Beriz. Mr. Beriz Belkić, then Mr. Andrić Filip, Mr. Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7416	I'm actually getting harder and harder to get around the situation like we're just seeing things for the first time and so on. And that we're constantly losing some authority, etc. There are simply certain procedures that don't begin with us, which have been carried out in entities. These are procedures that went 73 through the entity governments, came to the entity assemblies and lasted for months and months, and we today practically want to put it back in some way. Please. This is about the procedure which has been implemented on the Transfer of Regulator Act, etc. The procedure that lasted months and passed entities and parliaments and governments and the Council of Ministers simply passed on here later. Please don't open up every single thing so we don't open up any complications. So I support, simply this process should be completed because this has lasted a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7417	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7418	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I would very much agree with what Mr. Špirić said for purely principled reasons. On the other hand, I want to point out here with all due respect to the candidates who are a proposal for members of this committee, I personally don't know anyone from them, but by the way, I don't have any words or résumés about any of these candidates. The more we consider the fact that the Council of Ministers proposed these people at the end of its term, given that the Council of Ministers does not have the legitimacy of the Croatian people, I cannot really raise my hand for such a proposal. I therefore propose that this be returned to the Council of Ministers more than we have in mind the importance, the seriousness of the institution that we are essentially founded on what it should do tomorrow and the consequences that can be manifested for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7419	I thank Mr. Andrić. Who else wants to talk? Yes, Mr. Jovanović, after that Mr. Ćeman. I called Mr. Jovanović. He called earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7420	So I would like to join the discussions of Mr Špirić and Andrić because we also have a new Assembly, a new House of Representatives, the new House of Representatives of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have a new assembly of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, we have a new Council of Ministers. So it would make sense to say that they have opinions about these people too. And by the time I got out, it might be important to meet this Parliament that the House of Peoples was in the last meeting and we had, we discussed it on the Transport and Communications Commission and asked for amendments and additions to the Law and proposed that the headquarters of this state regulatory commission be in Tuzla. So instead of Sarajevo, he's in Tuzla. The Transport and Communications Commission adopted the proposal. I think you've already got it on the tables. So all the members of the committee, i.e. six members seemed to have been in favour, one against. Mr. Huskić was against it. So the others were in. It means that the headquarters of this state regulatory commission will be in Tuzla instead of Sarajevo. Thank you very much. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7421	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7422	So if there are no essential reasons and reasons to challenge any of the candidates that we have received in one to say even a complicated procedure that required a statement of even entity parliaments, then for very principled reasons, I really don't see any reason why we don't confirm this today. Why? Also for very principled reasons. So this will not be the only decision, and finally neither will the only document that this House will consider, and this Parliament that has previously been prepared, signed, etc. Although there is no complete analogy to be established. We'll have as much as a statement today on some contracts and agreements, etc. which they have signed as authorised on behalf of the state institutions of people who are, in the former instance, the preliminary meeting of the Council of Ministers. That doesn't mean that there's no other reason not to support it, etc. So I felt the need to say that I personally don't mind making this decision. I'll Glasać for the decision, but I don't see exactly any principled reasons not to support myself just because, in their full capacity, entity bodies have in their time made decisions and set out candidates' proposals. If there are no other reasons, it is not my reason not to vote positively for this decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7423	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if no one ever answers their words again, I'd like to say a few sentences just so I can inform you. Please. Mr. Lagumdžija, for the word appears in the usual way, and that is not at all a problem in your case, but the problem is what needs to be reported to the vacuum before I conclude, but here you go. You have a word. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7424	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7425	Just a little attention, please. A little louder, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7426	Thank you very much. I've only been offered one discussion here. The law on the transmission of power system regulators and operators published in the Official Messenger last year is the Law on which it was worked for several years, not by the Council of Ministers, but also by the past. It is the Law behind which is a major project with the World Bank Power-III famous that opened the process of arrival literally hundreds of millions of KMs, and even hundreds of millions in dollars if you speak to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the function of restructure and repairing electricity transmission as part of regional electricity transmission networks. 75 This law, I only draw attention to the fact that unfortunately it has been passed for years. As a result of what the law was, it was also the choice of members of this commission, i.e. the Regulatory Commission. We today unless we appoint members of the Regulatory Commission the process appears to be appointed at the beginning. This means that the entity governments are in agreement again, first governments, then in agreement with those who approved these loans, so I repeat in agreement with those who approved these loans, then the parliaments, then the Council of Ministers, and then Parliament. But that's not the problem, I would ask you not to use the terminology of these things by this government, past government, this council, that council of ministers, because the concept of the state regulatory commission is exactly the opposite of the way the new government thinks about when it comes to changing regulatory commissions and members. They know the HDZ gentlemen that, say, in the Federation, I'm going to list a similar commission or banking agency and the like that that was appointed three years ago, no one has changed them. Although these people when they came here, they probably came because they're professional. And say what's what I'm being offered. When you read this law, you will see that this law does not say that the members of the commission are Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak. You will notice that when you read the law, but in law there are two people from the Federation and one from Republika Srpska. What are those nationalities that are probably somehow meant as a matter of good education in this country when it comes to these things. But I'd like to ask you if the guy's argument didn't get the support of this and that nation's member of the state's power regulator, not to use it. If anything, it's because you're hitting the very foundations of what we're deciding here today. And then, what's the answer then, the lender I'd like the new Council of Ministers not to have to worry about with that possible creditor response, so I'm suggesting that we end this today anyway. And I probably like all of you if you named these people, you'd have different suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7427	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, second vice president. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7428	I have before me this law that Mr. Lagumdžija mentioned, and here there is nowhere to talk about us changing any members of the commission. So the commission has not been appointed at all. This Parliament has the sole authority to appoint or reject proposals or how explicitly it states in the law. So we are now acting Mr Lagumdžija in accordance with the law and we want to act within the principle of this law and the principles that have been established and this one we want to be respected and that this law is the basis for what you say to restructure a very important segment of energy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it contributes to this reform approach that we all advocate. But what it's about. It's just that we don't have a résumé of any of these candidates here. It is the most powerful commission, agency and body that will in general exist at the level of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution. Stronger than the Council of Ministers. So what are we talking about? No Niko here wants to speak against anyone, but we want to lead a coherent policy. I read the powers of Derk. So read the powers that this body has from a to s. Please which people for three years, four or five will be. I want to know who's behind that proposal, who these people are, if they have those capacities, and then I'll raise my hand to them. Unbound whether it is a Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak. And don't challenge people's right to give their opinion because it was once in the procedure. And we could talk about whether this House of People was legitimate at the time when 76 made this decision and why some people in the technical mandate wanted to solve things this very important. But I don't want to talk about it. I really want to see who's behind this proposal here. What Council of Ministers? Is this the new Council of Ministers behind that proposal? That this commission of these capacities, which these laws have given, will also use quality for the benefit of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the benefit of not only the citizens but also the people who live on this. So I don't think we should abuse someone's discussion and immediately say they're against it, that they're against it and that they are, but there are some questions that are logical. Finally, the law provides for a procedure if Parliament refuses, no delay. Clear procedure 30 days to a new proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7429	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mr. Lagumdžija. This is the answer to the replica. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7430	I just want the facts to work. All decisions preceded here by this before Parliament, including a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which was made on the basis of a full procedure previously carried out in entity governments, i.e. the ministries or parliaments, were made before the elections and none of this was done in the technical mandate in this process. So just for the sake of clarification. And why hasn't the new College provided with this the life of the candidates should ask the College why it's missing, and if the resume is missing, I don't argue that it should be complemented. And I repeat, Mr. Raguž has not been done in the technical mandate, even if it was done in the technical mandate, it wouldn't change things, but the fact is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7431	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? I just want to, I'm obliged to actually inform you, it's my department of ladies and gentlemen MPs that people from the World Bank have been coming to me as chairman and wondering why this agenda has not been on the agenda so far. It is therefore a project that weighs 220 or 250, I do not remember exactly millions of dollars now, and I want to inform you about it, and that point is therefore, in principle, the continuity and obligation of Parliament to come into parliamentary procedure, which is also at the House's session, actually today at this session. So I have to put this proposal to a statement. Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7432	Excuse me for calling again. I have therefore experienced the interpretation of the whole procedure as follows. She practically does, even though we're deciding today, she's definitely right, Mr. Raguž, but I realized that she's created in entities through the congregations and the government of the entity. So these are things that have been forged in entities and the Council of Ministers no matter what composition we think is somehow just a thing passed on to the Assembly. So I'm worried about the next one. If we don't do this today, the procedures are very complicated. It goes back to entities, congregations, governments, etc. And I'm counting on people chosen by their expertise for 77 such an important agency. So this is just an extra how I've experienced this whole process. So the decisive role was in entities and believed that entity and entity governments had criteria for the whole proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7433	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7434	I don't even know why I'm sitting here, because as I move on, I'm getting into a situation where I can even think about whether there's a reason for these things. This is where it comes out and it's said that at least we got the biographies. I have to tell you, the biographies we got for the ministers and the prime ministers don't make you feel any better. Here's the biography of the Slobodan Kovač candidate for the function of the minister of justice. I was born in December '36. years in the municipalities of Pala. I graduated from law school. I'm a doctor of law science, tap, tap, tap. Republika Srpska and nothing more. Here you have this second biography of Niko Grubišić when we get more biography of our ministers then I have to tell you that first looks like this home would have to do what the biography of our candidates should look like. Well, then I think we'd be right to ask these questions. I don't care about his biography when he was born, where he was born from whom he was born. I'm interested in what he did and if he can do anything. So I think at this point you connect because we haven't got a biography there's not much fide of what we've got. But please, if, as a House, we can make a decision that from now on, biography is written in such a way and that everyone who wants to participate in any government must do so. It'll be a passing grade. I mean, sometimes we get caught up in formal stuff, but the point is whether or not we will. When there's law and amendment to the law, then I'm going to come out and fight for it to change its seat there because I think it's necessary to change. But when it comes to this that it's a state commission that will be responsible to the Council of Ministers in fact, then I think if it's a million, if it's five thousand dollars, I'm here to vote today and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7435	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? I put the motion for a vote. Who's in? Did you count the votes? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you. From the Federation who's in favour? The Federation who's in favour? From the Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? 32 MPs voted. The vote was 25, against the vote 2, the abstentions were 4. There is general parliamentary support. From the Federation. Please. From the Federation, if there are objections I can repeat it is not a problem. There isn't. Okay. So, good. 78 Please, I'll do it. You don't have to. Let's level the data, please. Don't do this. 32 total MPs voted. 25 MPs voted yes. Are there any objections? There isn't. Three MPs said they counted three MPs against and four were abstentions. 25,28,32. Three were against it. So 25 for, proit 3, abstention 4. Any objections to this vote, to the count, pardon? There isn't. All right. By entities. The Federation voted 18 from Republika Srpska for 7. There is, therefore, an entity majority in both the Federation and Republika Srpska. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has decided to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in the text as proposed by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the tenth item of the agenda, that's Ad. Ten. A report on the work of the Commission to examine the status of naturalised persons from 6.4.992 until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina The report of this Commission was delivered to you in the previous assembly of this House. It carries a date, so it was delivered to Parliament in a previous meeting and carries a date on July 8th 2002. He's the one you got, and I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7436	We've probably lost our patience. I'll try as soon as possible. So I'll avoid these technical mistakes, etc. to precision that makes it impossible to determine practically what period of the report is, but to skip it. The facts are as follows. It is obvious that the mandate of this commission expired at the end of 2001 and it would be good for the Council of Ministers to see further status of this commission in accordance with the Law on Citizenship. The obvious problem in this report is that real insight and the situation of the facts the Commission decided couldn't realistically obtain, because it simply decided at the beginning of its work not to be in its intention all that was behind 15.12.95, all that the solutions were later delivered after 15.12.95. So we have the following situation in this report that practically 9,164 cases have not been considered, because solutions and justice came only after 15.12., does not give the right picture. So other than these statistics that we have and the list of persons in this information, we do not practically have an evaluation of the Commission's work, i.e. the findings of what the Commission has found and what phenomena it has encountered. Was there a breach of procedures, whether they were valid evidence, whether this was it, whether it was it. Practically one single statistical examination of the person to whom it has been taken, confirmed or not considered. I suggest next. That this report, that this report, that this report is currently being examined by the Council of Ministers and to see the status of the Commission to which the contract expired and to ask this Commission to give an assessment of the situation, not just statistical data. We simply don't have an estimate of whether there are illegalities in the procedure of giving citizenship or not, in what cases, what they are, where they are manifested. They're just telling us that citizenship has been taken away in, say, 42 cases. 79 And an initiative that results from reading this report. It's the name again, the wrong name of the anti-terrorist team. Here, however, he is mentioned as a co-ordination team to monitor the prevention of terrorist activities and actions. I ask the Council of Ministers to reconsider the need to continue to act on this team and ask that the correct term be used over and over again, not to use the wrong expression. It's a team that co-ordinates activities to implement the anti-terrorism plan. He's not an anti-terrorism team. And it's constantly lying in this moving documentation. I suggest that the Council of Ministers review the status of the team to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the anti-terrorism action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7437	Thank you. Mrs. Jelina Đurković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7438	I just want to add Mr. Belkić's attitude and this to make this list we've received seem not accurate, it's not true. You'll run into a whole group of repetitive names. Let's say the whole group of three or five faces or one face. The example works here, I'll read it to you on page 61. Palavritić Zuhdi, and on page 64 you will again appear Palavritić Zuvdi. So they're repeating names, so you don't really know and it's not only Zuhdi or Zuvdi, what's that right now, but you're going to find and say Rastoder Nedžad twice and just a little bit more to see, there's here. So what's right now? Radanović Leposava, Martinović Refik, then Ljiljana Andrić, Olga Bašić, Petar Laslo, etc. Well, then this isn't a valid list to me. If he, like this, happens that I come across the names and last names that repeat, then I ask that this list be updated simply because of the validity of it. To be that, it's obvious that it was done by two commissions, two men, two hands, three hands, it doesn't matter. But there's a repetition here, and it needs to be cleaned up to make that list right. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7439	I thank Mrs. Đurković. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Špirić Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7440	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's work report on the status of naturalised citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a certain period has been the subject of various speculation and activities for 7-8 years. Both the Commission and everything that seems to be in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is leading such an activity as to cover everything that does not go on the face of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, I would like to say today, although I have often talked about this topic in the interest of every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that I should ask for the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly, who put, for one point of the agenda, various or incomplete materials at both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that's the case, I'll show you this the next way. So we only have this material here, it's the Commission's work report on the status of naturalised persons in the 6.4 period.In '92 until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the material all MPs have. I must tell you now, this supplemental material that came to me because I was the chairman of the House of Peoples, who, by chance or on purpose, was not delivered to you by the messengers in this House. He refers therefore to the request – Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, he referred to both homes, the Council of Ministers' and Herzegovina's commission, where it is said - by a decision on the admission of 80 BiH citizenship based on BiH's membership and armed forces after 15.12. '95 is wanted. And then both homes write the commission and say -- at the 30th session of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina held on 27 September 1st, a decision was taken on the appointment of the Commission to examine the status of persons edified after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that this decision by the Council of Ministers follows different stories about Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether there are terrorist camps, whether there are terrorists, whether there are illegally acquired citizenships, etc. During the second decision, the second decision found it was the commission's task to consider the status of the person. The Council of Ministers therefore went on purpose for reasons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the entry into force of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act. The Commission found in its work that a number of persons were admitted to the BiH citizenship after. Please, so I'm asking you not to get the people, I'm talking. You did read which one you had a chance to read. Just a little bit, please. Please, it's duty. Mr. Muratović, I want to read because people don't. And I want to read to the public about Bosnia and Herzegovina that we don't have the same materials in two homes. And that's about what I'm going to say in my conclusion, so please listen, I'm not slow to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7441	Mr. Špirić, please. The subject of this item of the agenda is information, i.e. the Commission's work report on the status of persons naturalised in the period from 6.4.92. until the entry into force.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7442	That's what I'm talking about, I'm asking you to let me
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7443	Don't talk about it, Mr Špirić. You're talking about the second committee of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7444	dealing with this problem
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7445	Please do not deal with this issue, but rather with the question of examining the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was a delegate to the House of Peoples as well as you and I, please nice and I know what was going on there. Here's the Secretary of the House informs me that this house has not received this other information from the people. When is that other information?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7446	This is not the information of the House of Peoples, this is the information of the Council of Ministers' Commission 81
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7447	Please, when on the agenda of this house, when on the agenda, we didn't get it, when on the agenda of this house it's what you're talking about, we'll talk about it. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7448	- No, you're not. I know you don't want to talk about this, but that is the problem of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7449	But, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7450	I'm asking you not to interrupt me. Is this the protocol of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, whether this is addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7451	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7452	How is it possible that the House of Nations won, and the House of Representatives did not. Will you allow it or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7453	Please be nice, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7454	How is it not, so we're talking about naturalized citizens outside the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7455	Hold on. Finish your discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7456	I'm asking you to let me finish, so you take whatever you want. I demand that responsibility be determined. Who won't listen, I can't force him. I'm sticking to the agenda and I know this isn't an easy topic. Don't put the gentlemen on the agenda. I ask you nicely, therefore, to be requested because the Commission has established an irregular admission to citizenship and is asking both homes to give an interpretation. And here's what they say - given the above circumstances, it was adopted whether or not it is unclear whether the admission of those persons into BiH citizenship after the signing of the Dayton Agreement is legally relevant, i.e. that the Commission can consider the same person's admission to BiH citizenship as legally valid or not. Members of the Commission – Miodrag Pandurević, Ibrahim Đikić, Ivo 82
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7457	Mr. Špirić, please. I don't. Please, I'm talking nice now. You're out of the agenda and stop now. Please don't play here with Parliament's MPs. Niko of us here are any more dim, and we all know how to think. The agenda item is called – the Commission's report on the status of naturalised persons from 6 April '92 until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You're talking about the work of another commission again. Let that report come. I don't mind discussing everything and every single citizenship here in this house, but you'll stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7458	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7459	Please, and the agenda is the Commission's report on the status of naturalised persons in the period from 6.4.'92. I repeat this to you by the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have something to do with that report. All other reports will be on the agenda in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7460	So how human do you hide with the godfather?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7461	So who's hiding?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7462	My father. What does it say here? The Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. As far as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7463	Finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7464	But we have a lot of these materials. [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7465	There isn't. Mr. Muratović, I know you have a lot, but here's what matters to me. Take you out as far as you can and we'll get to them. Don't be nervous. It says here – Bosnia and Herzegovina, Parliamentary Assembly, Sarajevo 20.5.2002. Protocol of Parliament. How is it possible that he's got one home, the other isn't with this point? Well, don't last year. There is also the conclusion of the House of Peoples that they are illegal, that these receptions are not legally valid. So also 83 Constitutional and Legal Commissions and Home. So please, I want to talk about it and ask for responsibility. That's enough of this state of cover-up. Do you think it'll help one of the parties of the people? If you're not ready to talk, thank you very much. I'll give this to information. I'll Glasać against this report. This remains unfortunately the burden of this country. And you're not ready to talk. This is the address of Svetozar Mihajlović to this House. That's not true. Here you go. Request to take a stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7466	Please allow Mr. Špirić to finish. Please finish, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7467	Please, nice Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications begs Parliament, both at home and says – as a resolution minister of the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force, therefore the same material, the Constitution. In addition, I would like to submit a request from the Commission to take a stand on persons who have acquired Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship on the basis of the gap in the armed forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 15/12/95. A year. Isn't that the same material? He's asking for a man's opinion. The Commission is asking for an opinion. And we get dry materials in this house, and in this we have all the materials. Please don't play. I seek first and foremost responsibility from a parliamentary committee that did not inform the College if that is the reason. If someone in the College knew what their colleague Muratović said and hid, then it was on the cheek of everyone who wants to fight what's called evil, which is terrorism. I don't argue that there are any who want to hide. I'm not the one. I can't accept this report. I'm asking for the same procedure to be conducted as in another home and that we have a clear view. How is it possible to get other materials from the House of Nations with my signature s.r. Someone pulls out their own hand and this isn't? How is that possible? So it's obvious there's no readiness. I can't support this report. I ask that the commission, for the state commission, be relieved of its duties and request that the Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives be replaced. To once introduce the principle of responsibility that every MP must at least be informed at the beginning. All I have is the privilege of getting material in another home, or others, and I don't want to use it. And I don't see any reason to be so nervous, because Mr. Džaferović and Genjac expressed themselves in the House of Peoples and voted against it. But I don't argue that they have the right to vote against. But that doesn't mean he can block the debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7468	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. You're really not gonna piss me off right now. Well, obviously, that was your intention. I didn't take your word for it just so I wouldn't give you an argument. I let you end up saying everything you have even though anyone who wanted to read and listen, not to say, and to think quite clearly that you used this pay phone to talk about a whole other topic and other information, not what is today's agenda point, and I have repeated several times what is the agenda point. That's one thing. And another thing for the public I want to say is that from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Secretary of the House I have been informed that in this house of materials related to this topic and 84 related to this commission came only what is called – the Commission's report on the status of naturalised persons in the period of 6.4.'92. Until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If other materials arrive, and when they arrive, they will be on the agenda of this house, the session of this house. Don't doubt that. There's no reason it shouldn't be on the agenda of the House's session. And this material, as a matter of principle, came to the agenda of today's session. Everything will be at the session of this house I assure you. We're moving on with the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7469	Since this is information, or report, let me look back at a few of my own personal observations. First of all, I'd like to get all the materials that apply to these things to just face the fact and the truth, but that's also the fact that from these materials are names and last names we don't have any analysis. And me as a man, it interests me first. These are the people who have sought asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that it was harder for them in that country where they came from. That's why I'm interested here, if it's possible to get information from where these people came from. This is a very important indicator, let's say now, since I am also in the Commission on Human Rights, I think that might be one reason to make one questionnaire out of this analysis that would be forwarded I would say as a report and according to the European Commission on Human Rights and to point out that people have moved from one country to another where here we are struggling to introduce law and order. Which means it's up there. So I'd like to go with the suggestion that this means this material by throwing out those double names, etc. if it's possible to get here on the side if he came from Saudi Arabia, if he came from Iran, if he came from Yugoslavia, if he came from Croatia, if he was from Slovenia, what do I know. There are a lot of those who probably came from Slovenia to be our own, so that we can also see why and how these people are looking for a solution in this part here. So I'd like to ask you to fill out this information, because I think it deserves our attention. With one request to comment on Mr Špirić, I absolutely accept it, but I also accept Mr Džaferović's suggestion that if he comes, and this is where the question of why he didn't come, that was the question, that it was seen, and that perhaps at the next for the next meeting of Parliament we get this information with such updated data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7470	Okay. Who else wants to talk? Please, I'm the one who concludes the debate if no one answers the word? I am obliged to present the Commission's report as it is to be put to the vote, and then we can talk about the conclusion on what Mr Beriz Belkić was talking about, but I am obliged to put it to the vote before that. Who's to accept this committee's report? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Eighty-five abstentions? Thank you. What's the status? Entirely. From the Federation who's in favour? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you. I find that 31 MPs voted, 17 voted for, five were against, nine were abstentions. The Federation voted 17 in favour of Republika Srpska. And this commission's report is going to be agreed to by the College as a committee of directors. So after that, after the reconciliation process, we will continue when it comes to the agenda for these proposals of the conclusions Mr Belkić spoke of. We're going to the eleventh point of the agenda, that's Ad. 11. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's duties on 30.6.2002. The processor is the Ministry of Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. Information was delivered to Dom on 16 September 2002. This is just information. It is already outdated, but I said, all that is in the parliamentary procedure must come here for the House's session and we must make a joint decision on this. We also have a letter from the minister. I'm not, so here I see this letter here, the minister of the vault is. On the basis of Article 139.f. The House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is asking for a postponement of the debate on this item of the agenda – Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibilities from 30.6.2002. This is why, with the draft budget for 2003, we will also provide information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibilities as of 31.12.2002. I think we should also appreciate this point in this way, let's say this - the conclusion, therefore, that we received this information about duty in mid-2002 and that we expect this information as wrote by the minister at the end of 2002. Who's in favor of this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7471	(speaks from place, can't be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7472	Information with analysis. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Take this over there. Are there any abstentions? We find that we unanimously adopted a conclusion in which we took note of the Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibilities on 30.6.2002 and asked the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide us with the budget for 2003 with Budget. For 86 years, it provides information on this issue with 31.12.2002, which will include an analysis of the effects of Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt and debt with, therefore, effects. Let me stand here. This is the conclusion we adopted for a stenogram so that those working from professional services can make a quality conclusion. We're going to 12 points on the agenda, that's Ad. 12. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Final Report on the State of Sustainable Development for the World Summit on Sustainable Development The Processor is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. It was delivered to Parliament on 14 October 2002. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Izet Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7473	It is a pleasure to have received such a document in Parliament and a document that has provided a presentation of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina against its environment, against the great problem that the serious world and serious countries are already considering and have solutions for the problems and development and protection of the environment. This is indeed repeating one extraordinary piece of paper that has arrived and I suggest that because most of the recommendations that have been made here are related to sustainable development, related to environmental protection and the rest is in the jurisdiction of most entities and cantons, that we pass this document on to the entity's congregations to get to know MPs and governments as well as the cantonal congregations. Because part of it is in the light of our constitution part of these responsibilities is with these organisational units. I suggest that by supporting this document that the Council of Ministers also discusses its responsibilities, since we now have the law that has been adopted, to elaborate obligations and to inform us eventually of the concrete actions that result from this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7474	I thank Mr. Žigić. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7475	As my colleague Belkić says, some of the materials we have are both educational and I could conclude that this final report is, in addition to some programme character which has at the same time and is truly educational and whoever did not deal with this problem or does not deal with this problem in some more thorough scope could indeed have received this series of information that came well and I welcome it. In addition to what has already been heard, I think it would make sense when it comes to organic waste on which in one context it is spoken in point 3. basic forms of biological and geological diversity and natural resources and at point 3.3. or 3.2. or so on, it could somehow be placed there in a broader context. I think that all entities dealing with this problem through practical moves should also take care of the fact that, at the time of SFOR's term, it is still going on at certain locations across Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately whether we say that the disposal of environmental very suspicious waste is so, and that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina both of the 87 entities have shown very, very large dissatisfactions over the past years. I was even able to, in a direct context, point out that a certain landfill of waste that could have affected the water streams, i.e. supplying drinking water to even one significant area, so I was in a position as a member of the Federation of BiH Parliament to ask that question, and unfortunately I did not get the right answer about it. Of course, the goal of the question and what I'm saying today is not just so much to get an answer but to try in this context that this information, or report, implies that at least we know where what is what. If it had to be delayed, where it was delayed, and to what extent it could affect here the quality of drinking water and all that is related. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7476	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, because I can see that no one is answering their words. As you have therefore seen from the just report of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Final Report on the State of Sustainable Development for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the Council of Ministers of the Previous Call adopted certain conclusions and recommendations required to support this home. I really propose that we adopt the following conclusion in the House: - firstly let us take note of this final report, - secondly, to support the conclusions and recommendations delivered in the Council of Ministers' report in order to develop a strategic programme for future sustainable development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and - thirdly, I do not think it is at all incompatible, in fact it is a highly compatible proposal by Mr Žigić to deliver this report to the proposals, suggestions and entity parliaments and parliaments of canton in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course to governments. I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Is anyone against it? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that Parliament's House of Representatives unanimously adopted this conclusion that I have proposed. We're going to the 13th item of the agenda, that's Ad. 13. The Commission's report on a parliamentary investigation carried out in connection with the discovery of illegal weapons stored in Mostar Ladies and gentlemen MPs and this is also the item of the agenda, which is in today's session on the principle of continuity, because we do not want anything to remain in the drawers of the Parliamentary Assembly. Everything needs to come here to the Dom. In the previous assembly of this home in May 2002, an investigative commission was formed by this house to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the discovery of 88 illegally stored weapons in Mostar. It's been a long time since the commission was formed. Since then, competent authorities have filed several criminal charges against responsible persons and these proceedings are ongoing. You know from the media that the indictment was filed. The commission of inquiry has delivered its report and we as the House should therefore be aware of the report. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7477	Here's just a few words more as a suggestion so that one of the advocates in the previous assembly who held four sessions doesn't run out without at least a comment. After all these sessions, a consultation of the Bureau, the Permanent Military Commission, the OSCE, SFOR, we didn't get any concrete proposal from them here, I would say a single conclusion. So my proposal is not to spread a big story about this, that as part of the extraordinary session of the House of Representatives which, Mr Špirić who went away, I want to say that as a member of the College, I have explicitly asked and I think that we have established it and that it will be until 15.2. and I hope that the College will respect it. So, in the context of considering this overall situation, it tries to answer the question that has only been touched in principle here, which means SFOR has given an answer to this commission in which it says - that this weapon is illegally produced and illegally stored. Since it's about mortar grenades, they point out that any location can be, or surrounding warehouses, a fire position. They listed the name and number of two approved warehouses in the area. The degree, this is why I'm talking about the degree of threat of citizens is not being declared, citing that only experts can answer these questions. So, who are those experts? Will we finally have authority in the institutional vertical of BiH in terms of institutions and individuals who can answer these questions. And since it's not the time today, it wasn't the only problem. He is not only referring to Mostar, but to the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that some of these conclusions should be used in making information, and I will personally, when the debate is debated, engage in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7478	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Mr Miloš Jovanović asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović. I'd like to ask MPs for a little patience. We don't have many points yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7479	I don't want to take up much of my time, but I can't help but think here it seems so irresponsible and irresponsible to the Federal Defence and Security Commission that they said they were unable to meet the request of this investigative commission. We are very often behind this speaker here in the state, in the state institutions, and usually in some negative context, it was taken as an example of Republika Srpska. But here's an example of what it's like to say to the federal authorities to the state parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7480	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Selim Bešlagić. I ask the Professional Services to come out, warn the MPs, five or six MPs have come out, now to enter the O.R. If it's all right, we'll take a break, but sit here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7481	I must say that the weapon found in Mostar, the weapon found in Prijedor, an ORO affair, says that there is absolutely no difference in Bosnia and Herzegovina between people in entities. Same target same distance. Everyone likes to hide, everyone likes to hold him, and then we come here and we call ourselves. That's why I insist here from this pay phone that on this issue arms on one single principle get answers and that this parliament has the right to demand I would say punishing all those who have violated these things. I don't think here, I absolutely don't care if it's in Republika Srpska or the Federation anymore. I'm interested in weapons, weapons, ammunition, like evils that should be eliminated as soon as possible if it's a harvest. And we've been doing harvests for a long time. So I would ask you to insist on this, but on the same principle. If necessary, write a pattern and a task of what must be answered. I'm tired of switching and that's this, and that's what it is, and he accidentally stored it here. Interestingly, it's not about small quantities, it's about quantities that couldn't have been the subject of the non-interest of those who should have known about these things. That's why I think I absolutely don't want to switch to the Federation or the Republic of Serbia. I want this parliament to insist that this be answered. Because if we do not get an answer to this, believe that both the next Parliament and the next Parliament there will always find something and always ask questions as to why no one else has solved it. So I would ask for one efficiency and a request from this Parliament to resolve this efficiency in such a way that it will definitely get an answer to who it is, which is why and whether it has withdrawn the consequences on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7482	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since no one's answering the word here, I'm closing the debate. I repeat, therefore, this is about the report of the ad hoc commission formed by the former House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly on a specific case related to Mostar and, of course, we as a new assembly should take note of this information. And I think that Mr Raguž made a good proposal that, and yet this issue is a matter of general security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, when we discuss the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we look at both this and similar cases as the appearance in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we take up as this House of Parliament's meeting of our conclusions and views. So who's up to this conclusion? So we accept to the knowledge and the framework of this security point of the agenda and the sittings of the special will be a debate on this as a phenomenon. Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. 90 Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I realize that we unanimously adopted this conclusion We are going to the 15th point of the agenda, or 14th, I'm sorry, we're not going to skip. Just remind me, I got a little tired, too, on the 14th item of the agenda, and that's Ad. 14. The Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on visits to a number of criminal correctional institutions, as you could see from the report, is about the activities of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum in the previous assembly of the House. You received a report from the Commission delivered on 18 September 2002. The report also contains certain conclusions proposed by the Commission to the House for adoption by the Commission. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? So if no one answers. Of course you can. Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7483	In order not to be critical of just the past meeting, I think this is a very high-quality information with quality conclusions to be supported and not only have entity governments, they should certainly have, I think the Council of Ministers should also base it on and on the basis of the fact that a new Ministry of Justice has been formed, and we see that some conclusions from this information refer to the entity ministries of justice, so that it sees what can be realised from these conclusions and this approach to certain issues and problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina will certainly result in high quality insights and quality suggestions. Especially since some of these are current now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7484	I thank Mr. Raguž. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing up. Niko did. I'm closing the debate. We therefore, since we have these here, the proposal for conclusions and the Commission report, we are obliged to put it to the vote. Therefore, the Commission's report with a proposal for a conclusion by adding this to the conclusion proposed by Mr Raguž to deliver this to the entity institutions in whose jurisdiction there is a significant number of proposals, in particular to the governments, as well as to the entity, a significant number of proposals set out in the proposal for these conclusions of this Commission. So who is it, then, to accept the report with a proposal of conclusions, to conclude our additional point as a second point to deliver it to the entities for the realisation of what is in their jurisdiction, to the entity governments in fact. Who's in? We have to count. Count, count, hold. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you very much. Shall we go after the entities? 91 Who's from the Federation for? From the Federation for? Did you count it? Okay. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Gligorić's on the fifth. Gligoric vote "for" wait. It's not 4 Republika Srpska. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Please pick up. I see 5. Watch you, brother. You've got Gligorić there on the fifth. Two, four, five. What's that? Is that some kind of special club over there? What's that? Give me the results. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like you to take your seats, unless some new clubs have been formed in the meantime. We didn't scare anybody off, Mr. Moranjkić. No, we didn't. 30 voted in favour of this conclusion, so 30 were present in total, 24 voted in favour, against the 1, 4 were abstentions. There is a general parliamentary majority. The Federation of BiH voted 19, Republika Srpska voted 5. So there's 1/3 of both entities and there's general parliamentary support so we adopted this conclusion. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. I'd like some attention. This will go on I hope faster. So that's Ad. 15. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted at the 30th session of the Representative's House last called on 1 August 2002. Since the law was passed in the House of Peoples with certain amendments at the 31st session of the House on 16 September 2002, a committee was formed to comply with the House of Peoples on the unique text of the law. However, as the elections soon followed, there was no longer time for meetings, and this job in the previous assembly was not completed. I remind you that in this case, it is necessary to appoint three members from this House to the Joint Commission in which the House of Peoples will appoint its three members in order to end the procedure and bring the Law on the Features of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The extended college of this house at last session found the proposal to name the gentlemen in front of the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission: - Petar Kunić, Sead Avdić and Vinko Zorić. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to accept this proposal to appoint our members as the Joint Commission? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the names of our candidates, our home for the Joint Commission. 92 We move to the 16th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a temporary committee to prepare the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives You are the Members of Parliament who have received a proposal for a conclusion that should form a temporary committee for the preparation of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. As you have noted in your Rules of Procedure, there are a number of vague provisions that should be more precise than there are needs and for the addition of the Rules of Procedure to certain provisions in order to regulate some of the issues raised by practice and thus make this home work more efficient. It is my duty to remind you that the House of the previous Assembly has formed a temporary commission that has done part of the work, so it has prepared a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. This happened at the end of the term of the previous term of the House so that there was no time to consider the proposal either in committees or at the House. There is also no synchronised activity in the House of Peoples which should certainly be done in the coming period since certain issues should be settled in the Rules of Procedures of both homes in an identical manner. So you gentlemen have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a temporary commission. We have also indicated in this regard and therefore in this proposal that the Commission should use part of the material of the previous House of Representatives. The extended college at yesterday's session established a proposal to appoint gentlemen in the temporary commission: – Mirsad Ćeman, Munib Jusufović, Filip Andrić, Momčilo Novaković, Nikola Špirić, Jozo Križanović, Sead Avdić, Jelina Đurković and Muhamed Moranjkić. As you can see in the proposal, all the parliamentary clubs in this house are represented. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. There's a lot of them? Okay. I agree that we unanimously adopted this conclusion, namely the names of the commission, which will work on the amendments and additions of our Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda, and that's Ad. 17. Giving consent to a) Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is financing the reconstruction of the water supply system for the Municipality of Prnjavor I am opening the debate. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Here you go. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7485	The chairman was a little surprised, however, I won't be longer, of course. We've got three if I'm not wrong about a proposal like this. One of the questions I wanted to ask here is that, of course, it is necessary to ensure the conditions for the resolution of these very important municipal issues in several of these municipalities, which includes Prnjavor. It's not about Prnjavor, it's about a principled one issue for all these contracts, and that's one of the terms of the contract is that in a large amount it's actually bound by these contracts, if I'm well aware that they're pulling themselves out of a country that gives credit under favourable conditions certainly goods and services, etc. in and out of what a great amount. So my question is that when we take the other terms of this loan, rock grace period, etc. whether it was really necessary to commit ourselves precisely to this amount in the withdrawal of goods and services from the borrower and whether a more favourable arrangement could be reached in this respect. This is more of a question. If everyone agreed with this, I have no reason to be against it, but it seems to me that it would make sense in similar projects to pay attention in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7486	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? I'm putting it to a vote. Who's to give consent to ratify this credit agreement? Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? No one's against it. Abstained? There isn't. How many MPs do you want to tell me? I find that the House of Representatives has agreed with 31 votes, so unanimously to ratify the Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina to finance the reconstruction of the water supply system for the municipality of Prnjavor. b) Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the financing of the reconstruction of the water supply system for the Municipality of Oslo I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? I find that the House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina to finance the reconstruction of the water supply system for the Municipality of Olovo - unanimously with 31 votes for no votes against and without abstentions. We move to point (c) 94 c) of the credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina to finance the reconstruction of the water supply system for the municipality of Zepće I open the debate. If no one answers, I'll close the argument. I'm asking you who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that predstavnički 34-vote House of Representatives gave its consent to ratify the Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the financing and reconstruction of the water supply system for General Zepce. Under d) d) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and protection of investments I am opening the debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who's to give consent? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Is there no hold-ups? I do not konstatovati that the predstavnički of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement unanimously with 34 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, so the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and protection of investments and under e) consent to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the incentive and mutual protection of investments by opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea and I'm asking you who's to give consent? Thank you very much. Who's against it? You don't mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 34 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, gave its consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the modification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the incentive and mutual protection of investments. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the 18th item of the agenda. 95 You know that Mr Bariša Čolak has stopped being an MP after being appointed as Minister of Security and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers. He was a member of two commissions in this home. I'm asking the representative of the HDZ Club to give us suggestions for these two commissions instead of Mr. Bariš Čolak. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of our club, we propose Mrs. Ruža Sopta to both of these committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7488	I'm opening a debate on the proposal. Then this is how I conclude the debate. These are the Commission for Human Rights and the Commission for Transport and Communications. Who is it that Mrs. Ruža Sopta chooses instead of Mr. Bariša Čolak in his position in these two commissions, the Human Rights Commission and the Transport and Communications Commission, right? Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly unanimously with 34 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, has chosen Mrs Ruža Sopta at the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum and the Commission for Transport and Communications. We move to the 19th point of the agenda, which is Ad.19. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of MP Niko LozančiLozančić You have received the proposal for a decision. Formally, Dom should make a decision that determines the termination of the term of office of Mr. Niki Lozančić because of the incompatibility of the functions since he was elected president of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is one formality we are obliged to fulfill under the Electoral Law. I'm opening a debate about her. If no one answers the word, I'll close the argument. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt this decision? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that unanimously with 34 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we adopt this conclusion. We have not yet completed the session of ladies and gentlemen MPs even though we have practically exhausted the agenda of today's session. I received a message from Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić during the session saying: 'Mr. Chairman, before the session is concluded, please allow me to take a parliamentary response which is an expression of the dissatisfaction of our club of MEPs of the BOS and the Welfare Party'' Down says p.s. Another club is probably in the same situation, so here we are before you leave because today we've allowed everyone to speak as much as they think. Please. Mr. Moranjkić is just about to turn around and let's go. Let him say what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7490	Like this, I'm ladies and gentlemen, the MPs made a joke. It may have seemed untasteful when I said they were on the verge of disseminating some of the MPs' clubs. He reagovati to Mr. Chairman, and now I'm serious about it from this pay phone. Namely, the mentioned club, while the other is composed of Sead Avdić, Altić and Lozančić, is in the same situation. We are in a position to be MPs of the second order in this assembly. That's what I'm saying publicly. We're going to hold a press conference and we're going to hold a lot of things on that subject. It's embarrassing, not to say it's so untasteful to look behind Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's back now and look at my equipment that's thrown on the chair. Here you can get up and take a look, and I don't know where Mr. Ibrahim Đedović was dumped. That's one thing. Second, as a club of MPs, we cannot experience what I experienced today as I was about to go out and refer to three points of the agenda, to enter a reading room where I should expect what I read in Alice's Alisa from a wonder country, sitting five people, not me, not MPs, who won't raise their heads, and I can't get a chair to sit down and do the work that the people have chosen me for and for which I stand in this House. So I am publicly asking and informing you that we have concluded that at the next session of Parliament we will come to both clubs and will sit in the hall. He's not going to join this hall. If we don't meet the conditions that are the same as others
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7491	What conditions? What?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7492	Room, brother.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-04-0.u7493	So say it once, man. Thank you very much. So please nicely I'm closing today's session at 7:00 and 15, 16 minutes. 97 Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament only about this thing that Mr. Moranjkić was talking about. I recommend Mr. Moranjkić and all those clubs that don't have rooms to address the Administrative Commission of this House. It's the right way. It is therefore the Administrative Commission that needs to deploy space. There are simply not enough offices in the House of Representatives, and for the next session here we will prepare a report from the Secretariat to tell where the club is sitting and what is foreseen for these clubs that do not have special offices. Thank you very much. I'll see you at the next session. The session was completed at 7:20 p.m.
