ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7969	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 12th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome all of you and I welcome you to the 12th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Out of the total number of MPs currently owned by the House of Representatives, it is 41 MPs, because 1 MP should be determined to suspend the mandate and formally, because he has been elected as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Today, according to the report, Abdulah Nakaš is not present, then Mr Ivo Miro Jović, then Lagumdžija Zlatko, Lozančić Ivo. These are therefore four messengers who are not present. The other MPs are present according to professional service records. So of the 41 MPs, 37 MPs are present. It's 37 again. Mr. Zorić is here anyway. So 37 MPs are present in the O.R. So there is no Mr Abdulah Nakaš one, then Ivo Miro Jović two, Lagumdžija Zlatko three, Lozančić Ivo four. The others are present. Four out of 41 is 37 MPs according to the report. So this is the report you continue to keep track of the presence of MPs. I therefore agree that 37 MPs are present, so this House has conditions for normal work and full-time decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. We have subsequently sent you certain laws with a warning that there is a possibility that these laws will be included in the session agenda for the reasons that the proposings have submitted a request for urgent consideration. For these reasons, and also because our continuing practice is that before the session on consultations we prepare for meetings with the Extended College, we held a session of the Colleges in the expanded composition just before the beginning of this session at home. At that session, a draft agenda was agreed on by you on the benches today. As you've seen in the agenda, we don't have a record from last session. He's working, and of course you'll have a record at the next session. 2 The draft agenda you therefore received on the benches and I am now opening a debate on the agenda. Does anyone want to talk about the agenda? Mr. Nikola Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7970	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I will, in front of the motion under point 5, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have the agreement of the Club to give up our request and to withdraw this bill from the procedure normally, so that we think that other promoters will act in that direction, and given that the Council of Ministers has already launched certain initiatives and is working on this plan, we suggest that a conclusion be reached which will oblige the Council of Ministers to collect all our initiatives within a reasonable time in front of all our clubs of MPs and normally, with some consensus, come before this House with a new proposal of amendments and additions which would take into consideration the full initiatives so that we can then consider the law in full text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7971	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7972	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, under item 17, is in the draft agenda and the same amendment to the Electoral Law that I am proposing. In accordance with the arrangements similar to those made by Mr. Kragulj, I join myself. If the Council of Ministers will complete and speed up this issue on the agenda, I am also giving up on this with the conclusion that these amendments that I have proposed are also taken into account in solving the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7973	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? If no one ever picks up my word again, I'm closing the agenda debate. On the occasion of Mr Kragulj and Mr Moranjkić's initiative, I propose the next conclusion to this house. So these two dots are removed from the agenda, because the proposings have withdrawn the laws. So that's one. Under 2nd, Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the Election 3 Laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with consultations of course and with the active participation of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has practical experience in applying the Election Law and under 3rd. That all the initiatives that have arrived in this House be delivered to authorised applicants, i.e. by the authorising officer of the Council of Ministers, so that they can be taken into account when setting out the Amendments and Supplements, the Integrated Amendments and the addition of the Election Law that they are, in fact, the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both in the process of meeting the requirements of Bosnia and Herzegovina following accession to the Council of Europe and in the process of stabilising and joining the EU. Here's a proposal for my conclusion. I'm opening an argument at the conclusion. Does anyone want to talk about the text of the conclusion? I didn't get to write it, I formed it ad hoc. He's in a stenogram, and he can take himself off the stenogram just like I told him. If no one answers their word, I ask you who's behind that conclusion. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against this conclusion? There's no one here. Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 37 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, adopted this conclusion, and the adoption of this conclusion means the practical removal of item 17 and item 5 from the agenda. And I now declare that today’s session agenda is as follows: 1. Proposal for a decision to determine the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Borislav Paravac, 2. Selection of the first deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Law on Equality and Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article 105., 6. The request of MP Seade Palavrić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article 105 of the Emergency Procedure)., 7. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article 105) Rules of Procedure, 4 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina (as an emergency procedure, Article 105. Rules of Procedure), 9 / 1 Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on international and inter-entity road transport (Article 105) Rules of Procedure, 10. The request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (in an emergency procedure, Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System (Second Reading), 12. Proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition, (second reading), 13. Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, (Second Reading), 14. Imposing a General Law on Cooperatives (First Reading), 12 / 15 Proposal for a Law on Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposed by MP Sead Avdić, 16. Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Financial Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions on the financial operations audit carried out for 2001 (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) the Office for Civil Aviation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (d) the Archives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (e) the Ministry of Health of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (f) the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (g) the Institute for Accreditation of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (h) the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (h) the Office for Veterinary of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (j) the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communication, (k) the Institute for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Security, (c) Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina ( Financial Report from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002, 18. Business report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Financial Audit Office 2002, 19. Verification of the conclusion by 1. Plenary sessions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina held on 10 April 2003, 5 20. Adherence to ratification (a) Open Sky Treaty, (b) Supplements to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer, London on 29 June 1990, (c) Amendments to the Montreal Protocol on substances that cover the ozone layer, Kopen Hagen on 25 November 1992, (d) Amendments to the Montreal Protocol adopted at the 9th Meeting of the Parties, Montreal on 17 September 1997 and point 21. Proposal for a decision to determine with the 20th agenda, there are no 21st points of the agenda. And that would be the agenda of today's House session. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The motion for a decision to determine the termination of the parliamentary term of Mr Paravac was elected to the 11th session of this House for a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As the executive and legislative functions were incompatible under the Electoral Law, conditions were obtained to determine that Mr Paravac had suspended the term of office of MPs in the House of Representatives. You're the motion for a decision made by the Professional Service here on the bench. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for this decision. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, we move to a plea. I'm asking you who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 37 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, has reached a decision to suspend MP Borislav Paravac's mandate, and will be delivered to the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the Electoral Law to verify the new mandate, or the mandate of another MP who is next on the list of the electoral unit. That's how we ended up, ending point one of the agenda. We move to point two, which is called 6 Ad.2. The election of the first deputy chairman of the House of Representatives is from the Serb people's order. I will read to you ladies and gentlemen Members a complete article 4. The rules of procedure of our home that speaks of the selection of members of the Colleges of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina so that we can then proceed in the process. Article 4(1) says – After the MPs have made a statement, we have already done so, the House of its members elects one Srbin, one Bošnjak, one Hrvat who will perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the dom. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Each MP has the right under 2 to propose candidates for these duties. If there are more candidates for one place, the order of candidates will be determined by drawing. Once a list of candidates for each place has been established, it shall be accessible to the vote. The 3rd is said to be the first round of voting to vote for the chairman, then the first vice-president, and the second vice-president of the dom, and in the second round in reverse order. If more candidates for one place have not received the required majority of the vote, two candidates who received the most votes are repeated. b), 5. Pardon - The election decision is taken in principle by the majority for decision-making, with representatives of the political parties represented in the House in the event of a consensus, and if the consensus fails to vote in general, the vote is repeated. If no candidate, attitude 6 has received the required majority, the vote is repeated as a whole. And here it is necessary to call on a member who speaks about the situation if the chairman's seat remains vacant. So this is how Article 24 says: “The chair is automatically rotated without voting every 8 months starting with the election day of the chairman. And under Article 2 says – If the chairman is temporarily unable to attend the House's meeting of the chairman-in-Office, the first vice-president, if this latter is also temporarily absent, the duties of the chairman will be performed by the second vice-president. 7 And then there is also another provision that speaks, I would just ask the Service to help me find this provision of the Rules of Procedure, if one of the members of the College has stopped the mandate, then, of course, a new member of the College is elected in a manner and in a procedure as determined in the selection of members of the College. That is, I call on you, therefore, to lay down Article 4(2), that every MP has the right to propose candidates for these duties, so we are talking about the first deputy chairman of the Serb people's order. I'm opening a debate and I'm calling on the political parties to make proposals. Mr. Nikola Kragulj answered first. Here you go. Mr Miloš Jovanović answered afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7974	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comply with Article 18(2). Rules of Procedure, and using my right to propose before the SNSD Club for a candidate, i.e. for the first vice president of this house, I propose Mr. Nikola Špirić. Nikola Špirić, it is my honor to propose it because it is a man with significant legitimacy in this house, given that he has won the most votes individually in the elections, since the man who has long-standing experience in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since the man is always acting on the course of reform and the necessary changes, is on the course of building a single legal and economic system, a single market as an important environment for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the entry of Bosnia and Herzegovina into economic integration. That's the SNSD proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7975	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Therefore, that provision is in Article 18, and that member should read so – The College shall consist of the chairman and the first Vice-President and the second Vice-President of the House, and in paragraph 2 shall be said – in the event that the seat of the chairman, the first vice-chair or the second vice-president remains vacant, the House will elect one of its members from the same constituent people to whom it belongs and the absent chairor or vice-chair who will fill the vacant seat. So these are now all read in a stenogram of the Rules of Procedure which speak about how members of the College are elected. I thank Mr. Kragulj. So we have a proposal for Mr. Nikola Špirić. 8 Mr. Miloš Jovanović answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7976	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I want you on behalf of the SDS Parliament Club, and on the basis of Article 4(2). Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for the first deputy chairman of the Serbian People's House of Representatives, I would like to propose Mr. Novaković Momčilo, an MP in this House. I'll put his biography in short lines like this. He was born in 1955 in the municipality of Prnjavor. He's married. He's a graduate economist by profession. Before the war, he worked in the economy. After the war, he was president, or vice president of IO SO Prnjavor. In the previous two-year term, he was a delegate to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the president of the Serb People's Club of Delegates. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7977	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Who else wants to talk, suggests, talks? Mr. Petar Kunić. Has Gligorić called before, I apologize only. After that, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7978	Dear Presidency, I'd like to ask the House to take a 15-minute break before the voting procedure approaches.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7979	Like the president of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7980	It is in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7981	Okay. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go. Can we take a break now, no matter what the vote. Yeah. All right. I'm just asking, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7982	Mr. Chairman, Deputy, MPs, ladies and gentlemen present, I would like to exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure and, of course, on behalf of the SDP, also to propose Mr. Professor Nikola Špirić as the first deputy chairman of the Serb people's order. 9 I think it would be enough to say that Mr Špirić made a great contribution when it comes to Parliament and parliamentary procedure. We often disagreed with Mr Špirić, I mean in general, but believe me, the time has given for the right that he was right and I consider his initiative as an MP very brave, at some point perhaps at times it has crossed a certain dose, but believe that it is necessary to give recognition to the MP for it. At the same time, I think Mr Špirić, and Mr Kragulj has already said that he has received the most votes from our citizens individually, and I think it is a fair solution to say after Mr Džaferović, who I appreciate and respect, as well. Mr. Ragug also, that if we took that criterion and that fact, and I consider it very important, because the citizens we respect in this way would be correct that the MPs in some way want to influence you, give support to Mr. Špirić. Another big reason why Professor Špirić should be supported is if he did, although of course in Parliament we are not engaged, and we should do an analysis of the adopted laws and you will see that Mr Špirić had the courage to support, and I know of five laws, very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and let's say the SDS MPs challenged such legal projects. And if we're going to look at Bosnia and Herzegovina's functionality now, then we should certainly consider that fact. And thirdly, I end up, as an important fact about these processes and these reforms that we're talking about. I think a civil option would be useful to you in college. You could learn something about...civil options in terms of tolerance and one width and this progress that we are seeking, because in the EU you know that the family of the socialist international, or... Therefore, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman in particular, because you have a great influence in this House that we really all support Professor Špirić on that side and I am deeply convinced that he will also work out of the opposition the part that had this little sharper down to this one level that will be compromise, dialogue, political culture and tolerance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7983	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Jozo Križanović asked for a word. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7984	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, in order not to repeat what colleagues Kragulj and colleagues have Gligorić, I would like to say briefly that the SDP club will support the proposal to elect Mr Nikola Špirić for the first speaker of this House. We will support this from our sincere belief that Mr. Špirić will, by his efforts, contribute with experience to making our home even more efficient in his work and to accomplish 10 quality things that stand before this house, especially from the point of view of the reform changes that Bosnia and Herzegovina expect. With that belief, I would like to say that we will give our support to Mr Špirić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7985	I thank Mr. Križanović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7986	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, last time I was a member of the presidency I liked to hear, rather I asked before a statement at least a few words that those who have proposed say that they have seen Bosnia and Herzegovina and in general, because we are sitting at the end, we are getting paid for it, I would like now that two candidates are already known, I don't know if there will be any more, so that Mr Špirić and Mr Novaković both, here we have heard from Mr Gligorić that he is already in a certain way already told Mr Špirić that he advocated certain laws. I was in the same House where Mr Špirić and Mr Novaković were. So I know each other, but eventually if I do, most people don't. I suggest that both of them say a few words to the MPs to make it easier for them to make a statement. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7987	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Who wants to talk any further? Including the proposal, of course, and Mr. Jusufovic's invitation to the candidates. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7988	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, it is unusual for members of the College to present their special programmes when it comes to Parliament's development and relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but by respecting the right of MPs to ask candidates to say in what way they see the development of parliamentary relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am taking the opportunity first of all to ask you to make a decision in a truly casual atmosphere when it comes to fellow Novaković, when it comes to my candidacy. I've been in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament for a long time. I've been to both homes. I was at a time when it was a small permissive power of Parliament to earn the party's concerns that Bosnia and Herzegovina came up with important legal projects and at this most difficult time and work in the Council of Ministers I tried to, together with those who think alike or 11 alike, to travel the path necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina and to simply come up with state-run legal projects that lead Bosnia and Herzegovina into European and Euro-Atlantic integration. And when there is no boldness and different games have been played in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it seems to me that I have spoken out loud about the weaknesses and my own weaknesses of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament which you will admit and have not always been grateful. But whatever the vote is today, I have no reason to change. My job is to create an atmosphere with those who feel alike that this country is coming to the necessary legal projects. I am not angry when people do it more slowly, but it is almost certain that there is no dilemma that Bosnia and Herzegovina is on a good path to European and Euro-Atlantic integration, and it is up to us to cut that path short and whether it will last as long as it has been unnecessary. I'm prepared to make a contribution if you plead today that I fill that place. I'm ready if you don't make a statement that I'm making that contribution the same way. So here I am begging you that in one casual atmosphere, of course, and these election moments have always been solemn moments. There's nothing that needs to stay foggy or vague. So my way is that the state parliament comes to laws that are of interest to the ordinary man who lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I have to tell you, no matter when the debate was difficult, when the relationship between the entities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina was to be relaxed that I gave this story a tone that gave passage of the legal projects here. The way I've worked, the way you appreciate it today, you have a chance to say it's good or it needs to be changed. So in any case, whatever it is, it's my job to work on legislation, to cultivate, to keep first and foremost reach for the development of democratic relations, and to improve them, and no matter what option, count on me to be on that path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7989	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7990	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, has not been the usual in this House so far, and we know how we have done it so far, and usually it has been done differently than today. But I don't think this is a bad thing to do today. I think it's just as good and maybe we should practice more often, not just at this level, but at other levels, people come out and just say what they think. I must say, first of all, that if I was elected vice president, I would protect the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so what is here and the Holy Letter. I must also say that I will advocate all 12 of what should enable Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter Euro-Atlantic integration, so also in the EU, above all, and a partnership for peace. In that sense, me and the SDS Club both have misunderstandings and there are no positions that are in doubt. Of course, it all means one honest and honest agreement and three peoples and two entities and all of us sitting here in this house. Working in the House of Nations for two years together with Mr Špirić and 13 other MPs, or delegates, we tried to adopt those legal regulations that were necessary for what I am now talking about. Of course time changes. The framework in which laws are passed changes so that the current framework is also something different. Apart from us here, a very significant factor is the framework is an international community that we cannot avoid as a fact and that is what restricts those of us who act here. Of course, it's limited by one. On the other hand, it can also be seen as an incentive. So I didn't take this as a game. I don't think we should be running any programs here. I think that in a few words, this is how we should address you and, of course, invite you to choose one in the order of the Serbian people as Mr Špirić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7991	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7992	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers on behalf of the Mixed Club BOS-Working for improvement and I would like to inform the DNZ that we will vote for Mr Špirić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7993	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask you no longer to answer the word I am then acting on the request of the PDP Club and other political parties who make up this mixed club, because this is the latest Club in Parliament founded before the previous session, then I hereby set a break that will last, precisely please. So I'm closing the debate, and I'm setting a break by 11 and 15, and we're going to go exactly at 11 and 15 with the voting procedure. Please be at 11 and 15 in the O.R. Don't be late. /PAUZA/ We continue to work. The PDP Club president, Mr. Petar Kunić, requested a break. 13 Does Mr. Petar Kunić want to speak? Don't ask for the word Mr. Kunić. Well, then, please. We've closed the debate. Please. I'll dati you my word, but just so you know, we've closed the debate. Here's my word. Of course you are. I give you my word, Mr. Kragulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7994	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I appreciate that today's agenda is very large and that it takes a lot of time for the session to be brought to an end today, but given that the first vice president of this house is one of the important issues today, we are thinking and proposing, that is, we are asking for additional consultations of 30 minutes. In accordance with Article 62(1),
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7995	Do we have to take a break? Look, this is an unusual situation. After the break, a representative of the second club comes out and asks for a break. I would. Please just wait a minute. So the break was 15 minutes, now you're looking for a 30-minute break again. I'm out, please nice, just a little bit. So, I consulted with the Secretary of the House, no matter what this illogical situation is to me, I have to take a break from the Rules of Procedure. Here's Mrs. Secretary's warning me about it and I'm setting a break from 30 minutes and we're going on at exactly 12 o'clock. But don't be late, here at 12 o'clock. /PAUZA/Secretary informs me that we currently have 39 MPs present in the O.R. Two MPs are not present, Dr. Nakas and Mr Ivo Miro Jović. So 39 MPs are in the O.R. present. The president of the SNSD Club asked for a break. Is he looking for a word after the break? Don't ask. The debate is closed. We continue with the procedure. So according to the Rules of Procedure, we approach the act of voting. Please. Of course, Madam Secretary, that's what I thought. Thank you for mentioning that thing, but I was going to say that. I was just about to read the provision of Article 2(4). Rules of Procedure – Every MP has the right to propose candidates for these duties. If there are more candidates for one place, the order of candidates will be determined by scrambling. Once a list of candidates for each place has been established, it shall be accessible to the vote. 14 So please, we now need to do the jiggling here, which we will first declare to the candidate of the two proposed candidates, and on which we will be the second candidate. I, like this, call on the Secretary of the House, a person from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mrs Sonja, and I call on the representative of the SDS Club after they have given the candidate and representative of the SNSD Club to join and to take the lead of the Secretary of the House to scribble to see who will be the first candidate, who will be second. I think that's the way. Do you agree with that? Who's up for this? Put your hands up, please, to ease the way you're scratching. Thank you very much. Do you mind? I find the House unanimously decided to do the gnawing the way I suggested. Please approach the jiggling act and give me the results. I'm asking the secretary to inform the House about the gnawing results. Here you go, Mrs. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7996	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7997	May I have your attention, Secretary of the dom Branka Todorović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7998	Wait a minute. After the drawing process, the first candidate to be voted in the House for the first deputy chairman is Mr Momčilo Novaković, and the second cadnidate is Mr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u7999	You heard the results. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we approach the act of voting. So we'll vote first for Mr. Momčilo Novaković on principle for, against and abstention. And we will also vote, after that for Mr Špirić, on the principle of yes, against and abstention. I just want to draw your attention that these abstentions don't enter the quorum. So you know it well, and I owe that fact to mention it to you. We also have a practice that was present here in the House and the opinion of the colleagues from the former convenes related therefore to this procedure. 15 Approaching the voting act. I ask the MPs whom to elect Mr Momčilo Novaković as the first deputy chairman of the House of Representatives? Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you. I'm asking who's against it. Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Give me the results. Please, one of the MPs didn't vote. We have the following condition. Just a little bit, please. Of the 39 MPs, it was 18, it was 19, it was abstention 1. Are two were just you didn't see it well. Two were restrained, so I testify from here that two were restrained. Mr. Kunić and Mr. Muratović were restrained, therefore. That was the vote, and here I am. Please, nice. Yeah, he did, and I saw him lift from here. Please. There's no need for us to go to the entity. So please, the results of the vote. Please Of the 39 MPs voted 18, against the vote 19, two MPs were abstentioned and I find that Mr Momčilo Novaković did not receive the necessary parliamentary general majority. I ask you who is it that Mr. Nikola Špirić is elected the first deputy chairman of the House of Representatives? Did you count the votes? Please keep some charts. Did you win? Okay. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Did you count the votes? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you. Give me the results. Please, nice. 39 MPs are present, voting all 37. Mr. Špirić won. I'm sorry, I have here number 37 of this total collection. Excuse me, excuse me. Please, nice. There's no need to comment. All 39 MPs voted. In favour of 20 votes, 17 were voted against, two MPs were abstentioned and I find that Mr Nikola Špirić received general parliamentary support. We're going to a statement on the entities. I ask from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina who is to elect Mr Nikola Špirić as first deputy chairman? Did you count it? Did you count the votes? Thank you. I ask from Republika Srpska who is it that Mr. Špirić is elected the first deputy chairman? Did you count the votes? Give me the results. 16 Please be nice. By entities, the situation is like this. So from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it voted 13, it is more than 1/3 and Republika Srpska voted 7 in favour, which is also more than 1/3, and I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has chosen Mr Nikola Špirić as the first deputy chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Parliamentary Assembly. I call upon him to take the position of First Vice Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. MPs' questions and answers to Nikola's čestitati. The answers to questions asked at previous sessions were for questions from Mr Nikola Špirić, Mirsad Ćeman and Ruže Softe. Please comment on these MPs. Mr. Špirić, is he satisfied with the answer? Satisfied with the answer. Mr. Mirsad, may I have your attention, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. You're looking for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8000	I got this at this time two answers in writing. However, I am satisfied with the answers, but in response to the traffic regimes at the Izacic border crossing, in fact, for oil derivatives, or special burdens, it is said that this is the status of carrier in the area of Unsko-Sanski Canton. My question was not and I don't think that this is just about the status of a carrier in the area of Unsko-Sanski Canton, because it is through that crossing that other carriers from Bosnia and Herzegovina actually cross over, so that only this clarification should actually be said here and that in seeking a solution with the Government of the Republic of Croatia should actually go with the argument that it should not be put in a position alone, not in a proper position, of course, in a positive sense bring carriers from the territory of the Unsko-Sanski Canton alone, but from the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8001	I thank Mr. Mirsad. And we still have to ask Mrs. Soft Ruža are you satisfied with the answer? It says here at my place that you got the answer. So you haven't been able to see the answer yet. I'm asking you to take a look at him, then give us a comment at the next session. 17 We are now going to ask new parliamentary questions. Who wants to talk? First respond, sir. You didn't get the answers, sir. No, don't be too careful. You know the drill. Idati give you my word. It's no problem at all. I now ask those who have received answers and ask the Council of Ministers to deliver answers to those who have not delivered answers. Here you go. Mr. Duraković has his word. Here you go, sir. Let Mr. Živković prepare himself. After that, Mr. Elmir Jahić. That's the order of questions asked. After that, Mr. Moranjkić, we'll move on. I can't remember anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8002	I'll talk about this Mrs. Ruža if she didn't get it, she didn't actually get to read it, but since our questions are almost identical that this answer they gave her is one red tape and a general shame and I warn the departments in charge not to answer me like that. Because then, really, then, we're going to raise a question of concrete responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8003	I thank Mr. Duraković. After that, I gave the word to Mr. Živković Milorad. Then be prepared as I have already said Mr. Jahić, then Moranjkić, then Gligorić Evo. Remember the order. You will eventually come, Mrs. Palavrić. I've never seen you before.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8004	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you'll take a little bit of consideration for the answers to those questions, because I owe you one answer and one question from last time. Well, I don't think the service and the Council of Ministers will be able to get there. And here come the other questions. After the war operations in Iraq and the newly created favourable situation, I would say about the Iraqi people and all those who believe that the Iraqi people are not guilty, but their former leadership now, I am asking the question of the Council of Ministers, its President, and the part concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Does Bosnia and Herzegovina intend to join the UN Food Oil Programme? - Does the Council of Ministers intend to open up Iraq's debt problem towards Bosnia and Herzegovina? - Is there any intention of the Council of Ministers to help Bosnian Herzegovina firms rebuild and operate in Iraq? I'm asking for a written answer to that question. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8005	Thank you, Mr. Živković. You will, of course, copy it and forward it to the relevant services. Here's the next speaker. Who did I give my word to? Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8006	I don't have a new question. I'd just like to repeat the question from the last time I didn't get an answer to that question. I recall, so I asked for a report from the BiH institutions' auditors on the CIPS project that was done last year there, it seems to be in November. I asked for it last time to be delivered to us and to all MPs, and I'm sure later we'll ask for it to be included in the agenda. Please, let's really be effective on this. So when MPs ask the question, we get an answer at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8007	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mr. Moranjkić. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare himself. After that, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8008	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried, but I have certainly not been able to pass on to this House my initiative regarding the establishment of a temporary commission that is a little longer in the explanation, so in writing I will hand it over, and it is about the claims of citizens and legal persons of this country who do not enter the area of succession. Second. I've been interviewing this speaker for the third time, and I'm stressing the 5-6 of my questions that have been asked, and one only two days ago and a change of two months has not been answered. I ask the question is whether it's discrimination against MPs or whether it's something else. And the third thing I'd like to intervene here – I'm actually getting one of those same materials for days. You won't believe that the materials, the materials for this parliament I spent about 2.5 rolls of college, nonstop faxing me like a mill. Whenever I look at one of these same materials, and unlike that, we get here at Parliament certain materials that we can't get by. I don't think that's complete, I don't think that's right, and I think that should change anyway. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8009	I've heard of that remark, Mr. Moranjkić. Here's the last one, so I'll answer you. Some other people also told me the institutions that this is what I call on the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat to take account of this fact. They do not have to be overzealous and deliver the same materials several times. It's only enough once, but in time. Mr. Gligorić. Let's have Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8010	Ladies and gentlemen, this question has been asked before, and this is a military housing fund for former JNA members. I'm here to formulate it, and I'm going to turn it in in writing, but I'd really like to ask if there's anyone here from the Human Rights Department. More citizens asked me as an MP to solve this issue. And I went to the Ministry and I got an answer so bureaucratic that you can't solve anything at all. I would appeal to human beings to come to a solution, to come up with the Ministry of Defence and the competent Ministry of the Federation of BiH, but to come up with a solution honestly through coordination. Why am I saying this? In Republika Srpska, they went one step above the Federation of BiH. People who have managed to deposit with a bank in Belgrade in Republika Srpska such a former JNA member accepts, form a contract for him, and he resolves his issue. In the Federation of BiH, a man who has a solution to the House for Human Rights and has a payment card is wanted for a copy of citizenship, is sought where he was in '92, etc. You don't have that in Republika Srpska. You're all done. Ask for this information and you will see that all Hrvat and Bošnjak are members of the former JNA who only had a payment card, not a contract in Republika Srpska to resolve the issue at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. Check it out. Why don't you do the same, but you have a thousand obstacles within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that's honest. And in communication with citizens, it's just a problem. There is no respect for the solution to human rights. There's no respect for the payment card. And there's 100 reasons why they don't finish the citizen's job. This is what a lot of people here have asked. I also remember Ambassador Jovanović from and from some others. But you get dry answers from the Council of Ministers that really don't mean anything. You're probably giving it to a reference officer there so I don't appreciate anyone and I don't respect you and you get in a position to get an answer. I can also give you the answer you gave from the Council of Ministers, from the competent ministry which is absolutely not on the agenda of solving a citizen's problem. I can cross those facts, but I think this is enough. I want to be honest with you, we're dealing with these people's affairs. And check out my allegations. Ask for the same thing from 20 Republika Srpska from the Ministry of Defence you will receive, so you will see that everyone in the same position absolutely in the Ministry of Defence has solved the issue. There's a willingness, there's a will. A man doesn't come back to get rid of his question. It's cost-exposed here, and nothing can end. And, of course, it wouldn't be good for you to resist the Ministry if that wasn't the case, but to be on the lookout for the problem. And where the obstacles are to say there are obstacles. Call the minister. Do it, you have the opportunity to coordinate and help these people. It is pointless to ask so many times about the same thing and you get bureaucratic answers from no matter which BiH institutions. Is there anything we can do about this arrangement when it comes to the rule of law and respect and what is the most important interpretation of the rule of law? In Republika Srpska it is interpreted, in the Federation it is not well interpreted. Here, that's my attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8011	Give it to you in writing. Mrs. Palavrić. Just stick to your time for three minutes. It's you. I know, but there's a review agenda point. This is the point - parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8012	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I want to ask three questions. The first two are related to the so-called. military flats. - I ask the Ministry of Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina - is there more than 10 people whose House of Human Rights has decided to return to military housing? - Second question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Is it true that the SRJ annulled all contracts on the purchase of military apartments somewhere in '92. Or '93. A year. - And the third question, I won't write it, but I repeat it to the Council of Ministers I asked a question about two months ago to deliver a review of commissions and working bodies formed either by the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the international community. The number of their employees and the review of their salaries. I'm asking you to finally respond. The media is already interested in the answer to that question, and it is interesting that the Council of Ministers does not seem interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8013	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman. Let Mr. Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8014	I have one question. At the end of March of this year, the Federal Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees stopped issuing certificates on the basis of which humanitarian shipments from abroad were released from customs and tax payments, allegedly due to some 21 ambiguities in the application of the Customs Policy Act, resulting in a major stalemate in customs duties of other goods transported together with humanitarian goods. This only happens in some customs offices, and while there's no problem on the other one. My question is therefore directed towards the Ministry of Foreign Trade, i.e. the Resorable Competent Ministry, as well as the Federal Ministry – why are there differences in the application of the same regulations? Is there really some uncertainty in the application of these rules and what is being done that, in clearly recognizable situations, there are no major or no delays in the customs of goods? Lastly, namely, which is why asking my question cases suggest that nearly a month some goods have failed to be decorated just because of the vagueness or alleged misunderstandings on this issue. At the same time, of course, the suggestion that if there is indeed a dilemma that the sooner these dilemmas are resolved through, if that is the appropriate form of mandatory instructions by vertical, simply deliver to all the competent authorities. I don't know what practice is in customs offices in Republika Srpska, but in any case the practice and regulations on this matter should be evened out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8015	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Špirić, First Deputy Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8016	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, I have been given the opportunity to discuss the candidates' words. Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to thank all of them, but here's what I'm doing right now as part of these questions they voted for. You made me a great commitment to follow common policy guidelines. I look very gratefully at all those who have supported my choice as I look with great sympathy at those who voted in favour. My policy will continue to be that you who voted not to let down, and that those who got against win on joint projects that are of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And once again, I thank you very much. Together with colleagues from the colleges, I will cultivate the practice of negotiating in the interest of this parliament, in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now I'm going to ask a quick question. It seems to me that this parliament has the authority, that it would be good to receive a report through the Council of Ministers on the financial operations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's single TV service. This House 22 must take over those powers that belong to it and must simply call on all those who are obliged to report on financial operations to make the report. So my question is - when will the Council of Ministers ask for this report and send it to Parliament to inform us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8017	Thank you. Mr. Duraković asked for a word. Here you go. Let Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8018	I'm not going to ask the question, Mr. Chairman, but a kind of protest. I expect, of course, answers to those questions I asked at the previous session, but the protest concerns the following. Unfortunately, it may be a shame that I'm saying it or someone else isn't, but these fellow Members of ours keep on talking to these phones at this session forever. My conclusion is that this is the first to be premeditated, secondly primitive and humiliating in this House. And I'm asking you as chairman to ban the use of your cell phone at Parliament's sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8019	Mr. Duraković, I fully support you. In fact, you've come out now to support me, because I've asked for it several times so far, and I fully join this triple qualification that you've given that can characterize those who do so. I can't forbid it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8020	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8021	That's not my jurisdiction. Dom can do that. Please, Mr. Duraković, just to finish it, it's House's intelligence, and I'm calling the MPs to turn off their phones and not to use cell phones. We are doing our Rules of Procedure now, i.e. amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, and that will be one of the measures that will exclude us from the session of those Members, I will at least ask it to be so stated in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, therefore, for this support to introduce more order and seriousness, I would say in the work of this house. 23 Now now has the word of Mr. Sead Avdić, and let Mr. Atlić Muhamed be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests of the Council of Ministers, I propose the following that it means in the form of a parliamentary issue to request an urgent document from the Council of Ministers, a document that would practically sublime a forest of documents that is present today at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, I am apostrophe of two documents by OHR that is Business and Justice, as well as the simple proposals of the Commission Buldozer Commission which recently completed its work and also Piersipi strategy of economic development and some other documents. Which means that I propose that the Council of Ministers sublime these documents urgently and come up with a whole document that would offer to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples named – the Programme of Economic Reforms and Social Security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003. I believe that this is necessary and necessary and that the Council of Ministers should offer such a planned full document for the current year 2003 as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8023	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Muhamed Atlić would have been a exhausted list of speakers. Mr. Mirko Blagojević and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8024	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. Pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina who made pensions or pensions as you wish in Slovenia, it is likely that other countries are receiving pensions after the break-up of Yugoslavia, must personally collect pensions in Slovenia, receive pensions in tolars. These pensions must be converted, converted into EUR after conversion to KM dinars, stamps. Thus, they are very much damaged materially, for they are three times taken a commission of bankers. Secondly, these same insurance companies do not have health care in the Federation, probably in Republika Srpska because they are insurance companies in Slovenia, there is no convention between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the republics that were part of the former Yugoslavia. I think it's a very current issue and that the Council of Ministers must take it as an actual problem as soon as possible to resolve it. To facilitate otherwise this difficult situation of pensioners and given these miserable rights in the area of health care where insurance and pensioners are coerced together to pay for all services. Thank you very much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8025	I thank Mr. Atlić. Mr. Mirko Blagojević. Let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija prepare himself. And then you'd be a exhausted list of announced speakers. Shall we wear it out when? After that, Mr Muratović. Come in, brother. So Blagovjević, Lagumdžija and Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8026	Thank you. I'd like to refer one parliamentary question and ask the Electoral Commission to come forward on the matter, some to call the SRS dissociation, - were there any violations of the Electoral Law?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8027	Okay. Let me ask you a question. Here you go. Mr. Lagumdžija. Let Mr Muratović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8028	Dear colleagues from the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, I would first like to clarify, before I ask the question, we had a promise that at the session of the House of Representatives' agenda there would be an appropriate report or information with a debate and a possible programme of activities related to the Bulldozer Commission. So I don't know if this debate is going to be as we're told, as we asked in the Rules of Procedure, as it has been said here, then this issue is losing its meaning, and if not, then the question should be - are we going to get information about the Bulldozer Commission, in which we will be clearly specified what has been done according to the Buldozer Commission report, what is planned to do on this topic for the next 150 days since the end of the first phase, or what is thought to be done with those things that have not been realized? The second question is: Why haven't we joined my colleague Avdić in a certain way so far, why haven't we received the Operational Programme for Realisation of the document of work and justice, which was announced by the Council of Ministers in the course of its election? Since it's been through all the calculations of 100 of this council of ministers, then it would be good to finally get a document like that. 25 and the third question is: If he can't answer now, I think it would be good for someone from the Council of Ministers to answer at least indicative of this third question, if not, I withdraw his request for an oral response so that we don't have post-procedural problems without answering me. So the question is that at the last meeting of the Peace Implementation Council, it is concluded, I quote that a comprehensive programme should be developed for the name of the property acquired by criminal actions. The end of the quote. The question is, is this done? If it isn't when will it be? What does this programme contain and when will Parliament have it on the agenda? We should know the answer to these questions, because if we do not receive timely answers we will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, launch appropriate activities to do so as members of Parliament and as groups of people in Parliament who are willing to cooperate on this. So we'd like to inform the Council of Ministers that we'll do it if you don't do it, so we invite you to do it. I'm not telling you, one number of us in the Rules of Procedure has already agreed to do it. And finally I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman this is, I'm sorry there's no foreign minister, someone from his ministry, last time we found out 21+14+19=73, and there was 54. And then we have again received information about how many of these conditions for the Council of Europe have been met, how many are in progress and how many are not met. Now that number, that 54 has increased, but it hasn't reached 73 yet. I would really ask, this already exists irresponsiblely with the MPs. This is the second time after warning that we get information about such important things as meeting post-op conditions for the Council of Europe, that at the level of elementary numbers when you add up three things we get information from you that those three sums are some fourth numbers. If this is how we're going to go with meeting the requirements for the EU in 2009, then let's get ready for 2019, or how it's already being added to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8029	Sir. Hasan Muratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8030	Dear chairman, respected colleagues, I read from the media that the CRA has given or intends to give a frequency to PINK TV from Serbia-Montenegro. You know, I believe you know that it's not common for one country to give its frequencies in such a way and there is another satellite for such purposes used in the world. And for that reason, I ask that the Council of Ministers, or based on its own position, do so to prevent the CRA from selling our resources, or to request an assessment of the 26 eligibility of such a procedure by relevant media experts and cultural experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8031	I thank Mr. Muratović. Who else wants to ask a question? I am finalising the agenda of parliamentary matters. I ask the House on behalf of the Council of Ministers and others whose questions have been referred without delay to answer so far, and the parliamentary questions raised, as well as these questions raised today in the Rules of Procedure provided for. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the Agreement on the Unique Text of the Law on Equality and Gender Equality You know ladies and gentlemen MPs that the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives is that actually the homes have adopted the text of this law in, in fact this law in different texts. In a few members, then. We formed the Commission, the House of Peoples formed the Commission. The Commission was in session. You have received a report from the Commission. The head of the Commission outside our home was Mr. Jozo Križanović. I'm opening a hearing about the report. The text of the law is in line. If no one answers their word, we move to a plea. Who is it to accept the Commission's report and thus approve this harmonised text of the law? Did you count it? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. So I find that the House unanimously with 34 votes to adopt the text, namely the Commission's report, which informs us that a consensus has been reached on the text of the Law on Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to the next fifth item of the agenda. That's Ad.5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article 105.) You received the bill with a request for it to be in accordance with Article 105. That's the Council of Ministers' proposal. 27 I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who it is so that by Article 105. I'm sorry, we have a debater on board. Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8032	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8033	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8034	which I haven't heard from before, but I have a general remark on five of these proposed agenda points, those requirements primarily meant by the Council of Ministers. So I'm not reading them under regular 6th, 7th, 8, 9, this one for regular number 11, I'm not sure, but these four I'm sure of. What does my remark mean? I think we got, we should get the text of those members of the law that's changing. I may have been in a more favourable position to have received and received official messengers since 2001, 2002, when I was a member of the previous assembly, but means these amendments and amendments to the laws that were passed before 2001, i.e. I had no and difficult to find, i.e. to provide. And I think we should have gotten it, so I'm going to say the original texts of the law members that are changing so that they could be compared to the ones that are proposed to change. Thank you very much. And I would simply beg means in the future if we could mean that copies of those law members that are changing to get to compare what I've already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8035	I think the remark was also established that the motionary should take care of it so that MPs have a better view of what is therefore changing and what is being complemented by existing laws. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8036	Given the procedure under which we are considering this text obviously today will not be possible to intervene on the text, but yet what the stenogram says is doing I want the same 28 for some of our future practices to say two three things relating to this law, but in principle they can refer to all that we are considering in the future. The first thing is to list the official newspapers in which the texts of the law whose amendments and additions are previously published should be consistent, and if I have also consistently noticed this in Article 1 as it is a technical error, it may be missing, in addition to this code of the official messenger 4/97, 13/99 and 6/03, which are mentioned, there is also a missing mark for the official messenger number 41/02. That's one thing. Second. Legally, I think it should, however, but it may now be a late member, the content of Articles 2 and 3, so to say institution, i.e. to be placed in one member, because the amendments are precisely related to the two different attitudes of the same member. So, legally, it is more correct, and treći, in this regard, I have also submitted one initiative that includes some other ideas, both in this, and in future laws, it would be good that in the final provision establishing the obligation, i.e. the entry into force and the obligation to publish laws in the official messenger, it is consistent to delete, i.e. do not provide for provisions laying down the obligation to publish the state law, so to say other rules from the state level and in the entity official votes. There is no simple need, not to say from a banal which is not always a banal reason not to waste unnecessary paper and resources until I notice but, I notice it is already not consistent, i.e. consistent, nor in proposing these solutions through the laws that we have received. Look here in some laws we have a provision that says it will be published in the Official Messenger of BiH and entity and Brcko District, some of which are not. At least he needs to be consistent. I am of course in favour of that solution that I speak in principle will simply publish state laws and other regulations from the state level in the Official Messenger of BiH, and the assumption is that all those concerned and who want to be informed will be subscribed to the official newspapers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8037	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Špirić. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8038	Madam Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, I believe the Council of Ministers has taken note when it suggests that Article 105 that clear and short amendments are being made, and my vote will be to adopt these amendments and to supplement the Law on Citizenship under Article 105. There may be one legal gap since we have points 6 and 7 concerning amendments to the Law on Citizenship. If we adopt the urgent procedure at point 6 at no time, I have no doubt, then I do not know what the amendments to the amendments and amendments to the Law that 29 will probably not be published, because there is no possibility and it creates a conflict with MPs who would like to pay attention to point 7. And that's why I think it might not have been a good suggestion in the College that these two points of the same law today are at the same level in the same procedure, because that is, I don't know if it's legally possible. That's why I'm saying I'm going to support this Council of Ministers' position to adopt this law in accordance with Article 105's procedure, but this point 7 might have been better that I'm saying, maybe it would have been better if it had been at the next session when the law was published if the amendments concern what we're going to adopt today through these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8039	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8040	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I was about to predict what Mr Špirić was talking about. Maybe we could get out of this the next way. I don't know if Mrs Palavrić and the Council of Ministers had any communication, or whether it could have been summed up on the assumption that these changes and additions under Article 105 will be adopted at the moment as to how these changes and additions you propose will be involved. So, absolutely appreciating the MPs' initiatives to propose, initiate changes and amendments to the law, I mean for the consistency of the legal system and not to come to the situation as we came about the Electoral Law. We really need to find a model of coordination with the Council of Ministers. So that we can support the BiH Party will support everything that goes in favour of our citizens. It is clear that their situation is being strengthened, i.e. it seems more favourable to them when it comes to dual citizenship, etc., but we need to know whether there is one synchronisation between Ms Palavrić's proposings and the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. Let's hear each other's proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8041	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. So these are two separate laws, the Council of Ministers' law and Mrs Palavrić's law. Mrs Palavrić's law will be discussed as the next item of the agenda. So I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you who it is to adopt the procedure under Article 105. The Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Citizenship Act, as proposed by the Council of Ministers? 30 Who's in? I'm going to have professional services throw out my quorum status so we can see how long it's here when it's passed on to the law. 30 MPs. Dismiss all MPs who have left. Nine MPs have left the session from the moment of elections to this moment. Let the public be told which MPs they are. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any others who can handle it? There isn't. Give me the results. 30 in the O.R. They're all in. By entities. Who's from the Federation for? They're all in. So there's no need, I'm sorry. Warning. So I'm saying that we've set up a procedure under Rule 105. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. Who's up for the law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. So I find that the House of Representatives with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, a text proposed by the Council of Ministers. We move to the fifth point, to the sixth point of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The request of MP Seade Palavrić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article 105.) The request of MP Seade Palavrić and the very text of the Law you received before this session for a few days. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Palavrić is asking for a word. You got the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8042	Let me take a chance and give a little, give an answer to some of the questions that have already been asked here. Before that, I would like to say that because of our dignity, the dignity of the MPs, I do not allow my bill to be separated from the Council of Ministers' proposal, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. The Council of Ministers should, as a rule, be a proposing officer. We can also be legislators and we have the right to Article 105. 31 Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers did not treat the matter I treat in my law. The Council of Ministers went to member 23 and member 30th and new member 36th, and I treated Article 16(a), Article 17. It is said that Article 17 provides for the loss of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship by voluntary acquisition of another country's citizenship unless a bilateral agreement with the other country is concluded. We witnessed a few months ago that other countries most of them do not know the obligation to lose their own citizenship to gain their citizenship. Even less, they know the possibility to conclude bilateral agreements with us, and that leads to the situation that more than a million Bosanac and Hercegovac in the diaspora lose their citizenship to Bosnia and Herzegovina because we want to, not those countries, but us. Even Article 18 provides, whose amendment I also propose, i.e. erasing -- that a child who is fully adopted abroad and automatically loses his citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one underage child. Article 39 is also about that which predicts automation. Therefore, by gaining the citizenship of another country, the Bosnia and Herzegovina's national retains Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship. It is a kind of amendment relating to Articles 16, 17, 18 and 39. And in Article 24, there is inconsistencies observed by even the House of Human Rights. It is about the fact that it says: "Citizenship ceases on the day of the sending of the notice that his citizenship has ceased." - Well, that's nowhere to be found. In any legal situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in any procedure, you cannot acquire or lose any right before you are given a judicial decision on this matter. The change is so much so that it does not cease with the date of the notification, but that it ceases on the day of delivery of the judicial decision to the person to whom it relates. And Article 24 of point 4 is deleted, as he predicted these two possibilities of termination of citizenship by law, again that of the 17th and 18th, where BiH's citizenship grew, were lost only by gaining citizenship of another country. I believe that this law is not so complex, and it is urgent that a procedure under Article 105 is deserved, and I think it is possible to get out of this situation when, God forbid, my law is now going to come together and go to another home. It doesn't matter. Let the Council of Ministers unite him or I. It doesn't matter. Legally technically, who will perform, but it's important that we go to another home with one law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8043	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Novaković. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8044	Fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Presidency, here is a matter of a more principled nature and we do not, of course, enter into the business right of every MP to propose a law under Rule 105, or an emergency procedure. But it is not common, and I think it is very bad if we put in practice that MPs can actually adopt MPs' proposals to adopt the laws of Article 105 here. That's why I also suggested that the bill promoter withdraw the proposal under Article 105 and go into a short procedure. Now, before I see any reason to consider it as an emergency procedure, if it is taken into account that the first, first change is already regulated by the amendment of the law that we adopted very urgently before the end of last year for a period of 15 years. Now if it's 15 years of urgency that we have to, that we don't have time, but we have to do it by emergency procedure, then it's really incomprehensible to me. Other changes should also be considered. So all the consequences of these amendments, and therefore I propose that the legislator withdraw the procedure, and if he does not withdraw, therefore the Club of Serbian MPs is against the procedure under Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8045	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8046	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, I thought just before when I said that I was able to draw attention to something that was legally unclear to me. We passed the law under Article 105. The Council of Ministers, and I am sorry that Mrs Palavrić, as an MP, has not reached co-operation with the Council of Ministers to see if these remarks and corrections can find their place in the text. It'd be good. And we must look and it was logical and so far we have asked for the opinion of the Council of Ministers against the laws proposed by the MPs. So now I don't know how legally possible it is. We've passed one text of a law that hasn't been published anywhere. We have objections from MPs to the law that we have changed today by adopting what the Council of Ministers has offered. So I appreciate the real efforts of the MPs. There is a way out of this that Mrs. Palavrić's proposal goes to the House of Peoples, so that the law remains out of line and the Council of Ministers is contacted and the Joint Commission agrees. And that's why my proposal was to adopt what the Council of Ministers gave, and I'm not ready to vote for this law, not because I doubt that solutions are good, but that would be in collegiate with what I just did. Because these are comments and suggestions on a law that no longer exists because we've adopted amendments and additions. Here, therefore, I am really sorry because I voted only for the Council of Ministers' proposal, and I don't really think it's good for MPs unless it's a very urgent situation for all 33 to evaluate that by Article 105, or that there are more MPs or indeed that one MP, to cultivate practice that an MP comes before Parliament by procedure take or leave no good for Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8047	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8048	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues are two reasons why I went out to talk about this law as well. The first is really right away to say I support the intensities contained in the proposal for this law and I really don't think there's any reason for at least how I look at this thing not to accept these quite good solutions and suggestions. I allow, of course, that there are other elements that here someone has already given a hint that should be further examined, but as far as I'm concerned, I would vote this law from this moment on. However, I agree, for practical reasons, that it is unusual indeed the same law to change the same day, regardless of what it really is not to ignore these changes proposed by counterpart Palavrić. That part of the law that we have just changed by adopting a proposal from the Council of Ministers. So if there's any procedural logic, then there's it in that part. But on the other hand, it would still be uninvited to accept the same day of amending one law to two different ones, through two different proposals. For this reason, I do not know if Col. Palavrić intends to agree with it or not, but it would be quite right for me to accept that it is going into regular procedure and here because today it will not be possible to intervene with the amendments, but for thinking, although legally it may not be controversial, but it seems to me that in Article 4, when it comes to its proposal to correct the obvious wrong solution in the current law regarding the delivery of the notice to the person to which the decision is being made, it says – the date of delivery of the judicial decision. It is logical that this includes all forms, modes, delivery under the Administrative Procedure Act, where it is sometimes the form of delivery and emphasis on the advertising board, if other options for delivery are exhausted in a direct manner. This is just what I'm saying and because of the possible historical interpretation of such a text of the law that someone would not re-interpret, no matter what it was like to send a notice and literally apply it and understand the same wording on the day of delivery could sometimes be unimplemented if it was interpreted exclusively by the delivery of any person to whom it relates or to his authorised representative. Therefore, according to the Administrative Procedure Act, delivery may be by highlighting the advertising board. This is just for thinking, if we get into the amendment phase. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8049	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we by the Rules of Procedure must approach the plea procedure. So we're pleading first on the procedure. Is the procedure under Article 105. So I'm just going to say that I think it's possible both legally technical and nomotechnically, however you want to go with two amendments to the different legislators of the same law that come into force at a certain time after they adopt and for me there are therefore no legal technical problems of that kind. We just passed the law proposed by the Council of Ministers and that is, of course, good. So there's no procedure whatsoever, in my opinion. I'm now discussing whether or not to do so when it comes to Mrs. Palavrić's law, but dom is here to plead. We're pleading procedure. I ask you who is it that, under article 105, we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship proposed by Mrs Palavrić? Who's in? Did you count the votes? Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you, too. By entities. From the Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Are we gonna get along now or are we gonna go to college later? Thus, of the 32 MPs who were in the room 18 voted in favour, 10 voted against, the abstentions were four. The Federation voted 17, RS voted 2. There is therefore a general parliamentary majority and an entity majority of the Federation. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska so that the request for this procedure under this law goes to acquittal. So this will be done by the College within the deadlines foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. The alignment on this agenda point. We're going to the next item on the agenda. That's agenda number seven. Please, nice. Points 7, 8 and 9 are points relating to the Buldozer initiative. So point 7. is 35 Ad.7. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (expert procedure under Article 105). Rules of Procedure) You received the request in time. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the procedure. Who is it to consider this law by Article 105? Thank you very much. Who's against it? He's not against it. Abstained? There isn't. I find that unanimously with 32 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, we have established this emergency procedure. We're moving on to law enforcement. Who's up for the law? Azra, can you just count Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Stay for five minutes, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović in the O.R. It doesn't mean anything to you. Thank you very much. Do you mind? I don't mind. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Give me the results. How much? So unanimously with 32 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the eighth point of the Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina (by urgent procedure) So it is also from the Buldozer initiative. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Novaković is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8050	Of course we are fully aware of all the crowds that have been raised and all these media propagandas that have risen around this Commission bulldozer and the law that she is proposing, and in accordance with this, we as a club will also behave means in this home. But I want out of this place to warn you of something when it comes to this law that has not been implemented in practice. In fact, the Council of Ministers proposed a law that could not be implemented in practice. Either it will cause such problems, or much worse than those that were before this law. You can say that on a lot of examples here. From the example of changing members where, for example, in line transport, they are completely excluded
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8051	Free zones, free zones are now on the agenda. Come in later for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8052	And I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8053	Please, please. May I have your attention, please? So Mr. Novaković didn't follow. Please, MPs. Mr. Jahić, we're going to vote. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who's to accept the procedure under Article 105?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8054	Every law through a bulldozer needs to be passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8055	Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. How many votes is it for? How many is that? I find that with 29 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the other law from the Bulldozer Initiative. And we have this third one. That's, so we're going to the ninth point. We voted only for the procedure or voted for the law. I'm asking you who's in favor of the law? I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? So it was a procedure, and now we're voting for the law. So I also find that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 37 We move to the ninth item of the agenda. That's Ad.9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport (Article 105) That's the third bill from the Bulldozer Initiative. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Novaković is asking to continue the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8056	So I'm going to continue the discussion with an apology, of course, which was a little bit different in my materials. It wasn't here when I lied. So I'm not to repeat, I'd just like to point out the inability to apply this law in practice. In fact, the exclusion of entity ministries from line-to-line transport alignment practically leads to a situation where one general, one general confusion in line transportation will arise. Because those of the entity with transport that they have entity transport will constantly jump into inter-entity transport lines. And those from the state ministry have no way of stopping it, because they completely ruled out the need to get along with them, they agree with them on line transportation. We will surely be forced to change this law and it might be good if the Ministry of Traffic and the Minister of Traffic who is not here, and who probably doesn't have any experience in this, because if he did, he wouldn't do this. So you wouldn't offer a law like this, be able to offer amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8057	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Jovanović. Here you go. Well, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8058	Well, I'm going to rely on what Mr. Novaković was saying. Obviously, there was a discrepancy between the Bulldozer Commission and the Council of Ministers. What is concrete is what the Bulldozer Commission suggests is that here, specifically, it means that Articles 3 and 21 should be deleted. Laws on international and inter-entity traffic. But the Council of Ministers proposes something else. So this Article 3 means, in part, a change or part of a change, and Article 21 means a change in another form. So I guess this is where the Bulldozer Commission and the Council of Ministers had to be arranged. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8059	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Gligorić asked for a word. Here you go. May I have your attention, please? We'll finish this act and we'll give the order and then we'll take a break for the MPs so you can rest, if we have to rest, okay? But anyway, let's stop these frequent exits from the O.R. and focus our attention on what we're doing. So attention, please. This and the next dot, followed by a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8060	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Law on International and Inter-entity Transport, which the Ministry of Civil Affairs had previously worked on, may have been two or three years to wait for this law, and I remember this period of the law myself, and I personally worked at the time when I was Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, when it was in jurisdiction and it was certainly there and then chaired by Mr. Martin Raguž. I think that this solution that is now proposed here about the Buldozer Commission is a good solution because it was really a monopolitical position, about one group and the interests that are very much in traffic and transport, and that is why I think that this should be supported and that this is a good measure. Of course, interpretation and implementation of the law itself can always be talked about. There's never one law that's perfect. But I want to say that the man who worked on this at the Department of Civil Affairs is certainly one of the biggest authorities in the area of traffic that he has, I don't even have to call a man by his name. I believe that everything he did and what was suggested not to be against any discrimination of entity but even contrary to the introduction of a single order and the prevention of a monopoly position and when we talk about the entity and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina because, in the previous question, the procedure and by law always consulted with both entities and there was never a situation where these inter-entity lines or inter-state overlaps. And what order is there in the Ministry of Civil Affairs when I was then, I believe it's still left. I therefore feel that this remark does not stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8061	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. May I have your attention, please? I'm asking you who's to accept article 105's procedure for this bill? Who's in? Count the votes. Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. Did you add it all up? It doesn't matter what I can do now. I can't make it up. That I'm after him now by the police for not voting. I can't do that. I mean, he has a right not to vote. What now? We're going after the entities. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Excuse me. 39 From Republika Srpska who's in favour? You can hang up. I'm just asking. Write that down for me. We can move on. The procedure is therefore adopted. So I'll say it like this. Of the 35 MPs, 28 voted in favour, four were abstentions. He's from the Federation, what is this? 28 for. Please the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina again who's in favour? Please, who's in? I'll count now. Watch out. Thank you very much, Federation. Republika Srpska who's in favour? Pick it up again. How long is he from the Federation now? 8 is from Republika Srpska, there is 1. How much from Republika Srpska? Eight. So of the 35 MPs 28 for, the abstentions were four against no MPs. The procedure has a general parliamentary majority. By entities. Federation 21 for. That's more than 1/3. From Republika Srpska 8 for. That's more than 1/3. So this procedure was adopted. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. Who's up for the law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you, too. So, the general parliamentary majority is like this, there is. From 34, 30 is for 4 they're restrained. We're going to the entity majority. So we vote on the law. Who's in favor of the Federation? Thank you. If you count it? Yes, it is. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? How much? And eight were from Republika Srpska. Get Republika Srpska back on your hands. Come on, guys, what is it? The Republic of Srspa who's in favor of the law? Put your hands up again, please. Two, four, six, eight. With Špirić eight. Please, Republika Srpska. So Federation 22 for Republika Srpska 8.. I Konstatuj that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 34 votes therefore for, with 30 votes against, with four abstentions and with an existing entity majority of 22 from the Federation and 8 from Republika Srpska, after adopting the procedure under article 105 also adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and 40 Inter-entity Road Transport and thus ended its obligations when it comes to the Buldozer initiative. We're going to the tenth item of the agenda. That's Ad.10. The request of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (in an urgent procedure) Ladies and gentlemen Members, you are the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, received by my notice that this will be on the agenda today and of course included it today in the agenda. I am opening the debate, and here is Piter nikol, governor of the Central Bank of BiH, who expressed his desire and the need to address this home and I call on him to address us on this law. Let him speak to the Governor of Central Bank. This is the Central Bank Act. Let me explain, he explained this morning to the College. I've been listening to this for the fourth time, but some people listen the first time, so listen to it. Please be nice, so things are important. Mr. Nikol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8062	Thank you very much, President, thank you for giving me this opportunity. The main amendments in front of you are to Article 36. The Central Bank Act. The amendments related to the organisation of a mandatory reserve on commercial banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the amendment comes from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Governing Council and have the support of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. So these are our proposals, the proposals that have been prepared with the previous very detailed analysis of the existing provisions. But the need for an emergency procedure stems from the fact that the IMF has decided to adopt the amendment to Article 36. The Central Bank Act shall be preceded by steps, steps preceding the review of the Stabbaj Agreement, on the board of the IMF, which means that these amendments must be adopted before the review of Stendbaj is put on the IMF Management Board. However, I will repeat these suggestions once again. And we suggest them for two main reasons. The first is to improve and make this obligation more fair and effective. Another reason is that we need to start paying attention to a strong increase in loan approval in Bosnia and Herzegovina and possible implications on the balance of payments. 41 Last year, the increase in loan approval in Bosnia and Herzegovina was extremely high. The central bank believes that there are many good explanations for such a thing and that it is quite common and that it is positive in a country that is going through a period of transition in which you come from a rather weak banking system to a position where the banking system is quite normal. We also believe that we must be prepared to use this mandatory reserve instrument, more actively in the future, if this stop, if this rate of increase in credit approval continues to grow. It is the only instrument of monetary policy that we have under the Central Bank Act and many of the neighbouring countries have already increased the minimum reserve rate over the past few months for the same reasons that I have listed here. We propose four changes to Article 36. The Central Bank Act. I'll explain every change very briefly. The first amendment extends the base on which the mandatory reserve is calculated to include deposits expressed in foreign exchange assets rather than just deposits in KM. The reason for this kind of change is that the current provision actually has a discriminatory attitude towards KM. It is as if you would introduce a smaller tax for KM, not on EUR-o. And it's not very reasonable to do that now that we're trying to promote KM. We're not trying to give KM any leverage, we're just trying to remove this unfavourable position of KM. Commercial banks as well as commercial banks will still have the opportunity to decide whether to keep their deposits in KM, EUR or any other foreign currency. But with this change, a mandatory reserve would be accounted for on all deposits regardless of the currency in which they are expressed. The second change we propose is the cash held by commercial banks in their vaults will no longer be used to meet the mandatory reserve. We believe that this step is necessary to make mandatory reserves effective. The central bank is simply unable to monitor or check the cash that commercial banks keep in their vaults. Especially now that some big banks have 40-50 units of their branches all over the country. We have no indication that commercial banks have so far given the Central Bank false information. But we don't think it's properly intended for such an obligation that we can't verify in any way. We've discussed these changes with commercial banks. Banks fully agree with the first change, which is including a foreign exchange deposit in the basics. They're less happy with the second change. So the inability to meet the mandatory cash reserve they hold and some banks have already said that such a change may lead to an increase in interest rates. But the current and fourth changes we're talking about will in any case remove any need for commercial banks to increase their interest rates. The third change refers to the minimum reserve rate range that we can determine. Currently, the law says the rate can be between 10% and 20% and the current level 10, the current level is 10%, so that's the minimum rate set by law. And the first two changes have an impact on the increase in the mandatory reserve in banks, and if 42 left the rate at 10%, then the commercial banks would have a reason to appeal. Thirdly, please remove this lower rate, not increase as much as we asked of you last year. The Governing Council of the Central Bank would make a concrete decision on the level of the rate, but I can guarantee you that the rate will be less than 10% which will help to neutralize this provision, which will throw out cash, which will no longer be able to meet the mandatory reserve. And the fourth change relates to the compensation paid by the Central Bank to commercial banks on their reserves. At present, this provision is very precise and the effects of the current provision are such that we pay the commercial banks a very low fee on their deposits they hold with us. This is partly one of the reasons why commercial banks hold significant assets in Germany, Austria, where they earn money, receive a certain interest on their assets. We suggest that such a provision be abolished in order to make a general provision that would allow commercial banks to pay compensation to the total level of deposits. And in this case, a concrete decision will be made by the Central Bank Governance Council. But my proposal will be to pay compensation at the total level of the reserve, and that will remove one of the reasons why commercial banks keep their assets out of the country. When you see all four parts of this change, you'll see that there's absolutely no reason for these changes to the commercial bank to increase the interest rate. The second amendment concerns Article 3. The central bank law. I think this is a very important member of the law because it determines the independence of the Central Bank. The Central Bank Act imposes a series of obligations on the Central Bank. Also, the Central Bank Act sets out a series of limits to the Central Bank, so that does not mean that the Central Bank is independent of doing everything it wants to do. We with the Central Bank Act have very explicit obligations as well as restrictions and Parliament can change these restrictions can change, and guidelines by amending the Central Bank Act. Or Article 3. According to the Central Bank Act, the Central Bank is independent of its work. I think that was very important for the effective operation of the Central Bank. There are currently certain confusions in Article 3 between different parts of Article 3. The Central Bank Act. At least in the English version, the initial sentence is very clear that the Central Bank Act is the one that determines what we can do, what we can't do. But later on, the article implies that such a type of work could be determined by any other law. We do not believe that this was an actual intention, and it is actually unconsistent within the framework of Article 3 itself, so that although we propose only one word to be added to Article 3, the evaka is such as to explain that the independence of the Central Bank is such that it cannot be influenced or taken away under other laws and can only be changed by changing the Central Bank Act. And it is still within Parliament's power, but it must be implemented through the Central Bank Act. 43 The Central Bank strongly supports these amendments. For Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also important for this review of the Standaj arrangement, which is actually required that these amendments be treated according to an emergency procedure, and I therefore suggest that these changes be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8063	I thank Mr. Nikol, governor of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8064	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we express our gratitude to Mr Nikol for showing as a processor of the Law how to explain and fight for legal projects in this House which could not be addressed to the legislators of this law, therefore to members of the Presidency or to some of their advisers, experts in this area that are not here. We also express dissatisfaction on condition, i.e. we ask - is the overall procedure consulted by the Council of Ministers or is it more specifically said by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury which, as it is known, has received certain powers in the area of finance? So anyway, we think that this level of change is useful and we're going to support it, but here's the two comments we thought we needed to point them out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8065	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We're pleading procedure. Who's to accept article 105's procedure for this bill? Did you remember to count the votes? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? How much. Of the 34 MPs present, everyone voted in favour of the procedure under article 105, and I realize that we voted in accordance with Article 105. Are we moving on to a statement on the very text of the law? Who is for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. 44 I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 34 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've reached point 11, but we promised to take a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 14 and 30 minutes, but please be precise here at 14.30. Break by 2:30. I'm just asking the Service to tell me what the condition of the quorum is. [[PAUZA]] There are 30 MPs in the O.R. right now. We can keep working. We're moving to the 11th point of the agenda. That's Ad.11. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Transfer, regulator and operator of the electricity system is in the second reading of Dama and gentlemen MPs, as you know the proposal for this law for the first time did not have an entity majority in the first reading, so a process of harmonisation was carried out in the College of the House where there was no consent. At the 11th session of the House, on April 9th in the second round of the proposal, the vote was adopted in the first reading. So now it's another reading. There was no amendment to the law. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Now we're talking about amendments. Since the amendment is gone, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I ask you who is to pass this law? Let the service count the votes. Okay. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you, too. Give me a status. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who's in favor of the Law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. From Republika Srpska who's in favor of the law? Thank you, too. Of the 30 MPs that were in the hall 19 voted in favour, six were against it. The abstentions were three. The law has general parliamentary support. The Federation voted 11, so more than 1/3. Republika Srpska voted 10, also more than 1/3. 45 I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Law amending the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System. We're going to 12 points on the agenda. That's Ad.12. Proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition, second reading At the 11th session of the House of Representatives, the bill was adopted in the first reading. Now it's second reading. I remind you that, since you got it, Mr. Momčilo Novaković submitted amendments and 11 amendments to the text of this law. In fact, he renewed amendments that did not receive support on the competent commission, and he in accordance with Article 94(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall have the right to do so provided these amendments arrive 48 hours before the sitting. All these conditions are therefore met. So I'm opening a debate on the Law of Interrogation, Marking and Marking Handguns and Ammunition in Second Reading. Who wants to talk? Just give me the amendments, Mr. Novaković, so I can continue the process. At my place, I'll give it back to you, so I don't ask for mine. Doesn't anyone want to answer the word? I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on Mr. Novaković's amendments. I ask you who is to adopt the amendment and Mr. Novaković? Did you count it? Yes, it is. Who's against the amendment and Mr. Novaković? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who is abstaining from amendment I? Did you count it? Thank you very much. So from 33, 9 was for, 13 was against, 10 were abstentions. The amendment did not receive general parliamentary support. So he didn't get most of it. We're going to Amendment II. Who's for Amendment II, Mr. Novaković? Thank you very much. Who is against Amendment II Mr. Novaković? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who is abstaining from Amendment II? Thank you very much. 9 for, 13 against, 10 abstentions. The amendment, 33 are in the O.R., didn't get the required majority. 46 We are going to Amendment III of Mr. Novaković. Who is it to accept Amendment III of Mr. Novaković? Who's in? Did you count it? Did you? Just tell me, answer me that I know what's going on. Who is against Amendment III of Mr. Novaković? Is it over here? Thank you. Who is abstaining from Amendment III? 6 for, 12 against, 11 abstentions, 33 in the O.R. The amendment didn't receive support. That's why the amendment didn't fail. Amendment IV. Who's for Amendment IV Mr. Novaković? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you, too. Nine for, versus 13, abstentions seven, 33 in the O.R. The amendment didn't receive support. Amendment V Mr. Novaković. Who's for Amendment V? Thank you. Who's against Amendment V? Thank you, too. Who's being held back? Thank you, too. 9 for, 12 against, abstention 10, 33 in the O.R. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We're going to Mr. Novaković's VI amendment. Who's for Mr. Novaković's VI amendment? Thank you very much. Who's against the amendment? Thank you, too. Who is abstaining from amendment VI? Thank you, too. 8 for, 13 against, 9 abstentions. The amendment didn't go through. We're going to Amendment VII. Who's in favour of Amendment VII? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's against Amendment VII? Thank you very much. Who are the abstentions? 8 for, 12 against, 12 abstentions, 33 are in the O.R. Right? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment VIII Who's for Amendment VIII? You're the Munibe that it goes on the entity, right? All right. I only apologize. Thank you very much. Who's against Amendment VIII? This is what you two agreed on. All right. Thank you very much. Who are the abstentions? Thank you, too. Give me the results. 47 you will tell me. So 8 for, 13 against, 10 abstentions, 33 in the O.R. The amendment didn't receive support. We're going to Amendment IX. Who's for Amendment IX? Thank you. Who's against Amendment IX? Thank you, too. Who is abstaining from amendment IX? All right. Thank you, too. 8 for, 9 against, 14 abstentions. The amendment didn't get the required majority again. Moving on to Amendment X. Who's for Amendment X? Thank you. Who's against Amendment X? Thank you, too. Who is abstaining from Amendment X? Thank you, too. 9 for, 12 against, 10 abstentions, 33 in the O.R. The amendment didn't get the required majority. And we have Amendment XI. Who's for amendment XI Mr. Novaković? Who's against Amendment XI? Thank you very much. Abstained? Who's being held back? 10 for, 12 against, 10 abstentions. He didn't get an amendment, 33 in the O.R. The amendment did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. We're moving on to a statement on the law as a whole. So no amendments were adopted. The text of the law that we got from the commission. I'm asking you who's in favor of the law? May I have your attention, please? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? There aren't any. Who is abstaining from the Law? Thank you, too. We're going after the entities. Who's from the Federation of Law? Thank you very much. Who is from Republika Srpska for the Law? Thank you very much. Give me the results. So of the 34 MPs for the Law in the House's general statement, 28 voted. It wasn't against him. There were six abstentions. The Federation for Law voted 23 MPs, which is therefore more than 1/3, and Republika Srpska voted in favour of the Law 5, which is more than 1/3, and I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System. 48 I apologize, please, that, therefore, I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition. So the law was passed, because this was a second reading. I wasn't wrong when I was talking about electricity because it was adopted. I only confirmed it the second time, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8066	It's not bad to hear it more than once.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8067	Oh, it is. Okay. We're going to the 13th agenda. That's Ad.13. Proposal for a Law on Plant Health
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8068	Other Reading
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8069	Thank you, fellow Špirić. And this law was adopted in the first reading at the 11th session of this month. The law was in the commission phase. The Commission had 30 and 23 amendments, respectively. They became an integral part of the text. So you got it. There are no amendments to the plenary phase of the MPs. The law is in the second reading. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We therefore vote in favour of the Law with amendments which the Commission has classified as an integral part of the text. Who's up for the law? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thirty-five present. For the vote of 33 MPs, there were no MPs and there were no abstentions. I therefore find that the law has been passed and there is no need for entity voting, because in most of 33 there is a necessary entity majority so that I realize that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Law on Plant Health. So this is a second reading and the law is passed. We're going to 14 points of the agenda. That's 49 Ad.14. The proposal for a general law on cooperatives is therefore in the first reading. He's the promoter of the House of Peoples. In the procedure in this home he was admitted in 3.12.2002. It was sent to the MPs on 20.12.2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 31.12.2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is responsible, which also produced a report sent to lawmakers on 8 April 2003. So it's about the law in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to accept the Law in the first reading? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you, too. Who's being held back? Thank you, too. From the Federation, who's in favor of the law? Federation for? Thank you very much. Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you, too. There are 35 MPs present. He voted 31, against the vote of four abstentions. From the Federation 13 voted in favour, Republika Srpska 8 voted in favour. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina passed the Law on cooperatives in the first reading. We're moving to 15 points on the agenda. That's Ad.15. Proposal for a law on labour and employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, MP Sead Avdić's proposal The Law was adopted in parliamentary procedure, first reading, the Law was adopted on 31 December 2002. It was addressed to MPs on 13 January 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 5 February 2003. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, whose report was delivered to MPs on 9 April 2003, is in charge. I'm opening a debate on the text of this law in my first reading. Who wants to talk? Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8070	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I would like to point out a few moments regarding this law. First, let me say that this law has not been accepted uniformly on the Commission, the Constitutional Commission. So one part of the membership from the Constitutional Commission felt that there was no legal basis for the adoption of this Law. Secondly, I think the law exceeds the authority of BiH institutions. 50 Thirdly, entities have passed the Labour Act where all these provisions are covered, almost all the provisions that treat this Act. The fourth entity has been working with international representatives. Here entities are treated in fact as Brcko District. So there are huge differences in legal status. Brcko is under BiH's exclusive sovereignty, while entities have their responsibilities. As I pointed out, the text of the Law exceeds that of jurisdiction and even establishes a hierarchical structure at certain times, although as you know the Constitution, the division of competences, i.e. the precedent of jurisdiction for the benefit of entities, is precisely established. Secondly, the Law has some content of certain provisions that are not acceptable. For example, Article 34 is almost unacceptable. Point 3 when a worker is 65 years old and 20 years old, he or she is 40 years old, who is an insurance worker, if the employer and the worker do not agree otherwise. So there's an open possibility that you can work as long as you want. I think that we are not in such circumstances that we allow the work of people who finish years of internship, or years of life in terms of unemployment, and we need to take more care of young people. The article 54 is unacceptable and I mean really the one who created this norm I don't know what he was thinking. The collective contract can be... on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the territory of entities, the Brcko District for an area of one or more cantons, a certain part of one or more employers. Until maintenance is formed and... on the part of the employer can be carried out by the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So would all trade unions which, therefore, are bound by this provision of the law by all trade unions formed on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina to conclude a contract with the government, that is, how it goes in the trium... So the law still has provisions that are unnecessary that fully repeat entity laws and I think it would be the happiest solution to refer this law to the Council of Ministers to show the Council of Ministers about the text of this Law, of course primarily taking care of the constitutional provisions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8071	I thank Mr. Kunić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8072	Ladies and gentlemen, considering this is the first reading, so here's what I'm gonna talk about in principle, not details. And that means we in the Constitution of BiH have exactly the tax responsibilities that should be respected if it is in accordance with the Constitution. On the other hand, we have realities, we have life, there is, we need to make a normal functional Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I suggest that given that the Employment Act is actually one of those that of those ten tax-based competences explicitly does not exist. 51 How do we get past that? I also said that on the board with a desire to find a solution. We have everything in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina planned. Article 5 The Constitution of point 5 says – everything the entities agree on. This is one area very important for meeting certain means of standards and conditions that can be subject to that point. There will be a lot of such laws that will be a problem here again, and we will always refer to the constitutional basis as something we have not previously solved. I would ask the College, on the one hand, to make up all the laws that will come normly to Parliament, and to see at the same time, also means our leaders of political parties, especially those represented in the House of Representatives or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, who have made it clear on the one hand -- we support the entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, which includes the adoption of some laws, including the Law on Employment proposed by MP Mr Avdić. Now we're between two extremes. Normal people can find a solution. We have a solution in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we don't want to apply it. We think it's a long way to go. I think it's shorter if there's political will. We have political will on one side, where politicians who make up the assembly majority say we will. And there you have 91 conditions after, according to Professor Azra, they took us on loan to the Council of Europe. We need to meet 91 conditions. We have a road map on the other side. 18 of those conditions we partially met. All of this does not have those or partially has 10 tax responsibilities in the BiH Constitution. And that is why I think it would be good for the College to finally see what it can do to help in the sense that this is unblocked, while at the same time it does not violate the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina which provides us with such an opportunity that we can find absolutely every solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I wanted to in principle, chairing means saying with a desire to find a solution, although we also consider myself at this point, which Professor Kunić also said that it would be good to return it to the Council of Ministers and that in this direction they also engage and help us find this solution for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8073	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Let Mr. Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8074	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, reminding us that we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on the basis of Article 95, so it is the first reading, and I remind you that point 1 of Article 95, respectively, says that the debate in the home will begin with the first reading on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. I'm about to discuss my discussion with these two points, which, therefore, indicate this Article 1 95 position, the necessity of laws and principles. A fellow professor Kunić correctly found in his definition that the Constitutional and Legal Commission was mostly 52 votes, but which gave business and correct thought to the existence of a constitutional and legal basis and it is not disputed. As far as the necessity of the law is concerned, I fall within the circle of those who, in the light of the provisions of such a law as they are, I believe that it is a far broader range of issues and responsibilities that can be directly implemented by the Constitution, even for this law, rather than, let me say, to some at first sight, or, in some other reasons, motivated as they are willing to admit it. It is not disputed that there is a constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of laws at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and by the application of, let me say, the procedure that implies the transfer of competence from entities to state authorities. In a concrete case, however, I am thinking and as a lawyer, I also believe that for this law there is, to say, the original jurisdiction in the Constitution of BiH, which the legislator rightly stated, and that there is a necessity for the adoption of one law at the level of the state, arises, among other things, from the fact that in the legislation of labour law in BiH and today, therefore, both in the other entity and, if you want the Brcko District, there is a difference in certain, and also in certain elements of the essential institutions, which is not logical to the state of this size and total relation that we should cultivate and cultivate, in particular, the application of international conventions, both those in the area of the International Labour Organisation, or the Convention in the field of labour legislation, is equally applicable to one and the other entity. Therefore, even when there is a possibility of different regulation of certain issues, it is better and it is necessary to take advantage of the possibility that, in the interest of finally citizens who need to draw rights and also obligations from labour legislation, as much as possible to level the regulatory framework in this area. That is, therefore, why I support it, on the basis of Article 95(1), an approach that requires the adoption of labour law at BiH level. As far as the principle is concerned, one of the built-in principles is and, let me say, the unification of certain rights, which is also a sufficient reason for itself, in order to accept the logic applied in proposing this law. I agree, and let it remain for this later phase, the amendment phase that the text of the law can be built up positively, among other things, I think it is very lucid to notice this observation, which Professor Kunić pointed out about in relation to Article 34, related to the work experience, i.e. going to retirement and the possibility of continuing to work over certain years of work, etc. but let it remain, in fact, that amendment phase when it can be intervened by making constructive proposals to correct the text of the law as it is and, I am going to, it is possible, in the follow-up, therefore, to come up with some of its proposals to build this text in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because some things are finally, in addition to those which clearly may need to be arranged differently, perhaps not sufficiently clear, so should be specified. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8075	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr Špirić Nikola has a word, and let Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8076	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that today's atmosphere, which is, after all, on the line of adoption of the law, to be used. I would like to congratulate my colleague Avdić for making a great deal of effort to write the law, but I must say that it is an important system law project, so that goes beyond the possibilities of both one MP and one party and one club. I would not, and it seems to me that what Professor Kunić was saying on the trail and Dr Gligorić that today we would try to create an atmosphere so that the law does not refuse, and that we are scrambling the atmosphere to come to a legislative project, which may be indicative at the state level, so I would pray to my colleague Sejo Avdić, you see there is controversy, whether there is a constitutional basis, whether there is no, that the legislative project is going towards the Council of Ministers to ask for a view of the Council of Ministers, that today we do not declare ourselves, so we do not conclude the debate on the law, but that it is working on creating this mood, and even if we need to make these necessary contacts, if we should, I think that they should be done with entity governments. I think we should take advantage of the good mood, appreciating what Mr. Avdić was doing. So I ask him, therefore, at least today we need to have a debate here, in the end to make a statement of the law, and we haven't done anything, but in the interest of making the law pass, I ask my colleague Avdić that, if, of course, he appreciates that what Professor Kunić was saying is on track, so that the law goes towards the Council of Ministers, it is certain that it is a system-based legal project, it is certain that the Council of Ministers will have their own vision, probably, useful suggestions and that we will get a better law on what their colleagues were talking about. I would, in that sense, be prepared today to, let's say, conclude that we do not plead. I'm afraid if we approach, so I'm afraid if we approach the vote today that we'll end up with this law, and it's not, you've seen it from the discussion, it's not our goal, so my request to my colleague Avdić, who, surely, has made the greatest effort to write this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8077	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Sead Avdić got the advantage of, you got the advantage as a promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8078	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I appreciate the discussions that, in general, were on the good side and, above all, with the aim of adopting this law at BiH level. Surely, this law, which is a systemic character, cannot be the result of a single MP, not a single scope and capacity of a single man can reconcile everything necessary and necessary to define, or to design such a single legal project, which means that a union expert group participated in the legal project and we had part of a public debate in BiH, which means, the law that is before you is, will probably be introduced with a number of amendments that simply resulted as a result of a public debate and, in this context, Dr Kunić has the full right from the aspect of Article 34, which we have noticed or, simply equating entities with District 54 Brcko etc. but these are details that do not disturb those objectives that the law needs to achieve, and above all, it is only further argument, that it is the obligation of this Parliament to take this law seriously, seriously, and simply try to adopt it, which means that we have committed ourselves there in '98. The Madrid Conference, or the Peace Implementation Council Convention, should simply until 15 May 1999. May 31st, 1999, respectively. the year to adopt this law at BiH level, and to make standards read, and the experience of the European Union should serve as guidelines in this area. If I have to repeat this sentence, we have committed ourselves last, last session of Parliament, focused on political energy that we will work on, simply, the path of integration as a BiH country, as a full member of the European Union, which means no more discussion, conditionally speaking, whether or not we will insist on this path, but simply that is the long-term goal of BiH's policy, including European integration and simply enabling BiH to be a full member of the European community. That's one thing. Secondly, we are meeting these 91 forward conditions of the Council of Europe, the Vaj-pepper White Paper, which defines 6,400 regulations of the European Community countries, which means it is all a heritage and tradition to be implemented in the field of BiH, and on the other hand we have what we signed 65 conventions of the International Labour Organisation, in particular 88 and 122, which governs the employment intermediary at the level of one state, which means that by arguing in this way, in addition to the positions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Human Rights Commission, objectively this law has its place in the legislative procedure of the BH Parliament and in this context, I should certainly repeat once again that it is necessary and necessary at the level of BiH such a legislative project. That's one thing. Also, this law objectively harmonizes labour law at BiH level, strengthens the single economic space, and I don't think it could be a single economic space without this law, while, just last time we adopted one of the previous sessions of a legislative project defined by the Agency for Labour and Employment at BiH level. We have the Agency and we don't have the law, etc. which means that the law can certainly withstand criticism or a test of constitutional law or the need to bring it to the level of the BiH state. If the law that is before you promotes, protects, simply takes a step further towards protecting the rights of workers in BiH, then there is objectively no more entity policies, nor policies from any political party or party, but simply has the well-being of the ordinary man in BiH and I think it is a large newspaper in this law, especially a member of the 72nd that protects workers especially when they lose their jobs, who are on hold, who are simply positively existentially threatened and who are threatened with the elemental human right, the right to work. The Commission for Human Rights also sent this law to the Council of Ministers, it sent this law to the Council of Ministers, and there is no dilemma there, that, simply the law should be passed and that it should get an opinion, how not, and that is no problem for the Council of Ministers, and if Parliament agrees, I have no objection to waiting for the Council of Ministers' opinion and to enable, an additional part of the public hearing, and that you know well, I am 55 you from the aspect of the union in BiH, and I have exhausted all the opportunities to animated the trade unions and to give their opinion, which means that they are partly exhausted opportunities, but we will try to further establish, above all, conditionally, as the "work base" is said, namely, the union in both entities and trade unions at the level of BiH, which means that we have a number of amendments to this legislative project, and in this context, will certainly come from the amendment. I thank all who have helped to do this law and that it is not, simply, the law of one MP, but a legal project proposed by more scientists, expert groups that have been working on this law, with respect for all the objections that you are, for sure that the law with additional, simple amendments will be a good legal project, which will also be able to serve entity laws, which are not at risk with this law and which, simply, should be harmonised with the law that is passed at BiH level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8079	I thank Mr. Avdić. Rijeka has Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, let Miloš Jovanović prepare, then Mrs Sead Palavrić, and then Mr Jozo Križanović. I would only ask you to stick to the time for discussion, the topic is important, but here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8080	I thank the esteemed presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, when it comes to this area that regulates labour problems, I have listened with attention, any doubts about the constitutional basis of the regulation of this matter on the state level of BiH, and in this sense I would more in f... sense and also in the way of thinking, expecting the College to meet the proposal given by counterpart Špirić. I would give, perhaps, a few instructions, for which and how there is a constitutional basis in the BiH Constitution. Provisions relating to market economy regulation, i.e. to transition as a market economy. I want to remind all those who are not economists that the market economy implies regulation in the areas of the goods and services market, regulation in the capital market and in one and the other areas of the state, that is, the BiH institution has moved away from creating one environment for the market way, regulation and what we haven't done at the state level, that is the labour market, that is, the problem which is normally regulated by 3-4 laws in the legislative sense. The labour law, the law on intermediation, employment, the law on strike and employment of foreigners, i.e. foreign employment. I don't think it's necessary to talk about the need to pass such legal acts, because we have witnessed, just recently, a sharp problem, to say, about the datamen and the possibility of losing the positions of Bosnian Herzegovina firms working abroad or, for example, the aspect of a single economic space, i.e. a single regulation. That international and legal aspect of communication with the International Labour Organisation, respect for international conventions, and, finally, allow, here, with full authority on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, I suggest that, if there are open issues, or possibly, doubts about constitutional or 56 of any basis following the full argument that could be heard today, we propose that this bill be referred to, or this draft law to the Council of Ministers, but to limit the deadline, that the Council of Ministers should be sent to us within, e.g. reacts within a month with its position, relating to this first, first legal act, which regulates the area of the segment of the labour market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8081	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Business intervention Mr. Novaković. Let Mr. Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8082	My fellow Members, as far as I understand the legislator of this law, he is agreed to, in practice, suspend the debate on this law and refer the law to the Council of Ministers. If we continue the debate and vote in the first reading, then we disable the amendment phase, which, once again, the legislator was ready when he said himself, he doesn't mind even going to union level. So, my intervention is, with the apology of colleagues who have answered the word that, if the Proposer considers that the law should not continue to vote on it, then I think we should interrupt this law and return it to the Council of Ministers and allow the amendment phase before the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8083	I thank you, regardless of this intervention, I will, however, continue the debate with the reported debates, although this can also be discussed and this is a question which can find its place in the Rules of Procedure, but allow me, it is an important topic and what is heard is more opinions, which is better, I hope that we will get to a solution sooner, so here, I am motivated. Mr. Jovanović has a word. Have Mrs. Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8084	If I have the right on behalf of the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum, I do not see Mr Jahić, President of the Commission, but precisely, we are not returning what was said earlier, so the Commission has proposed. So there was the Commission's position, except for one MP, except for Mr Gligorić, who was against the only one, and now he's coming out here for the pay phone, and then he's giving us lectures, how we're supposed to act, how good it is, well, I don't see who he's giving it to right now. I see the cameras are off. I don't see a lot of these friends of ours from international organizations. They would probably pass on to Mr Gligorić, if he were good, if he were cooperative and, I repeat, the Commission was unanimously, or the only one against Mr Gligorić suggested going to the Council of Ministers that they give their opinion that they would then go to the assembly. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8085	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Gligorić, of course, is reporting for replication. I give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8086	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in today's communications I'm not the problem so that the letter and the watchman's fault for everything that happened today is Tihomir Gligorić, but let me say. Look, something I wanted to say. We are talking today about the employment law, etc., tomorrow we will talk about the law on education, we need to meet the priority in order to join the Council of Europe, on the protection of cultural monuments, etc. It's not all in those ten taxis listed under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8087	Mr. Jovanović, I'd like to ask you to allow us to speak for the pay phone. Go on, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8088	Thank you. This means that we will be in a situation where we are now invoking ourselves and they are right when they say Parliament is passing laws, but when we say and call only on human rights, i.e. a broad term, but only explicitly to appeal to human rights in relation to a specific area such as traffic, education, it's not people in the legal sense, but we have a solution and now something else to Mr. Jovanović. The SDS policy is to impose the law on employment, the law on education, the law on cultural heritage, to do so by Pedi Eždaun, the High Representative and his office, then we respect and implement it. Why are we hypocritical people? Why do we need Pedi Eždaun to pass some laws? I have nothing to court neither the High Representative nor any of you here, I want to be a normal person and to realize that entities to stop the work are given certain powers and when it is necessary to become BiH as an internationally recognised state, functional and needed part of jurisdiction, it needs to be given some jurisdiction, then give it to the SDS gentleman, but when we enter the European Union and meet the standards and pass on jurisdiction, then we will get the situation so that we can decentralised BiH and it will not be centralised and it will not be unitary, it should be a new Serbian policy, but you in the SDS can't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8089	Now we've got two. Do you want both or one? Mr. Novaković, may I have your attention, please? Let's bring this in. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8090	Let me first say that it's incorrect to insinuate that this has something to do with today, with what used to happen. So I also came out to say that I highly appreciate Mr Gligorić's principled views and that his contribution to Serbian politics, given this statement now, is very important that we centralise BiH so that we can decentralised it. I think this will be another book by Mr Gligorić, which the MPs, of course, will be able to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8091	Mr. Jovanović for a while so we can go with Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8092	You see, gentlemen, SDS policy has no right to speak, Mr Gligorić. So, I as an MP of the SDS have suggested what ten people have said here today and, probably, it will be adopted, and the only, I repeat, he was the only one against it. I repeat, so I'm telling the truth what it is. There's a colleague here from the commission, so let them say.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8093	Thank you. Mrs. Palavrić has a word. Let's move on with the debate. Let's go. The labour law is at stake. Please, let's focus the debate on the subject. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8094	Let me note that, after last joint plenary session, when we all said full mouths that we wanted to European integration that today, indeed, I am very, very, very disappointed. I am disappointed by the fact that all RS parties represent the same position as soon as one of the laws appears to ensure equal rights for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Same, same. Because we knew this before, and it was confirmed last time at the Plenary session that only Bosnia and Herzegovina can go towards the world and Euro-Atlantic integration, and that its entities are not going to the provinces of Europe but are going to the countries. So much for that. I remain in this law and that it is necessary for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to all equally in the Republic of Serbia and the District of Brcko and the Federation of BiH. That it is therefore necessary and that there is a constitutional legal basis for it. In addition to the basis set by the proposalor, which is unquestioned, I again call on the basis provided for in Article 3.5a, so on the additional competences of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it is possible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to take responsibility for the obligations needed to preserve the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If membership in the international organisation of work and 59 similar to us are not necessary, then for international subjectivity, then I really don't know what it is. In addition, the promoter listed the Madrid Declaration. It's been five years ever since, and that's not done. Therefore, there is no reason to discuss the necessity of this Law, for it is unquestionable. The principles on which it is based are also unquestionable. What can be discussed are individual solutions in individual members and this is possible for gentlemen to resolve amendments. It's not impossible to get out of this situation at all, not out of the situation, this is a normal flow. So let us make amendments to everything that is not well settled in individual members, and the necessity and principles are unquestionable and there is no reason not to vote on first reading. And please do not call on me to do so – the Council of Ministers needs to give its position. The Human Rights Commission, when considering this Law, decided to refer it to the Council of Ministers. I guess she did. How long does it take to wait for the Council of Ministers to give about something. He had a chance, he was invited, and he had to give his position. His attitude is not necessary for us to make known whether this Law is necessary and whether the principles on which it is set are well laid. So I appeal to all of us to really demonstrate our good will to declare this law in our first reading that we are no longer wasting time, and I call upon everyone that we are amendingly acting on individual members and their solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8095	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. polahko, wait a minute, First Deputy Chairman Mr. Špirić. Business intervention. After that, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. He was next reported, also intervention, and after that Mr. Kunić, he applied next, intervention, and then Mr. Jusufovic's intervention. Jusufovic's intervention. It's not a discussion. Because Križanović is waiting. An intervention after Mrs Palavrić's discussion. Don't do that, then Križanović has an advantage ahead of you. We'll untangle that later. Let's see. Go on. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8096	Mr. Chairman of my colleagues and colleagues, I thought we'd have this debate in the tone she was in. We've paid the price for the stalling of individual projects by inserting the story you from the entity, you from Republika Srpska are all the same. We're the other one better, etc. This isn't the law of the day whose debate was moving on that tone. We want to get to a good state law. That's why the suggestion of Professor Kunić, Tiha Gligorić, Professor Azra, was to use all of us right after it was a system-based legal project that the Council of Ministers gave their views. Maybe people say they don't have a chance. Maybe they'll install something that's good. So we want to get to a good law. Please, let us use every debate in this sense to promote 60 efforts to get to the law, and not that you have an agreement in advance. I want to convince you that there is no such agreement. I think Mrs Azra's proposal was what Mr. Avdić said and let us not lose now, I mean in that sense at the time. So in that sense, I wanted to intervene and ask that we do not conduct discussions that were on the line of suspension of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8097	Is there a need for Mr. Novaković? There's a need. Here you go. Short, therefore, business intervention, replica, what is, I don't know you'll say there. Mostly after Mrs. Palavrić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8098	Since I suggested and had this kind of business intervention that was not respected and, therefore, we went into debate, what I'm going out for has nothing to do with this law and I'm accepting Mr. Špirić's intervention again, because it's exactly the same as I said here, but I came out because of the incorrect assumption here. First, let me ask you not to attribute to the SDS what they didn't say. It's enough what we say, I suppose, and Mr Jovanović has made it quite clear what his position was on the commission and I don't think there's really any reason to attribute the SDS here now that it's against everything that's for the good of all citizens. Please, it's a structure that probably wouldn't hold up any rehearsals. Also, I want to ask my colleagues here to apply the constitutional structure of BiH and RS is not a province. I hope it won't either, and we will, at least as far as the SDS are concerned, try not to make RS a province in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8099	Mr. Kunić Petar. Short intervention, so, a minute. Well, the interventions are, it's not a discussion, one minute at a time is enough. We've been in touch a few times.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8100	The intervention at Mrs. Palavrić's discussion. Indeed, last time, we unanimously pleaded for European integration, and no one here is questioning European integration. I must remind you that I objected to your performance on the amendments to the Constitution and last plenary session, and I will always do so. Duralex-seblex law is tough but it's the law. Please, we have to stick to the Constitution. Niko one contests, no one contests that there is no practical need to regulate work relations, for foreign citizens, the BiH institutions, that no one contests having a matter of reference to work abroad, therefore, that it is treated by BiH institutions. Niko one argues when it comes to accepting international standards, to refer to those standards, or to calling 61 to conventions which make this law, the working text of the law, or the draft in which it is seen and done, but contests certain things that are unacceptable. Imagine, please, that we accept the fact that all trade unions, associations, various associations in BiH sign a contract with the Council of Ministers. Please, what would people tell us, and now we have that kind of vision in that law. So there's no need to repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8101	All right, Mr. Kunić, turn off your cell phone first of all.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8102	When we have these provisions in entity laws, and I don't know why there's such a tendency in that direction. Why emotions are so focused in that direction, when the Constitution is clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8103	Please, Mr. Jozo Križanović. Mr. Kunić, turn off your phone. Let Mr. Munib Jusufović take his place.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will indeed try to be brief. I, after what we've heard so far, couldn't say anything special, except to publicly state that I belong to those who consider the adoption of this law to be very important and important for a number of reasons. First of all, some people here have already listed it, and I'm just gonna tax them out. It is the integration of BiH's economic space, the creation of...the conditions for labour mobility, the creation of the labour market, and what is particularly important to me, is the introduction of a final order into a desperate state of employees in BiH. It is for me a parek-selans law to follow, to paint, to say a democratic society, to talk about us dealing with the work and relations that rule in the field of work. So, if I understand correctly, most colleagues are in favour of the need to pass laws at BiH level, because it also allows us one to tell the world's correspondence. In order not to spoil the atmosphere so far and so far that we have determined ourselves for this approach, it might be good to go with the conclusion, therefore, respecting our mood to appreciate the need to pass this law to make a commitment to the Council of Ministers by when it should appear with a clear view to this draft in front of this house, let's say that it is perhaps a month at the latest, that we do not lose our pace and that we do not miss the opportunity to pass a very important law for BiH. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8105	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Jusufović, then exhausted, I will take the word for it briefly and, of course, the promoter reserves the right to address it once more. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8106	Mr. Chairman, I'm really going to be brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8107	Here you go, Munibe.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8108	... today that we shouldn't have opened up a debate on these issues for a number of reasons. First, Mr Špirić's proposal as a new, fresh force in this college where it felt immediately today to go in a constructive direction, which means that this proposal is identical with the Commission's proposal for human rights, in order to explain later, Ms Azra even gave a concrete deadline to the Council of Ministers. Would the promoter take that as an explanation? But there's something else I want to say. Today, at least that's how I didn't realize by any of my colleagues from the RS that he said he was against the law. For these reasons, I want to join my colleagues from, my colleagues, yes, because I haven't heard a single tone that won't pass the law, so today we have a consensus on the fact that we're in favour of the law because it's quite adopted, but that this law that is significant is systemic, however, that it's not realistically mature for adoption. It is better that the law does not fall, and therefore Mr Avdić should have made it clear, although he suggested it to pass this particular procedure, simply to be done, with regard to its importance and then to go on its own path, because otherwise it should be realistic not for, there are no assumptions for adoption, which means that the law is falling. And I suggest to the Proposer if it isn't clear yet that we once again say that the law would remain in circulation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8109	I thank Mr. Jusufović. In this way, a list of those who have applied for the discussion is exhausted, only if Mr. Špirić wants to thank Mr. Jusufović for these praises, can we give Mr. Špirić the word, and only to remind Mr. Jusufović that this is the 12th session led by the chairman of the dom, of course with the help of all of you. I understand you completely. So, if you'd like to thank me, sir, I'll give you my word. No problem. Okay. I completely understand you, Mr. Jusufović. This was a bit of a joke, because Mr. Jusufović was joking too, so I figured it out, so I fought back this way. Mr. Avdić wants to say something as a proposal, and then I'll say something, too. We've closed the debate. Sead Avdić is still speaking, and I will suggest a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8110	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you fellow MPs for simply drawing up and improving in such a constructive, contentious debate, 63 conditionalally giving indications of an improvement in the text of the law. However, this is today, however, the first reading and in this sense, if the objectives of this law are not questionable, its constitutional and legal basis and, simply, the opinion of the Human Rights Commission, it is objectively prepared from the aspect of voting on the trust of this law in the context of first reading. That would be possible, the best way out of this situation, and the Council of Ministers would call for a second reading to give its opinion, amendments, possibly and, in that context, simply buy time. We have last time, I remind you and I encourage you on this path, and that means that we have agreed, and above all, the College, the entire Parliament, to dynamic the work of this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to dynamic and to simply adopt what is not prepared from the aspect of the European regulatory, regulation of the European Community and the White Paper, etc. However, I am not against the BiH Party's proposal either. So, the Human Rights Commission sent this to the Council of Ministers. Let's give him this for another month, simply, conditioned time limit to deliver his opinion, his amendments to this law. But, again, I simply repeat once again that first reading is just principles, constitutional and legal basis and principles and objectives that are not controversial from the aspect of the labour and employment law at BiH level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8111	I thank Mr. Sead Avdić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I shall say in short lines what I think about the text of this law and say what kind of business we are in right now. I am glad that there were no MPs today who disputed the need for the BiH state to have such a law. I understand that, because all you need to do is look at the scope of this law, in fact, read its Article 1 and find out immediately from it that it's logical to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8112	Is this the discussion of the chairman? If the discussion is to come out, it's so business.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8113	Mr. Špirić, you were gone, you were the first vice president, I would ask you to give me your word. This remark is in place. I respect that. The Rules of Procedure are, that's why Mr. Špirić is right. I've practiced it before. Therefore, only Article 1 must be read. I will continue, however, to discuss Mr. Špirić, if you don't mind, from which you can clearly see what his goal is. Therefore, it is perfectly normal and logical and understandable to me that there were no MPs in this paragraph who would oppose the need to pass this law. I want to say here what the point of my discussion is, and then I'm going back to the pay phone to suggest a conclusion as the chairman of the House. Niko of you referred to the Law on 64 ministries and other bodies of the BiH state administration. In the Law on Ministrys, in the Council of Ministers Act, later in the Law on Ministrys, therefore, in addition to the Constitution of BiH, which speaks of constitutional basis, there is an entire area called the area of work and employment and which is in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions and it is perfectly normal that we, and I expect here in the State Parliament, will pass laws on all those areas that are placed in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions. I, the right to tell you, expect a recent period of time and a bill on health care and a law on the foundation of pension insurance, of course, and a law on labour and employment, a law on ecology and a series of other laws governing the areas given to BiH institutions. And, therefore, I think that finally this proposal by Mr. Avdić, whose efforts and efforts, as well as, of course, the unions in the making of this law, I particularly appreciate Mr. Avdić's important proposal that the Council of Ministers, who will have direct authority in this area, is being shown about the very text of the law and that their proposals and suggestions. This way my discussion is over and based on what I've heard so far, it would be good if the law could be passed today in the first reading. It is obvious, therefore, from what I have seen, from the statement of political party representatives, that today... it was probably Mr Avdić and therefore suggested that the House of this law, therefore, adhere to its principles of delivery to the BiH Council of Ministers, which should be readable within 30 days about the text of this law and its vision of text and delivery to this home, to the commission of this home and then we will continue the procedure. That would be the conclusion that you unanimously suggested by all those who spoke today at the House session. We will return him to parliamentary procedure and make a decision. I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. So I was just reinterpreting Mr. Avdić's conclusion and others. If no one answers their word, we move to a plea. Who's in favor of this law? Thank you very much. Is there anyone against this conclusion? Are there any abstentions? So I find that we have adopted a conclusion unanimously with 35 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions. Here's your law. Moving to the next item of the agenda is the 16th point. Ad.16. Report by the Office for the Auditing of Financial Business of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions on the review of financial operations carried out for 2001 Dama and gentlemen Members, we received a timely review report. He has passed the commission phase, in a way that is common here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I must say immediately that these reports are given special attention and that a more stringent and more comprehensive procedure is applied to them. After a seminar that we as MPs had about this topic, and I think 65 that our financial committee and the budget have practiced this procedure in the course of reporting on these reports to our home. I would now call for a pay phone if it considers it necessary to address the Parliament of the Auditor-General. He doesn't think I should. We have a report, is that right, but then I would like to call for the speaker of the Finance Commission and the budget that submitted these reports to us by Mr Nikol Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8114	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that the Commission for Finance and Budgetary Reports of the BiH institutions has devoted five regular sessions, that we have had serious and good work and that the product of our work is the report that we submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We regret that the elections and all that followed the constitution of this parliament, perhaps from a time point of view of this problem, have made many things an adaptable, because we have worked, we have considered the report of the institutions for 2001, but here we hope that, with great engagement and advocacy of the Office for Auditing BiH institutions, we will get a report for 2002, which we will also pay great attention to. I would like to thank the members of the Finance and Budget Committee who have really put forth a lot of effort and work to get this report in the prescribed form, with the help of various international organisations and the OSCE, and I ask the Representative Council to adopt these reports in the form proposed by the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8115	I thank Mr Špirić, President of the Finance and Budget Commission. I am now opening a debate on all 20 reports, and then we will vote individually for each of these reports. Who wants to talk? Mrs. Ruža Sopta, may Mr. Miloš Jovanović, Hazim Felić, be prepared afterwards, Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8116	My colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen chairman, I couldn't miss the chance to give all the praises to the general auditor and his colleagues and the entire office for such nice and neatly prepared material. Since I've been in this House, I haven't had a more concise, neater complex, so if you want clearer and more transparent material, especially knowing that they work on adequate spaces and that they don't have the full personnel structure that's planned. I would also give all the thanks to the Commission, because in this material too, I say I have not had the opportunity to see that this is how the Commission has devoted five sessions, had additional questions to certain institutions and gave suggestions to this Parliament, which I say in advance should be supported and probably should the conclusions be incorporated. 66 However, as excited as I was with this, I was so shocked with, that of the 20 institutions, as audited by this office, only five got a positive opinion, while the other 15 had a abstention or an opinion with a reserve. This tells the truth about us all, and surely when this announcement is announced, voters will be one of the messages on which we will be called. When we look at, too, the structure of which some opinions are restrained, the structure of errors and the structure of violations of regulations, is also a devastating situation, that no inter... control was established, but let's just sort of do that, because the Office of Auditors has just been established or so, but they are not respected procurement procedures. Surely it will be an additional task for us to pass procurement laws, then not show all income, which is unimaginable to me, not record permanent funds in books, and then normally they won't even be on the list of vehicles, which is the same. I'm just saying more, she took a word for the apparition she's about to come in 2003, because in 2001, she's the truth she is. We're expecting a report for 2002, but I don't want a report like this to appear in 2003 or at any institution, I think it's a big task for us to take action. I think the measures have already been taken, but let's do it as a parliament, if we're looking for a report to see how many of these mistakes were removed in the meantime so that we don't come into the situation to comment on just these situations in 2003 than to remove them in advance and to be more pleased with the 2003 appraisal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8117	Thank you, Mrs. Sopšta. Next is Mr. Jovanović. Have Mr. Felić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that Mr. Auditors had the most objections on the BiH Foreign Ministry's audit, so I don't know if you've had time to look at it, it says a lot of remarks, and if this is all true, maybe we should lock someone up, so it's said among other things. That the collected consular fees in the foreign office are not regularly paid into the budget, and then foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange inflows are not paid to the single account of the vault, taxes and contributions to the salaries of the employees of the offices are not paid to the corresponding accounts. The procurement procedures, too, are not an open tender etc. the travel documents also, so the Ministry's financial documentation is not entirely liquid and credible. All of this gives me enough arguments to believe what the press has been saying and what happened to Mr. Dark Trifunović, the first secretary of the BiH mission to the UN in New York, where he discovered, to say, some illegal actions, and that's why it happened, probably what happened to Mr. Darko Trifunović, so if there is an individual statement, I will be against this report, or against this revision, the audit report of the Foreign Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8119	Thank you. Mr. Hazim Felić. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8120	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, As a member of the Commission, I will say a few words about the Commission's report, and on the basis of the draft report of the BiH Financial Audit Office, where the Commission has been working on the material of the Office for Auditing, as its President, Mr Špirić, said, indeed had five meetings and where we have adopted certain criteria, principles on the preparation and production of the report itself. I'll just Kazaću that what appears in the review office's report, almost or all of them, to say the BiH institution where the review took place about 20, there are three things that are constant in each report. This is not respecting the procedure when purchasing fixed funds, or respecting a member 16. The law on the implementation of the budget, then the internal control system, anywhere or almost anywhere, has not been established or is not applied and the third thing that is, too, important which is, arises certain misunderstandings among certain state institutions, is a lack of accounting standards, which are partly causing some problems in some of the state notifications. What may be important or particularly necessary to point out is that some state institutions have taken the findings of the Audit Office seriously, acted responsibly, cooperated with the auditor and provided answers and clarifications to certain issues. However, there were also those who did not find it appropriate to discuss and communicate with the Audit Office, in order to clarify certain ambiguities through the report itself. I think those who have not been willing to cooperate with the Office of Audit, in order to remove the identified errors or failures in work and functioning, should indeed bear certain responsibilities. Those who have shown their good will to correct the mistakes that have occurred or the mode of work that has been present in these institutions for a certain commendation and fellow Sopta stressed that the report has shown that they are favourable or that they are better than those who have been assessed in the findings of the Audit Office. So much for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8121	Thank you. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8122	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will also address you as a member of the Commission, who was lucky or unhappy to work, reviewing the 2001 audit reports. We started working in early 2003, and it tells us the same thing about ourselves. So what we've been doing is we've done it in a short time and quite efficiently. We haven't changed anything here, we've cut hair, we've even tried since there's been a larger time gap and we've been communicating with all of these institutions, to see if people have done anything about the auditor's findings, to have any up-to-date information. Where we were able to make contact we realized what we could find out, we found out what we weren't the best 68 Mrs. Leho knows what was going on with our people from the Commission, who tried to have that real information firsthand. So what we have in front of us is 2001. I ask you, therefore, that we cannot change retroactively anything now to accept this fact state that we have established, and that we all make a joint effort not to repeat it in 2001, that in 2002 or the third year that the Commission is working in two years, so let's try to make our audit, the Office of Audit to carry out the time control of these institutions for the past year so that we as a commission get the materials in time and that we can do so in accordance with the regulations to do so, and so I am using this opportunity to suggest this home to support the Office for the Auditing of Joint Institutions so that people can fill the personnel. They are not staffed to keep that in mind through the budget and that's the only way we have up-to-date, that we have valuable information and that we complete the audit and that the Commission can do its job. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8123	Thank you. Who's on the phone? Seada or you? Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8124	I have some questions for the auditors. In fact, we recently had the opportunity to see the document of the CRA Regulatory Agency addressed to the Ministry of Finance and to ask how to book donations, so that they are shown in the budget. In a report by the CRA auditor, I can't go anywhere that there have been donations, whether or not donations to the Agency and I'm left with open questions, I understand the findings of the auditors that the CRA has not charged the invoices 1,701,159 KM. What does that really mean? Is there anyone who's been provided with a service for so many funds? If they are already invoiced that services are not provided there could be no invoices. Why hasn't the payment been made? What was the Agency supposed to do to fit these funds into the budget of BiH? Next, I think that the view of the auditor, according to the question, is also recommended to Parliament that in the Law on Budget Execution and Other Regulations, it more clearly determines the status of CRA and other independent institutions, from the point of view of the application of domestic financial and accounting and other regulations. I cannot understand that the rules on the implementation of the budget of domestic institutions do not apply to the CRA, because it is both a domestic institution and a state-run one. So she's not exempt from applying accounting regulations, in my humble opinion. These are the questions for the Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8125	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8126	I hope we don't do inflation by members of the Commission. I'll just say in the part that I think is good for the MPs to know. We have estimated that 69 of the current degree of capacity building and competence of the Audit Office are looking for additional activities to move on from the level we have achieved, because if we don't, we will practically get stereotype reports with completely similar or similar findings related to these remarks that we have here. In order to avoid that, we have proposed to the Commission itself several activities, which we will carry out. The result is that we have launched some initiatives under the programme, which I hope will be quickly adopted in the programme of work of the Representative's House, because we have launched an initiative to also pass this law on procurement, to pass a law on accounting, to regulate and adopt a permanent budget law, etc. So, some of the activities are being undertaken and, of course, we have started, we have revived an earlier initiative of the BiH Presidency, where we are asking that the BiH Assembly, or the Finance and Budget Committee, in accordance with the Law on Audit, establish a body, which, in practice, oversees the quality of work and audit itself. Furthermore, I think it is very important that this is followed by some MPs, Mr Jovanović, Mrs Palavrić, etc. The audit reports are public documents. They're getting published. They are available to prosecutors, financial police, etc. I sincerely hope that these institutions I mention will find themselves and find their responsibility to carefully study the audit reports. The arrangements do not initiate procedures, but they do make public and available institutions, which can do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8127	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Miletić wants to answer the question? Is there a need? Excuse me. Mr. Miletić, the general auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8128	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I would like to answer these three questions asked by the honourable representative. When it comes to donating donations, it is one problem that we face even when we come to that finding, because there are no accounting standards for the public sector yet. There's a world out there, they're just being translated and they're not being published with us yet, so we're making comments, but there's still no exact standards by which these donations are to be recorded, so we leave it to the institutions to them, the most important thing is that they record it in their books. So far, it hasn't happened that anyone has practically recorded donations. We didn't have the right records. We believe in the 2002 report that through these reports we will force these institutions to at least record and write donations. You've seen in the reports that there's a lot of unlisted assets, and therefore a donation, which we've asked in the reports for all donations to go through the Budget, through Budget, so that the Treasury has full insight into the donations that our country receives. As for the unpaid revenues of the Regulatory Agency, it means invoiced and not charged claims, and we will know in the 2002 report exactly whether it was charged this year and if it is not why it is not, so you will soon have that information in Parliament. As for defining a clearer structure, a clearer definition of independent institutions, there is one problem. In addition to the Office for Auditors, independent institutions are both the Constitutional Court and the Regulatory Agency and civil aviation, etc. With this CRA, they only got a fixed amount by budget. They did not have a share in costs such as other users' accounts, fees, contracted services, etc. That is why we have asked that, and that these total funds be cut apart by certain items, at individual costs and that the possibility of independent institutions to receive a sub-account is reviewed, so that they are independent of the Government. This is one of the conditions of independence and it will probably be our requirement in the future for us to be completely independent of the government, i.e. from the vaults and we should also have one sub-account, and supervision would be carried out by Parliament, or the Parliamentary Commission for Finance and Budget. By the time I came out for the pay phone, I would like to thank the Commission for the first time who has done an extremely good procedure for these reports and it is a shame that the reports came this late – 7 months after the delivery to Parliament. We know that there are objective responsibilities, objective circumstances due to the elections, but I expect that the next report we are planning will be submitted to Parliament at the beginning of the ninth month, that within three months, this procedure that we have agreed on and that, by the end of the year, they will be held at the planned session and that they will be discussed in more detail and that Parliament will continue to follow the conclusions on these reports. I would like to propose here and help the chairman, when it comes to voting on the report, to vote on the Commission's reports. As for the report of the Audit Office, they are not voted on, they are taken to the knowledge and I expect that, when it comes to the law on procurement, this should speed up the procedure for the adoption of the law. You have seen that almost in most places, almost all institutions have failed to comply with the procedure, and according to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which is worth that year, for all purchases of 10,000 marks, it is intended to be a criminal offence. I think it was too harsh, but it was worth it for that year, and it's a serious situation that Parliament needs to have fun about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8129	I thank Mr. Miletić. Who else wants to talk? May I have Mr. First Deputy Chairman's word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8130	Rijeka has the chairman, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8131	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I remember well and there are other MPs here from the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the last term, when it was discussed on this subject and on these audit reports for the year 2000, and then I, as an MP, had 71 opportunities to hear various qualifications, various claims, checked or not checked. I will refrain this time from any comments related to recorded irregularities in the reports and I will not comment on them because I am not qualified to do so. But I'm going to suggest one thing, which should make up for this, this one of mine, therefore, inability, and all of you here in Parliament. I think that we should introduce this practice everywhere where in the report of the Auditor-General there are also the following observations, where there is no satisfactory report that these reports, together with the opinion of our committees, are delivered to the D.A. to assess whether the elements of a criminal offence, a commercial offence, or a violation are obtained in those failures or actions. So, with all of these, I suggest that it be a practice to, with these reports everywhere, every report where there is an irregularity, illegality, we have a state prosecutor, let him make an assessment, and let it further distribute this to BiH really competent or place competent, if it is not for 2001 prosecutors, let all those who today have the budget, know that the following year when a report by the auditor-general is discussed, this conclusion will be identical, because the purpose of the review is that in the institutions controlled by the audits, I am, therefore, and I have come to the speaker to propose as one of the possible conclusions and this conclusion. I conclude the debate and suggest, on the basis of your debate and suggestions from the auditor general about our obligations against his reports, the following conclusion. I suggest we vote in a package for all these reports so we don't vote 20 times. First, let's take a look at all 20 reports. That is, therefore, the first conclusion. The second conclusion is that we accept the opinion of our commission. The third conclusion, to assign the Council of Ministers to the promiscuously, as soon as possible, the law on procurement in BiH institutions and to deliver it to Parliament in parliamentary procedure. Fourthly, that all those reports by the auditor-general and other regulations necessary for the orderly material and financial operations, and the fourth conclusion that all reports in which the auditor-general has found certain irregularities, illegality, will be delivered by the sekretarijat, or the Secretary of the House, shall be submitted to the State Prosecutor for assessment of whether there are elements of a criminal offence, commercial offence or offence or not. That's the proposal for these four conclusions, for all 20 of these reports. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that what Parliament can do today is to accept the Commission's report on finance and budget, because there are suggestions, recommendations for the next period. I think we did it really seriously and seriously. I'm not because this parliament gives orders to a public prosecutor. Public reports are public documents, published in official newspapers, and I think that every competent state 72 institutions out of it are making their moves whether they are busy or not. I'm not so that this is some trendy parliament, which we're going to tell the public prosecutor, here's why we did the selection, and we think that's why you're busy. I don't think that's realising the integrity of a... public prosecutor. Parliament can discuss whether the prosecution is doing well at the state level to suggest, but I think we are not a law of prosecution and it would be good if the lovely MPs were kept focused on what is a state MP. So, I'd avoid for the sake of dignity and this home, I'd avoid, of course, if I decided to decide on a fourth conclusion, and for all of this, I agree, of course, to report to the committee where the recommendations are, and I think that's it, so that we can absorb the debate after the reports we've received. Thank you. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8133	Mr Špirić, I have made it clear that I had no intention at all to be any kind of investigator and if you followed my debate, I have abstained from any comments related to the content of the report, setting myself up, and if that, I may not be professional, but given the position I have held in the group of MPs who do not understand what the reports say. So I cannot accept your claim that this fourth conclusion would be on the trail of Parliament turning into an investigative body, precisely for those reasons I was just talking about. We will, of course, publish these reports in BiH's Official Messenger and they will be available to all authorities, which should take over if they think they should take action under their jurisdiction. However, this is one quality in the work of this Parliament and it is quite another quality when Parliament, having seen certain illegalities on the basis of the auditor's report, provides those reports to the State Prosecutor and allowing him to have it completely autonomously, in accordance with the rules of his profession, assess whether in the actions listed in the report by the Auditor-General there are or no elements of a criminal offence, commercial offence or offence. I do not know why it is considered that in this situation Parliament would become an investigator. Parliament, therefore, only delivers this to the prosecutor and let him carry out the assessment. That's it. But in any case, I'll put the conclusions one by one on the plea. Yes, sir. Here you go, Mr. Belkić. A discussion of the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8134	When it comes to this fourth proposed conclusion that we would not now be in one situation, they are one to deliver reports or not. I am, absolutely, so that everyone is prosecuted. So it would be good to hear the chief auditor about these procedures and ways of communicating with the prosecutions and others from their point of view. These published documents were made available to the public, etc. We can only ask the chief auditor, so what are you doing with what's going on? Does anyone have any coincidences for these irregularities? They're independent, great. But there's a provision in the audit law, only we missed it to establish quality control, etc. I don't mind, it's absolutely up to 73 BiH parties both to prosecutors and financial police, etc. Oh, is that our job? We will support it, not a problem, but let us and the Office explain how it communicates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8135	Thank you. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8136	Thank you. Chairman, I'm going to suggest something that I think would be operational.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8137	On the grounds of their conclusions, they have four conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8138	In the light of your conclusions. I, the chairman, belong to those who understand each other a little better in the revision. I will propose that, on the basis of the review report and the Commission's findings, we adopt the Commission's report. We are adopting a report by our commission, with one note that it would be good for the same people, perhaps the Commission, to receive a review report in 2002, pay attention and it is a little comparative, whether the shortcomings in some state institutions, which were recorded by the 2001 audit, which is more than in 2001, I will remind you of the year in which the previous set was in the state institutions and then newly selected furniture, so there were few of those cuts in some ministries, the first three months, or the first five months, which, of course, is not seen and should not be seen from the findings of the Office of Auditing, but I would also suggest that what my fellow Belkić from the discussion was a few fellow MPs' notices conclusion on the next item of the agenda, when we talk about the business report of the Audit Office. All right, you need to help be an audit office, of course, along with everything you need to contain and to preserve your independence, but also to be able to function in an adequate manner, together with communication with other institutions at the level of the BiH state. I therefore propose to the chairman that perhaps part of your conclusion that you have felt well as a need leave as a conclusion for the report on the business of the Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8139	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8140	Members of Parliament, I, in the last term, was, therefore, at the House of Peoples in the Commission for Financial Administration Affairs and one of our conclusions at the time of the Commission, which worked on an opportunity to co-operate with the Norwegian Parliament, has always been according to these 74 audit reports to the competent authorities to take certain measures, so, according to what was stated in the report there as a lack. This commission has not introduced this, obviously that they have done something different and that they do not feel that there is a need to indicate whether they consider it, whether they do not feel that there is a need for Parliament to strengthen this request for the competent authorities to do something, it is a matter of the Commission and I do not want to enter into the way, that is, the way the Commission works. I came out here first to say that we will support these conclusions that the chairman suggested here, including this fourth conclusion, because we have no reason to protect the previous council of ministers for all the irregularities he has made. Some of you have to do it. It is obvious that this was the case in the Commission, as we will not protect this council of ministers, if he does as he did before and if he does these irregularities that he did before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8141	Thank you. Mr. Miletić. Or someone from the Office of the Auditor General, whom they determine or as they agree. I see the deputy called. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8142	I will be very brief on the matter of Mr. Belkić's distinguished representative. As for the process of handling the reports. Our law is clear here. We report to the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly. By law, we have no other obligation to inform competent authorities and institutions. So it is up to Parliament to draw conclusions about this. As far as the standard goes, there's one clause, it's an assessment of the general auditor and his decision whether he'll direct the prosecution. So it's not legal, it's not binding. Therefore, the clearest thing to do is to make it clear to Parliament, because this is where elected representatives of the people are sitting. They chose the government and the government corresponds to Parliament. I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8143	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Can we then put all four of these conclusions that I have suggested for a statement, including this fourth conclusion that these reports will take place. I repeat my conclusions. 1. The report is received, or the auditor’s report, 2. A report by our committee is being adopted on the auditor's report, 3. The Council of Ministers undertakes to implement the draft law on procurement in BiH institutions as soon as possible, and 4. That we, these auditor reports, where irregularities have been observed, are delivered to the D.A. for assessment, whether there are, and other necessary regulations, so under the third law on procurement and other... 75 It is delivered to the D.A. for assessment, therefore, all those reports where there are irregularities, on the assessment of whether there are elements of a criminal offence, economic crime or offence. Who's in charge of these conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8144	I only have one remark. I'm sorry, I only answered the word for one material execution. I will support, therefore, as far as I'm concerned, I think I belong to the order of those people who are fighting for legality and the fight against everything they do... but I want one thing here. Who in the name of Parliament will make the selection?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8145	Mr. Špirić, you're right, I agree, all the reports to the prosecutor everything. Who's in, with this suggestion from Mr. Špirić? Who's in? All reports, all 20. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 32 MPs are in the O.R., 32 voted for these four conclusions. This is how we closed the point on the 16th agenda. We're going to the 17th agenda. Ad.17. Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank's 2002 Financial Report Dama and gentlemen MPs, you received a financial report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2002. There are also representatives of the Central Bank, who spoke to us earlier today. You also have the position of the committee responsible, the Finance Commission and the budget. I'm opening the debate. Does anyone want to talk? I propose, for the debate, the conclusion that Parliament adopts a report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2002, with a report from the Commission, of course. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Present 33 - vote for 33. He didn't mind, there weren't any abstentions. So a financial report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2002 was adopted unanimously. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda. 76 Ad.18. A report on the business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Financial Audit Office for 2002, Dama and gentlemen of Parliament, a report on the business of the BiH Financial Audit Office, was adopted on 31 March 2003. You got the report. There's also the position of the committee in charge. This is the representative of the Audit Office. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Ćeman answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8146	I actually have one question for Mr. Miletić as a generic auditor. Here, we were just discussing, to the soul I had to go out for some other needs and debate and participate in the vote on these other audits. The audit office is also one of the budget users. I'm interested in who, therefore, is auditing the Office of Audition as a budgetary user? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8147	I thank Mr. Ćeman. It will, in turn, be the Parliamentary Assembly, but, behold, I will make it possible for them. Whom do you command, Mr. Belkić and the other MPs? Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8148	Here, if we have started with questions, I will also ask the question of the Audit Office, but more of the content of nature and more in order to remove possible ambiguities and potential problems in the work of the Office of Audit in certain state institutions. Are all donations, i.e. support, especially international, to BiH institutions, e.g. The Constitutional Court of Human Rights, the Agency, or the Demining Commission, etc. an integral part of the budget of the BiH institution, i.e. the competent institutions, which are receiving a donation, i.e. whether the Audit Office is facing some problems in the transparency of the financial operations of certain institutions, and how can this Parliament help the Audit Office? That's one thing. Secondly, I am speaking here with a full moral right for this speaker, because among these institutions, which were here, there is one on which I was headed, which has also received a positive assessment, but the experience I had in working with the audit, I want to point out, perhaps as well as an incentive or an example of how state institutions can improve their financial operations. The findings of the audit I encountered at the beginning of the mandate at the Ministry of Foreign Trade were a signal with several, engagements in several areas, the adoption of appropriate internal acts at the ministry to warn, possible failures in fines. the business and any subsequent findings of the audit were directed, i.e. the incentive, to say the direction for the operations of the ministry, i.e. by the competent sectors within the ministry itself, and here I want to highlight first, in particular, the 77 engagement of the Office for Audit and Encouraging which the Office for Audit may, perhaps even with some obligation or conclusion of this Parliament, be strengthened that the competent institutions of the State, based on the findings of the Audit Office, should react immediately, no, therefore, to the annual report and parliamentary debate on the findings of the Office for Audit, but permanently, therefore, with each audit and pre-audit, etc. Any irregularities or deafening from the instructions of the Audit Office should be signalled to the committee responsible and headed towards that solution, i.e. the proposal, proposed by counterpart Džaferović earlier in the debate. The next question was, who audits the Audit Office. Maybe it'd be a good question. Who, at all, cares about the Audit Office, because when someone is eligible for an independent position of the Audit Office, then that independence, or their position, as established and the Law, is used as an excuse not to go out in some way, providing minimum conditions for the independent work of an independent audit office, and in that sense, I would suggest that the Office for Auditing, or Parliament, or the competent commission of a single draft, perhaps a summary of its work, difficulties facing and a proposal for a solution, possible solutions so that this Parliament may take appropriate views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8149	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Who else wants to talk? Does anyone at the Audit Office want to take your word for it? I apologize to the second vice-president, Mr. Raguž. He asked for a word and he has a word. Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8150	I thank the chairman, gospođa Hadžiahmetović has already said the things I was going to say, so I will just say, I think that the independence of the Office and the access of the Office deserves attention and a positive comment to us in this home, as well as this segment, where, apparently, this office has managed to secure with all relevant international reference institutions cooperation, and I would say support to the project. So, here, we were present as the College of Parliament, when long-term co-operation was signed with the Swedish State Audit Office and it should be supported and so should be continued. What I have as a question concerns page 4 where it is said that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a review of six separate financial segments has been carried out, so it is headquarters in Sarajevo, embassies in Aman, Kamberi, Budapest, Octavia and Rome. Is this some agreed reference sample, is that, what are the criteria and what is the assessment of the business of others within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8151	I thank Mr. Raguž. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Miletić. Here you go, Mr. Miletić, the general auditor. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8152	There were a few questions here. I believe I understood most of it. As for the audit, the Audit Office, it's an independent institution, and we belong to the vault. It is certainly unique in Europe, that the Audit Office is seeking, as I said in my presentation for the smallest detail, to apply to the government, or to the ministry of the vault, and we believe that this is the most professional. In the Lim Declaration, as the most important document, which regulates public audit operations. I will soon deliver to Parliament the Lim Declaration. I do not know exactly how to adopt international declarations, but it will go through the commission to adopt that declaration, it is one of the conditions that will be safe for our accession process to Europe, for the Office to be completely independent. We are independent in a functional sense. So we make our own programs and plans. No one interferes with us about the organization and our independence, we remain under the State Service Act, we feel we shouldn't, except for this CRA, the Constitutional Court is excluded, the Central Bank is excluded, etc. However, the Audit Office should be excluded. None of these institutions should, nor may be more independent than the Audit Office, but when it is on the agenda, we will answer. So we fall under the vault and all our demands go to the vault for approval. As far as donations are concerned, this is a similar question, just like last time. We have already required our reports for 2000 that all donations go through the budget and you may have already seen in the 2001 report that this was partially achieved. We expect in the 2002 reports that it should be, practically completely. If that is not the case, I would ask Parliament to take firmer views there. So in order for the state to have information on how many donations to be made, everything has to go through the vault and be recorded in the vault. This does not affect the independence of institutions. As far as foreign affairs issues are concerned. We've done six, a total of six parts of the foreign affairs institution, so seats and other DKPs, so we've done DKPs, which deliver the documentation to the ministry's headquarters, and of what they're delivering the documentation we've been doing at risk analysis, so where the DKP's most spent funds are audited. Due to lack of funds, we did not go to the DKP audit, which do not provide financial documentation to the foreign ministry. We have already asked all DKPs to submit financial documentation to the ministry's headquarters in 2001. However, it is still not being delivered and we were unable to do so. We plan to carry out the fall, at least this close to the DKP, to carry out their audit, but we will also ask you to grant us additional funds, so that our auditors can go and audit. We know that there would be a lot of that, because no one has been auditing and certainly it is a high risk, when it comes to the legitimate business of those DKPs, because they collect revenues. It's not just expenditure to look at, it's revenue. So that would be interesting for Parliament as well, and I ask for support in this respect as well. I think I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8153	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. I, therefore, am concluding the debate, because no one has applied for the discussion anymore and I suggest two conclusions. 79 The first conclusion, of course, is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopts a report on the business of the BiH institutions' Financial Solitude Audit Office for 2002. Secondly, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office to submit a proposal for measures to this House within 30 days, which must be taken to improve, or to improve the work of the Audit Office. That could be two conclusions, which would actually cover all the discussions. The Parliamentary Assembly is an institution that must take care of the Audit Office. He is an independent, independent institution and, if there is one authority in this country, which can have some authority, it is only the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate on the proposal of these two conclusions. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in charge of these conclusions? Is there anyone against these conclusions? Abstained? I find that 32 MPs are present in the hall and that all 32 MPs voted for this two-point conclusion, or for these two conclusions that I presented. We're going to the 19th agenda. Ad.19. Verification of the conclusion by 1. The plenary sessions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina held on 10 April 2003 You ladies and gentlemen have received the text of these conclusions. It is the conclusions presented by the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy of our home, Mr Raguž, at the plenary session. They stemmed from a debate on the achieved level of meeting the conditions in the BiH accession process to the European Union. Some MPs asked him to come in writing and to verify it. That's respected, and I think that's what Mr. Raguž was talking about at the pay phone, and here I am opening a debate on this subject. Mr. Novaković, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović after Mr. Novaković. Mr. Novaković Azra is already on his way. I've called the man and he's already on his way. Great, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8154	I would, of course, support these conclusions and suggest we adopt them. These are the conclusions adopted by the competent committees of both Parliament's homes, based on the debate, which was led. They're at the House of Representatives for the first time today. I think they'll be at the House of Peoples tomorrow. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8155	They were adopted at the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8156	I'm not sure. I think they're on the competent body, and the House of Peoples will. What I would like to mention in particular with the formulations of what are in the conclusion of the 3rd and the conclusion of the 5th is that structural reforms should reflect BiH's internal character as complex etc. The state and that entities are expected to, therefore, reform that should reflect our internal character of BiH and that entities are expected to see what is missing from these conclusions, and I would especially like to emphasise this because of future engagement, it is a matter of responsibility. What if someone, precisely because of BiH's internal character, misses in time or fails to fulfil at all a commitment that is one of the fundamental obligations of europeanisation of BiH, to mark this concept and what the entity formulation means is expected, or what it means if an entity, for example. here does not specify, possibly does not fulfil its obligation and in this sense I would suggest that one conclusion be added to these conclusions which would formulate, or in particular apostrophe of the issues of responsibility for not being done in time or not done at all. Otherwise, I think we're all going to be equally responsible for the potential consequences of not being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8157	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8158	My fellow MPs, I'll say a few words, and maybe it'd be better if I made a suggestion at first and then I could talk. In fact, my proposal would consist of forming an external affairs commission from each club to add one more member to the proposal for a conclusion that is acceptable to all. Since such a proposal for a conclusion is not acceptable to the SDS Club, because it can in principle satisfy some discussions in one part, but we think that some words, some expressions or some views here are not a reflection of the overall discussions, which are held at the plenary session. I even think that some of these findings, I don't think, are bringing us into a dilemma, so we're thinking about how and how to characterize it. For example, an example in the first position, that is, the second position to be in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up general and operational strategic documents. Be careful, general and operational, why now and strategically, and what about non-strategic documents? Which are a strategic one that is non-strategic and whether non-strategic will produce the Council of Ministers or MPs will do so, and I think it is an expression used by only one MP at the plenary session, I think it was Mr Muratović, I think, I'm not sure or he is. I apologize if it isn't, if I'm wrong. Also, there is a similar situation with structural reform, what about non-structure reforms. What are the structural reforms, and is there unstructured 81 reforms? And what makes a structural expression, when it fully satisfies the expression, I say again... these documents should retain all the reforms that need to be implemented in order for BiH to be what we want to see. So all reforms, which, of course, involve both those more complicated and those less complicated and those that enter into the structure of BiH and those that do not get into some problems. Also, paragraph 3 speaks again about these structural reforms, where we propose that BiH's internal character be characterized except as a complex and multinational state and as a decentralised state, because it is. If we accept that it is and is both multinational and complex and decentralised. Also, in private, so I'm not a linguistician, but there's one illogical, linguistic illogicality here. If we speak in the text of the BiH text, so we speak to the state, we mention the concept of states, then we mention, of course, the concept of entities. If we mention BiH in the context of the state or state of BiH, then we mention the names of the entities and that is one logical language thing. It's not very important, of course, that the Gentiles, I think that the text has identified shortcomings, and I would pray, indeed, that we return this text, or we do it, and then we give it to this Parliament and that we all agree on it, because how important it is that we agree on this text, says the debate at the plenary session itself, and the tasks that await us in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8159	Who else wants to talk? Mr. Kunić Petar.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8160	The Honorable Presidency, unlike Mr. Novaković, I would accept the whole of this conclusion, because they really represent the common denominator of the debate. It's very difficult to write something short and express the course of the debate. I think there's been a lot of effort here, because it's very hard to write short and make a thought, to express an atmosphere one course that ruled. That's why I would accept this without any further interventions. What you say is responsibility. Responsibility can, but then you must include all institutions. So, the responsibility of all institutions, not to put in some yes and some no. I think this is acceptable and we need this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8161	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Milorad Živković came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8162	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we from the SNSD Club think these conclusions are appropriate to the discussion that was there, with some small technical corrections. They're acceptable to us. We believe that, perhaps more precisely, it is said in the first paragraph, the place of the road, that BiH's path to the European Union is the highest priority, that BiH's membership in the 82 European Union is the highest priority, that, in accordance with what the representatives of the European Integration Directorate have given us, and the European Commission is making a feasibility study, that perhaps the Council of Ministers can't do so either, and under general operational, strategic documents, it is meant, possibly a feasibility study, that it is said that the Council of Ministers is in charge to assist the European Commission and other institutions of the European Union, etc. And what Mr. Prime Minister said in 2009, we would say by 2009, not to rule out the possibility and to get in early 2009 means the last year to come, so it's more appropriate to write by 2009.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8163	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else wants to talk? I now call on the President of the Commission. These conclusions are the conclusions of the Commission on the foreign policy of our home. The same conclusions were adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy of the House of Peoples, therefore, identical and, very important, that the conclusions go identical and tomorrow is a session of the House of Peoples. Now here is the President of the Commission for Foreign Policy, who followed, actually proposed last time the debate. These conclusions are, in fact, what was said as a proposal for conclusions at that session that was voted on. Today we only have a technical editorial of these conclusions. Gospdine Ragzuž, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8164	These conclusions, therefore, are from a stenogram of debate, which has been accepted here. Nothing was added to them except what was brought here when we declared that we would only bring this to the verification and, believe me, because there was another home, the Commission of the People's House, to harmonize the text, did the initial text to not say, you again etc. And, indeed, a great effort has been made to reach a political consensus on very important things. We're rewarded. It's a six-month deadline. The European Union has given the order to move immediately with the feasibility study. So the full effect of this debate and the work of this Parliament has been achieved. Don't make me suggest now. I don't even see any big differences, even what's said, believe me, I'm honestly speaking, except for the language repairs of the text and the precision of whether it's a path or a membership, whether it's in 2009 or until 2009, and I don't see that there were strategic, general and operational, it can stand. So I don't see that now it was essentially a discussion of the content of the conclusions, which showed the political seriousness of this Parliament and of all the political parties. Don't let that through. Here's what I can do with the House of Peoples by tomorrow, an additional two or three suggestions, but we can adopt these conclusions. They were like this. We adopted them and I don't see that anything here is questionable, given the character of the debate and the slightest possible content and I don't see that anyone is well... that question. We can make additional efforts in this direction that have been a few suggestions that we'll languagefully prepare by tomorrow and that the same text will be adopted and if their commission has adopted this completely and taken over. I thought the House of Peoples let them have an initiative in that direction. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8165	I don't think we're able to do it, and I don't think there's any need to, to do any repairs in this text, that's before, because they're technical. There are some that can be interpreted differently. I ask you, therefore, tomorrow is a session of the House of Peoples to declare these conclusions in this text how, as you got them on the benches, that we are not going to the amendments to those formulations, because I fear it will not lead us there, that it will not lead us where it should bring us today. I'd like to ask, see if there's any backup. After all, that is what Parliament adopted. Mr. Avdić, are you after my word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8166	I know we're already partly tired, but people this is the supreme legislative authority of a state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means it would be extremely uninvited to show a high degree of ignorance. What does strategy, tactics, operatives mean? Which means it's unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable. A detail that stands and says, general and operational strategic documents. There are no people of operational and strategic documents. No generals either. He has a strategic and operational document. It's quite clear, and I suggest that the president of the commission relaxes it, harmonizes it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8167	How precisely do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8168	Strategic and operational documents. Nothing more. Second intervention, if possible. Strategic and operational documents, it's quite clear and there are no dilemmas. There's another intervention. To carry out the delegation of powers from the international community to domestic institutions. This is a very problematic, simple formulation. I suggest next. In order to process the international community's authority in BiH, according to the Madrid and Brussels conference. We cannot allow any authority to replace someone to replace the MP, to appoint a member of the Presidency, etc. So this is very important. This is an essential question. This is not, therefore, the transfer of powers, but the removal of the international community's powers in BiH, is not a transfer of powers. No, I don't. No authority in BiH has that authority and the Madrid conference and there is no need to transfer it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8169	I will now suggest this to you next. Here, now, I suggest. This text of conclusions, take it and just add these technical repairs that have been made here. Mr. Živkovićje said instead of the word "put" membership. It's a thing that's correct and we have to accept it. Then he said, Mr. Živković, i.e. full membership of BiH 84 in the European Union in 2009 until 2009 to accept this and to accept what Mr. Novaković was talking about, and what Mr. Avdić also spoke of as the third thing to be accepted, to say that there is no. So, like this: Both of the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly task the Council of Ministers to create, eh now writes general and operational strategic documents, and to say that instead of these words, it says "to create strategic and operational documents, in collaboration, etc." and three things to accept. Can we vote for these conclusions, for these three things? Who's in? I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Jozo, why are you asking? What's that in your hand, Jozo? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? -33 MPs, 31 for -2 abstentions. Does he need an entity? You don't need an entity vote. So we adopted, because in this majority there is an entity majority. We adopted these conclusions how you got in the text with three of those supplements that I specifically said here in the stenogram. Let's go to the next, last 20th item of the agenda. Ad. 20. Giving consent to ratification a)Open Sky Treaty, opening debate. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8170	Since the chairman at the previous point wouldn't let me say, I had a business intervention and apparently didn't get a chance to perform business intervention. Namely, I suggested a conclusion. I don't see why that conclusion wasn't even on the vote. I really don't see it, with that before the president of the committee agreed to my conclusion in some way. Look, here's the thing, I appreciate that the chairman can draw from the discussion and suggest conclusions, but if I suggest it, then he should put it to a vote, and I have clearly suggested the conclusion that the text should be prepared. Obviously, it's no problem at all. Since this point is over, I mean, we can't put that thing back.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-22-0.u8171	Momo, Mr. Novaković, if you insist, we can take it back, but if you don't insist, I'll take that in mind. So, I did have to put formal and your motion to vote as well as Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal, but believe me, people that there are so many proposals here, and such a stunt has to make it possible to come to some solution that, simply, the situation and at the end of the day, and finally, Mr Novaković, here, with only two votes abstentioned or against me, I don't remember 85 anymore, it doesn't matter, adopted these conclusions and practically said what he thought. Two abstentions practically said what he was thinking. If you insist, I'll put you in the process, because you're right, and we'll wear ourselves out further, but since you don't insist, I thank you for that. We're going to discuss giving consent to the Open Sky Treaty. Who wants to talk? If no one answers, I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to give consent? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 35 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, gave its consent to the ratification of the Open German Treaty. b)Completions to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer, London on June 29, 1990 Who wants to speak? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives with 35 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, gave its consent to ratifying the addition of the Montreal Protocol on Matters that damage the Ozone Cover of London on 29 June 1990 c)The amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Matters That Harm the Ozone Cover, Copenhagen on November 25, 1992, who is in favour? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives with 36 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, gave its consent to ratify the amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances covered by the ozone envelope, Copenhagen, on 25 November 1992. d) Amendments to the Montreal Protocol adopted at the 9th Meeting of the Parties, Montreal 17th September 1997 Who is in favour? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? 86 So, I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 36 votes in favour, with no votes against, without abstentions gave its consent to ratify the amendment of the Montreal Protocol adopted at the 9th meeting of the parties, Montreal on 17 September 1997. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, this way we have brought to an end the work of the 12th session of the House of Representatives. I announce the end at 17 hours and 20 minutes on the same day as it started and I inform you that you are being swept, because it is planned that in May of the month we have two sessions of the House, possibly three sessions of the House and the first next session of the 13th session is planned to be held at the latest by 10.05. plan your activities. Thank you very much.
