ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6914	I am opening the 6th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all present at today's meeting of MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, representatives of the OSCE, the EU, the Observer mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and all others invited. I welcome the representatives of the media and give everyone my sincere congratulations on the occasion of New 2003. I agree that today's session is attended by a total of 39 of the 42 MPs. Today's session is not attended by Mr Đedović Ibrahim and Kragulj Nikola. I did not receive a notice, only a little bit so I did not receive notice of their absence and Mr Potočnik Mladen, who justified the absence of today's session, according to a report from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests have been given the agenda for today's session. The agenda, which was indicated in the call in which the first item of the agenda was scheduled - Confirming the appointment of the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have also received a new agenda, just after entering the hall, in which as you can see, there is no such agenda as to confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the moment we called for today's session until today, the College of the House of Representatives has been in constant contact with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić and the Office of the High Representative. Since political parties did not provide proposals for ministers in the Council of Ministers for which it is necessary to carry out the verification and consent of the OHR Office of the High Representative, although it was done throughout the holidays, it did not complete its work on verifying and granting candidate consent so that the College decided today that we were not considering this item of the agenda and therefore proposed the agenda of today's session without this item of the agenda. We believe that, in order to join the process of confirming the Council of Ministers, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Office of the High Representative for those ministerial positions for which two consents are required. So since it's not over until today, we don't have the right to discuss this item of the agenda. Once again, I note the verifications and consent of the Office of the High Representative have not been completed today because political parties, some political parties only submitted their proposals until 31.12 last year. It was too short a time to be able to do the necessary checks and end the process of granting consent. We have announcements from the Office of the High Representative that the process of verification and the necessary consent will be completed during the next week and the House session at which we will discuss the issue of confirmation of the appointment of the Council of Ministers will be held next week, and we will discuss the date, members of the College and presidents of the political parties' clubs. So this item of the agenda will be the subject of a special session that will be held next week. So much for the clarification on item 1 of this agenda for the appointment of the Council of Ministers. You now have this innovative agenda in front of you. It is practically the same without this point, which also has several very important points. In particular, this applies to the points concerning criminal law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Protection of Witnesses for which this House is obliged to determine the procedure so that during January of the month, this month we have fulfilled the procedural assumptions that these laws are on the agenda of the House. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Who wants to talk? Here you go. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6915	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have come out to propose an extension of the agenda, and this point would be called - the problem of the appointment of delegates in the House of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to inform you and also ask for an opinion on a possible way to address the problem involved in the appointment of delegates in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina House, given that we are witnessing a procedural vacuum in the process of nominating candidates in the House. Namely, regarding the provisions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, which stipulates the mandatory multiethnicity of the composition of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's people, i.e. the proportionate representation of candidates from all three constituent nations in line with the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision on the constitutionality of the people has created the problem of implementing the electoral results, because in order to establish the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, eight other candidates from the order of Serbian nationality are required. With this in mind, we are free to submit an initiative and put forward a proposal that two parliamentary seats have been won in the Tuzla Canton Assembly of the BOSS, both of which are Bosniaks. 3 Discussing this issue, we found the same and reached agreement to replace one of our members of the Bosniak nationality for a member of the Serb nationality from our list that did not receive a mandate. We spoke to the Electoral Commission for Procedure and she, reviewing the complete problem, referred us to this House of the Parlametary Assembly as legislator of the Electoral Law to the conclusion, because such a thing was unfortunately not foreseen in the Electoral Law. I therefore propose that the following conclusion be adopted after the debate has been carried out – in accordance with the Decision on the Constitivity of the People and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the replacement of candidates in the cantonal congregations is allowed solely for the purpose of national representation of delegates in the House of the Peoples of the Parlamett Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The candidates on the list who are behind the elected MP who resigns shall be allowed to submit statements denying the term of office in favour of the proposed member. This solved this.... which is now being created in the Parliament of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in the establishment and establishment of the House of the Peoples of that Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6916	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Who else wants to speak on the occasion of the agenda? Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6917	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed fellow Members, I will try briefly, of course, to comment on the agenda and to propose amendments to the agenda and, of course, expecting support from fellow Members. By the time I came to this session and saw that there were no members of the Presidency and that there were no prominent ambassadors and representatives of the embassy I knew that unfortunately the work on the constitution of the Council of Ministers had not been brought to an end, although it was horrendously announced that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be very quick to rejoice and that they would get the irrefutable Council of Ministers, that the problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina were economically social and that the next rulers would realize this difficult situation would do everything possible to get the Executive Council of Ministers or the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to have happened or the party representatives, of course, are now guessing, I at least guess, have failed to agree on the division of the prizes won in the elections, or the Office of the High Representative and the OHR did not have enough time to agree on individual solutions related to individual ministries. But if so, then the question arises why should Parliament choose the Council of Ministers in the first place? If we do not have the right to confirm the Council of Ministers or to dispute in accordance with the agreement, then it really loses any sense that we confirm such a Council of Ministers. It would be good if, in the way he asks the OHR to be informed of every candidate, so does the MP in this house. I ask the question will we have all the results of individual checks and we MPs? Whether this will be delivered before Parliament's meeting and will not, so that we can discuss and decide on the selection of new ministers and new ministerial councils. So these are my personal dilemmas. I argue with no one's right to do its part of the job, but I simply want to fight for the right of MPs and Parliament to decide when it comes to selecting the Council of Ministers. If we're just going to be pirates in a position to vote take or leave, then it's not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state I'm convinced of. But what's here is. It is likely that in 10 days, as the country is being led by a Jaran policy, the officials will agree that they will invore the public and convince that everything is fine and that 4 only needs to take a spoon and a fork and feed the hungry mouth in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is not few. But since you're missing, I'd like to say that this is also the precedent that makes up the Extended College. If I got the agenda five days ago, gentlemen, then they're informing me that you're calling a six-session for which the next agenda is proposed. Then the session had to start with that agenda, so we could take those points off that they weren't ready, not that for an hour or 15 minutes before the meeting of the same promoters we get a completely different agenda. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's not good to care, no matter how we are sometimes brought into such a situation. I'm aware that sometimes when we get into a difficult situation, we choose perhaps the best possible solution. There's no business opportunity. I assure you that such a business possibility does not exist, unless we're going to introduce a Jaran policy here too, so someone says there is, someone says no. So we had to decide if we were going to take the agenda off after reason why we couldn't decide today. This is how the public remains denied that information. She's very important. But what's there is. So here's to going back to this second part 15 minutes ago on the agenda. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that it made sense that we couldn't, or we could have met, that maybe it was more likely that we'd met earlier, that instead of these strong conclusions that I didn't slow down the agenda points, we'd put into one where this parliament or this representative council would take a stand for the ferocious crime of killing the Anđelić family. Not to make politics and politics, but to warn local and entity authorities that they are responsible for something that happened. Does anyone know that anyone was responsible for any crime in this country? You remember I was an MP when what happened in Banja Luka, which is also a crime. Then there was an extraordinary session of Parliament. I was the first to support the extraordinary session, and therefore I ask you today to put the agenda on the table, by the way, to define one, that the clubs together define one conclusion in which we will warn the public, condemn the crime and warn the municipal and entity authorities that responsibility must be borne for what is happening on the ground. Do we have a report on whether anyone in the MUP has resigned at least because three lives have been extinguished, or in a ferocious manner, by a murdered family. Is in this country what we're saying going to be essentially what we're talking about once? Will there be responsibilities? You've seen the inaugural speech of the future Prime Minister where the word responsibility has been mentioned 100 times. And here today, unfortunately 10 days after that speech, I ask-- is there any responsibility in this country? How is it possible for the College not to remember, so that it does not say here is the turn that Parliament, if everyone in this country has called to say yes too. So I suggest, as part of the agenda, one conclusion in which we will condemn crimes to call all levels of government to account, because it can only be a barrier to new crimes in this country. So I suggest it as a 7th or 9th point, and to move the 9th, it's a ratification of these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6918	Thank you. Who else wants to take part in the debate? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6919	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure, I have a proposal for a agenda point of proper resolution. Otherwise, considering that under Article 47(3) of the session held for less than 10, the agenda can be proposed for this time, so in this light I am using my right to Article 50(1) of this Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, I am asking for a new point to be added to you and I have one instance for you, Mr. Chairman of the relevant material. Namely, aware of the responsibilities expected by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2003, while respecting the fact that co-operation with the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague is an integral part of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the relevant laws adopted after a long time by both entities, while knowing that full integration of the European structure is based on consistent co-operation with the ICTY and full respect for internationally accepted norms. We should show both the determination and consistency of preparedness for the rapid and consistent implementation of reform documents that have been defined and adopted by domestic authorities. In fact, I would like to remind you that in recent times, the termology by which that document is a job and justice is a document of the High Representative. I would like to remind you that this is a document of the domestic BH authorities adopted by the Peace Implementation Council, so work and justice and education, and on the basis of Article 121, which I have proposed, which I propose to introduce a resolution that has very clear and short three points. First, the Parlamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on all state and entity institutions to develop an operational programme of co-operation with the International Court in The Hague and to apply it without delay. The more we will have at the next session, Mr. Terzić's inagural statement. This is a good opportunity for this resolution to commit him to the relevant activities and parts of his program and his cabinet. Two to commit the Council of Ministers to co-ordinate overall co-operation with the ICTY, given that the arrest of Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić is a priority for all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And three, that all war criminals must be brought to justice and that no one has the right to seek or hide behind the support of the people who were their greatest victim. This is the first session of this year, the first working session, a session awaiting the appointment of the Council of Ministers. I think that in this way we must go to meet what is before us and show that the reform orientation that is being looked at through the document of justice cannot be implemented without some basic assumptions such as those of this resolution. I must admit that for me, it is a direct cause to insist today that we determine today the statement I read in the press yesterday, and since I did not see today the deficit that the High Representative allegedly gave a statement from the BBC that was conveyed by the domestic press that Radovan Karadžić would be arrested when he stopped supporting the people. If any of us had made that statement, the High Representative should have replaced him. I still believe the High Representative didn't make that statement. I want to believe, I want to believe and I expect it to be determined accordingly, but this parliament must be determined according to such a possible statement and such a real statement. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I am giving you three here for you, one for the secretary and one for the mandate of Mr. Terzić's resolution, here you are, and there's no need for me to tell you the six points of the Rules of Procedure which oblige us to make this clear. It's simply incomprehensible for me to get out of this session today, not to give our assessment of what I'm talking about for one simple reason why history knows many people, dictators and criminals who had the support of their people that they brought to the dark. Both Hitler and Staljin and pola Pot, that I do not speak of Milošević and Sadam Husein and Bin Laden, have the support of certain parts of their people under conditions that cannot certainly be called democratic. And to call upon such a thing and to us, by the people who dream of doing a job and justice is the easiest thing to say is what this Parliament deserves at least, and I would therefore ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you know what to do when this resolution comes to the agenda and I would ask it to be today, to make a statement about it and to show whether or not we are reformers, and the content of the resolution can be further discussed in a natural way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6920	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6921	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that point 4 of the Council of Ministers' request to consider BiH's Proposition of Criminal Law, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, as well as paragraph 5 of the Council of Ministers' request for the examination of the Bill of Criminal Procedure, under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure take down today's session of the agenda, that this goes into a regular procedure, that it declares it appropriate, about this, because in the meantime there are a lot of comments that, when we talk about criminal law and the procedure that it is practically inapplicable in the way it is done, that it is done, that it is established Roman law, Eurokontinentano, Anglusanksonsko and that we have got a first monster that will not work and it would be good not to go through an emergency procedure, but to let the Commissions determine that they are to give their opinion and that, indeed, in this House, we do not make it so easy and I think that Parliament should respect it today. As for the first item of the agenda, we've received a statement from the College that it's related to party agreements and OHR. It would be correct to tell lawmakers today also in an explanation of who it is of the parties that are partying in power did not respect that party agreement, which is why we, as Parliament, are suffering. It would be just as good to deliver your candidate's biography today, given that you already have and that you sent it to the OHR's office, that it would be correct for MPs to also get acquainted in time with the candidate's biographical data, so that we could discuss it at the next session to conduct a quality debate. In this way, you have admitted that there is another place in BiH, not Parliament, which decides, practically, on this and that this is how we undermine Parliament's heights by the College, means, the leadership of this Parliament. This would not be good at the start of this Parliament's work if it were to happen and in order to correct that mistake, let's say, at the very least, that it is a lack of understanding, that all that has been delivered to the OHR, be delivered today during the session of the members of this Parliament, so that we may have the opportunity to make that clear. And, of course, in that haste that you've obviously miscarried and she can be seen today. You have come to the situation that you wanted to get to the Council of Ministers at that speed, that at the same time you did not make sure that previous actions, which are very important in this country, should be done quite correctly, in order for this job to be qualitative. And this is under the responsibility of the previous term of office, now chairing the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. I hope his statement that he said shouldn't be thought of and I'll go to OHR enough and what's dictated there to be carried out. I do not think that this is the way the BiH Parliament should work. We must have our autonomy, our independence, and based on it, indeed, to take fate into our own hands correctly and begin to correctly solve these problems that we have in BiH. If there is a policy of obedience at the beginning, which is really seen here, then I think the citizens will recognize it very much, and they will see that this support they have given us, should in some way be expressed through someone else giving dissatisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6922	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Kunić Petar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6923	Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, allow me to say a few words about the agenda. I have not been quick to report on procedural matters before, believing that it is in some way holding back the efficiency of this Parliament's work, and my wish is that this Parliament works effectively and that it makes very successful decisions in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. This time, indeed, confirms that there are some things that do not measure, and I would like to criticize the College with a lot of boldness to propose points 4 and 5. These are very important laws to go by emergency procedure. These are unacceptable things. You can't find anywhere in the world to get your system laws proposed by an emergency procedure. Some law may be overrun by an emergency procedure, but it must be a short law or usually amend and supplement the law and certainly not a system law. I think it is unacceptable that the College, therefore, the Presidency, in future work takes care of these things and that these things do not come to Parliament anymore, of course I suggest that this be removed from the agenda and put into regular procedure. Secondly, when it comes to the Council of Ministers' proposals, I think the current council of ministers, from the moment it became a technical council of ministers, has no possibility and has no right to propose laws. These are very important decisions, based on Parliament's most important decisions, so it is not acceptable for the current council of ministers, that is, from the moment it became the technical advice of the ministers to propose laws. So my proposal is clear. I suggest that these two laws be removed from the daily beam, placed in the regular procedure, that the Constitutional Commission review these laws once more, because as my colleague Gligorić said, these laws are a real mixtum composite. The real mess is in those laws. There is no differentiation of jurisdiction among BiH entities and state unions, and in this sense some adjustments should be made, i.e. all provisions should be thoroughly considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6924	I thank Mr. Kunić. At the same time, Mrs Palavrić and Mr Muratović reported. The word is Mrs Palavrić, followed by Mr Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6925	Respected Presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Since we will be able to make a statement about the proposals that are made here when it comes to removing points 4 and 5, it surprises me that it is not even 6. I just want to warn us that this does not mean that passing laws by emergency procedure does not mean passing laws without amendments, without being able to act on the text of the law on the very proposal. This 8 means only approval of this home that we are considering the law within half the deadlines that are shorter than normal procedures. I believe that all three of these laws deserve this, because after seven years, since the signing of the Dayton Agreement, the BiH state still has no criminal law, no criminal procedure law, and I find it inadmissible, and I believe that these are the first steps of the implementation of the document "Work and Justice", which we have agreed with the High Representative. So, really, if we're going to show and be reform parties, I suggest that when we make a statement on these proposals, we make it clear that all three of these points remain in today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6926	Thank you. Mr. Muratović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6927	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you that such laws are passed under accelerated procedures in the event of war, in the event of occupation and in the event of a coup. I consider it necessary to leave enough time, not only to leave enough time, but to ask for opinions, first of all in Parliament, from the people who want, first of all, the commission, but also others who want to make their comments on their law, then, in professional circles, from the Bar Association, from the Association of Lawyers, from special free experts, which we know and who are known to colleagues from Parliament, or from the services in Parliament, and that only after such opinions have been received debated on these laws. A shortened procedure would make it impossible for such a thorough and broad discussion to take place. Our judiciary doesn't stand very well in all the grades and that it would function the way we want it to and how we need to be very, very careful when passing the fundamental laws it works under. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6928	I thank Professor Muratović. Mr. Živković Milorad has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6929	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, given that there is no business possibility of removing these points of the agenda on the 4th and 6th of the SNSD Club, we will vote against the requirement that these agenda points go according to the hot procedure, on the other hand, but for the reasons set out here for this speaker. As I have already come out, given that in several previous sessions, the opposition has been called for obstruction of Parliament's work and I believe that this session today may not have come to the agenda if it were not for the Council of Ministers to be declared, I am curious to know who has been obstructing the work of this Parliament today and to call the parties responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6930	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6931	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, BiH Party MPs understand both in a way and support the arguments of those who have warned that these are serious legal projects, which deserve the attention of this parliament. But the problem is that we don't hear the other side and we're not considering another kind of argument, and it's about the next one. You know there is a BiH Court. This country's already funding it, it can't work full capacity without a legal framework, that's one thing. Secondly, someone from the Council of Ministers should explain to the MPs what it has been so far and how it has been done on these legal projects, or whether consultations have been carried out, what Mr Muratović is talking about, how much time has been spent on this, etc. I highly doubt that this is a legal project that, within 24 hours, has appeared at Parliament, so that we could decide, it would be good to hear the promoter, the processor to bring us into the history and way of creating these legal projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6932	I thank Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Lozančić Niko.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6933	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I must say, here's thinking whether or not you come forward at all for the word that I feel pretty ugly today as a representative at the Parliamentary House of BiH. And here I am a representative of what many here call the parlamentary majority in this house and I have to say that I don't understand why the agenda has changed for today's session, or I do, but I don't like what I understand. I don't like the fact that this parliament and this parliamentary assembly still don't have another home, but it's gone. I don't like the fact that we have to take responsibility for everything and everything, and not ask ourselves, or have the right to ask ourselves without the permission of anyone else who will be government in this country, who will be ministers in this country and I'm asking myself and you and us. Will your ministers, after they get their consent and after those checks, which I, frankly, will not know, who, where and for what it does. Will you, after receiving confirmation from those of whom he has received, have the need to get confirmation in this home? Will we have the right to call them to account for this house, or will they be responsible for those who give them consent? If so, let us immediately launch a debate today on the amendment of the BiH Constitution, as constitutional provisions say this is the only home that gives confirmation to the Council of Ministers and no one else. If we want to build BiH institutions, and I want it in truth and I believe that those of you sitting here together in the truth want it, we must preserve the dignity of these institutions. We cannot allow ourselves the luxury of not having the right to decide on very serious things while someone doesn't give us the green light and we can't afford the luxury of someone else's haste, as my predecessors have said, of passing systemic laws. I will inform you that at least three of the five MPs at the HDZ Club haven't even received those laws yet. These are the facts, these are the circumstances in which we should work and take responsibility from the citizens of BiH for the reforms we have promised them. In view of the same, the distinguished representative Mr Špirić suggested that the House be shown for the cruel crime against the Anđelić family, I am encouraged that the representative from this home has found it appropriate to at least through the intervention to ask that this House be made manifest and I welcome this request and thank Mr Špirić, but I will also be well against that 10 requests, for the reason that I will request, on behalf of the HDZ Club, that this House is a quick appointment to discuss the political and security situation in the premises of BiH, as well as the crime that took place in the village of Kostanica, unfortunately, only culmination of numerous incidents that have recently, for me, unclear reasons for the whole of BiH and which are not giving any of us the right to appease any conclusion that we will bring to any addition. I think that the institutions, however, now I don't know which and for this reason I didn't initially ask for this, because I honestly expected that today we would have a new council of ministers and that council of ministers should give this Parliament one piece of information about overall security opportunities not just one crime or one incident. Is it the Council of Ministers in the technical mandate, is it some other institution, I must say, I don't know at this point which I would have addressed to us, means that we as representatives are having a responsible debate on the basis of quality information rather than on the basis of news reports. I therefore, and also because of the fact that I honestly have dilemmas, whether some of the points that are scheduled today in the agenda are supported or not, I am asking on behalf of the Club a half-hour break to consult on the draft agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6934	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6935	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, let me just say a few of my visions, this session is scheduled, I would say under emergency conditions, or emergency circumstances, because we expected today to have an appointment, which I also said that, after what was happening, it would not be possible to do so, and here today it is coming true. But the other thing that was very present here and which is, I think, very interesting to me. It's always said here whether we can or can't put an end to the Rules of Procedure and how it goes, etc. Here, from my experience of ten years, these questions of the Rules of Procedure and the application of the Rules of Procedure must, above all, be that we have a ministry in the Assembly that will define precisely that we are not constantly repeating ourselves on the same issues, which are constantly, here, but not knowing which session they are repeating. It is a question that is so simple if the Rules of Procedure is taken, then those lawyers must suggest to the chairman and the Presidency that this point be classified or not, but that we have an argument, a real argument. This way, it seems like we're going to have a debate all the time, which we're going to have, unfortunately, to spend a lot on who's better at knowing the Rules of Procedure, and those who should be working, in fact, not giving him the answer to that question. The third thing, in the last session, I raised in writing a parliamentary question that reads: What will BiH entity authorities and authorities do to ensure the security of the return of refugees and exiled persons in order to prevent terrorism against these people? Unfortunately, in this meantime, what happened at Konjic, which, I think, absolutely fits this question and I think that point of the agenda, I support it, because I asked that question, I think it deserves to take a special place at one of the sessions where we will precisely specify what we do for the 11 security of those people who return to their homes, not only to RS, but, here as seen in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6936	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Will any of these technical services see if anything's broken or what? May I have your attention, please? Who else wants to talk about the agenda? If no one ever comes forward for the agenda, then I'm the one who concludes the agenda debate. We have a request from the president of the HDZ Club for a 30-minute break. Before I take a break, so I'm obliged to take a break. You know that today is Friday and that a number of MPs will have obligations between 15 and 12 o'clock and 1 o'clock. So we're in the next situation, if we take a break by half past 12 then it's practically a break by 1:00. Here's what I want you to know. You're staying at the break. Right? Then we'll be back to work at 1:00. Thank you. The break was made, among other things, at the request of the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Lozančić and I give him my word. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6937	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's how I've been looking for this little break that lasted a little longer, I'm going to try to explain one more reason why I asked for it and direct you to the proposals for today's session. I will take that order as we get the defined agenda for this session. I appreciate that the agenda for today's session is the agenda that we received in the calls and that this is the agenda that is in line with the current Rules of Procedure, regardless of how much less or more is known to one of you, which are the reasons why this item is proposed from the agenda, I think it would be correct for the whole public to have the chairman of the Council of Ministers as the authorising officer and all representatives and the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public explain the reasons why we cannot have this item on the agenda today and, in that sense, the HDZ Council of Representatives will seek and request that the chairman of the Council of Ministers explain the reasons for removing this item of the agenda. The second question I have discussed and also asked for a break is the fact that we have a whole series of system laws on the agenda, which are properly included in the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. But given the fact that HDZ representatives have not even received the material to be discussed and the fact that it is laws that define one and that a serious area in BiH, we are looking for, that is, a statement, the HDZ Representatives Club will not support the requirement that the same laws be discussed under Article 104. In addition, I have sought a break also because of the fact and because of the assessment of HDZ's Club of Representatives that the political security situation in BiH has been marred by a number of incidents in the entire BiH area, which culminated in the serious crime against the Croatian family of Anđelić in the village of Kostanica near Konjic, and we appreciate that this situation deserves a serious crackdown on this home rather than just an ad-hoc indication of one of these events, and we will propose that within 10 days, and here at this point I think we have enough signatures of representatives to call 12 extraordinary meetings of the Parliamentary House of BiH Parliament, with a point of the agenda of the current political security situation in BiH, and we will propose that the rapporteur be president of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6938	I thank Mr. Lozančić. At first, the agenda was closed. We now have the next situation. In terms of the first item of the agenda, therefore, I do not know whether I have been clear enough, or whether the chair is proposing the agenda. Before this session, you were given the agenda in which the first point of confirmation of the appointment of the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers was indicated. Before the beginning of the session, the College of this House held the agenda you received. Therefore, the amendment of the agenda, and it is the College that proposes the agenda, i.e. the chairman. So that's where you got the change. You've got a agenda that doesn't have this first item of the agenda. Therefore, confirmation of the Council of Ministers, and there is no reason why we did not get until the beginning of the session an official decision on the appointment of the Council of Ministers, because we are confirming the Council of Ministers and it is normal that there cannot be something on the agenda that has not arrived until the very beginning of the session and therefore the College has sent this amendment to the agenda. I explained at the beginning of the session the reasons why it didn't happen today and I have no intention of repeating them. So much for the first item of the agenda. So she's not on the agenda. The second proposal, in turn I will go now, was Mr Špirić Nikola's proposal, and to him is Niko Lozančić today the crime committed against the Anđelić family. That's Nikola Špirić's suggestion. He literally said as I just said. Mr. Niko Lozančić suggested that, on the basis of Article 47(3), Article 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure, which appreciates that the political and security situation in BiH's area has been disrupted to a significant extent, with a whole series of incident events culminating in the serious crime against the Croatian family of Anđelić in the village of Kostanica municipality of Konjic, the undersigned deputies are seeking to convene an extraordinary session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives within 10 days of the agenda of the current political security situation in BiH, we propose that the rapporteur be the chairman of the Council of Ministers on this agenda point. I think that this proposal, therefore, I can present my opinion here immediately, there is no need to go out for a payphone, I think that we, by the way, have to pay attention to this topic and I personally think that Mr. Niko Lozančić's proposal is a complete proposal, so it refers to the security situation throughout BiH, it concerns all cases of endangerment, murder and everything else that has happened, especially when it comes to returnees. Here I have information that today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if I am not mistaken, there is a woman named Čaušević Rabija who was killed two days ago. So, obviously, this home will have to and should, of course, pay attention to this problem and I suggest that Mr Špirić give up his proposal to accept this proposal Mr. Niko Lozančić made, and here is which I join and then do this on the matter as proposed by Mr. Lozančić. You can only stay with your proposal. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6939	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6940	I'm just asking for a moment. We'll vote. You have the opportunity to stay with your proposal or give up the proposal to accept what Mr. Lozančić was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6941	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I've made myself clear. It seems to me that BiH's public has been shaken enough by what happened. I regret, of course, and for this case that took place in Costa Rica, for all cases in BiH, but I cannot believe that this House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH today will not condemn all crimes, and that, and here comes the proposal, and that this is not slow to hold a special or emergency session dedicated to the security situation. I can't figure out if it's some kind of collapsing or if crime is going to become a matter of politics. I'm afraid it doesn't get into that, and I didn't even want to replicate a respected colleague, so I agree it's an extraordinary session. So, I support this proposal as someone would now want by one verbal act or let's just say one conclusion that, well, he washes his conscience. Have we come to this country yet? Is it really possible for this home today to go beyond the conclusion that this and all other crimes are being condemned and that, of course, there is a special session when the competent authorities are preparing a report? Well, as far as it's possible, I said in the Konjic municipality that there's no moral responsibility for living in the federal ministry. So what else is going to happen, so someone can say gentlemen in the community where I'm the head of the community where I have my own police commander, my family, was murdered. Is there a need to make sure that from one nation the head of the second assembly from the third station commander is a poor mother to us and a sad mother? Thank you very much. I'm asking you to put my proposal on a plea, not to put me in a position to say that I support this second proposal, but it's a proposal to hold an extraordinary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6942	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I think I've made myself clear. In this room, I don't think there's a man who won't convict crimes against the Anđelić family and all the crimes that have happened and are happening in BiH. So, I think there's no room in this room and that's what this home is about, uh, the undisputed thing. Here is the question of what, therefore, to make such things a warning that such things do not happen, but Mr Špirić, I will put your proposal, as the Rules of Procedure requires, on the agenda of that, so don't doubt it. Please, we have Mr. Niko Lozančić's proposal for a special, so emergency session within ten days, about the problem we've been talking about. I have a warning, it's okay, I think the intervention's fine. So the MP has first on it and this will be realised by the College and we will not vote on it. Then, we have a proposal from Mr. Nikola Špirić to place this event, this crime against the Anđelić family, as I understand it, Mr. Špirić, on the subject. 14 Who is in favour of this proposal? So, all the cases. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I understand that we are the proposal for this conclusion, which will condemn this event as well as all other events and crimes and attacks on returnees, Špirić suggested that this be the point of agenda 9 and we adopted that. The next proposal was from Mr. Morankić to give an interpretation concerning the federal home of the people. I would like to inform you that we have received a letter from the Bosnian Party requesting that the interpretation of certain provisions of the Election Law be interpreted and I have forwarded this letter to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I suggest that we refer this proposal to the Morankić and Legal Commission, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission interprets it and deliver it to us, if it should be here at a session or you prematurely, according to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Do you accept this and not vote on your proposal? Can we conclude that? That's the conclusion. Here I propose that this conclusion be referred to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that this is how we resolve the issue of the agenda point proposed by Morankić. Who's to suggest this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against this conclusion? Are there any others who can handle it? I don't konstatovati that we unanimously adopted this conclusion and we only have one more thing on the agenda, it's a suggestion that points 4 and 5 of this in-intended agenda be removed from the agenda and 6. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will only remind you of the provisions of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, when it comes to debates under the laws, which are proposed to go according to emergency procedures. So this is not a rapprochement in principle of Article 105 which basically means taking or leaving, so this is a debate under Article 104 that assumes only a half-term reduction and does not exclude the possibility of investing amendments. Article 104 says this: "When the bill is put forward, the proposer may request that the bill be considered an emergency procedure. In that case, it is obliged to explain in particular the reasons justifying the urgency of the procedure. The application referred to in point 1 of this Article shall be submitted directly to the home, at the first next session. The House will decide on the request after the debate." So this is a mandatory item of the agenda. This is a matter of procedure. It's not a matter of nature. This must be on the agenda, and you first have that when we discuss it we will or will not vote in favour of the proposed procedure, votes in one way or another. Therefore, I am unable to rule out this item of the agenda or put something to the vote, which is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure to be a part of the agenda and, in the end, to know, this is not a proposal from the College, this is a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers. That's how we actually ended up. I'm sorry. Please, it's good that you're here to distract me and we have one more thing, that's Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's motion for a resolution. He suggests that this resolution be placed as a part of the agenda and we propose a statement. 15 I ask you who is so that you may be, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6943	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I'm sorry I have to have a business intervention to use before the vote, so we don't make a misunderstanding unnecessary. The resolution is defined by Articles 121 and 122 on our Rules of Procedure as Article 121(2). I took advantage of my right to point 1 and in the preamble of the resolution I called on the whole point, Article 121, meaning points 1 and 2. Point 2 is defined very clearly and precisely that any MP can submit a motion for a resolution that I have done, and immediately afterwards it is said that the motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session. It's in the Rules of Procedure. The proposal will be discussed at the House session. That's it. There you go. You can as Dom here behind the comma stands at point 2 of Article 121 unless the House decides that it is necessary to consider it previously. First of all, I didn't even read this part, because I thought it was so much of a notorious fact that, really, the commission doesn't need to tell us that this is something we have to determine. Therefore, the motion for a resolution under the Rules of Procedure must be considered at the House. It may, when it comes as a part of the agenda, be rejected, it may be, I did not call myself in the resolution itself, because I did not consider it necessary for Article 122, which says that in the second sentence of point 1. you can see that amendments to the proposed resolutions are submitted in writing at any time of the session, which means that when we come to that, then an amendment can be intervened so that the entire resolution is not valid, so you can give the amendment that war criminals should not be arrested, all of this can be given. But so much for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6944	I understand what you're talking about, Mr. Lagumdžija. So you think that this must be a part of the agenda and there's no voting about it. That's how I understood you. Please, nice. Then you didn't say which point in order to make it a college. Okay, here's the 10th point of the agenda. Okay. We can talk about it when there's a debate. You can express your views about it like that. I realize we have the agenda of today's session, which reads like this. You're only giving me this innovative agenda, please. 1. Record of the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives; 2nd. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Weapons and Military Equipment; 4. Council of Ministers' request to consider BiH's Proposed Criminal Law, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Witnesses, under threat and at risk of witnesses, Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 7. Proposal for a conclusion on the setting of criteria for the professionalisation of Members; 16 8. Proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of the parliamentary procedure under the proposed laws and other acts referred to in the previous call; 9. Proposed conclusion regarding the conviction of the crime at Costa Rica and other crimes and attacks on returnees; 10. Proposal for a resolution by Mr Lagumdžija; 11. Giving consent to ratification: (a) the International Convention on Counter-financing of Terrorism, (b) the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Turkey, (c) the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, (d) the Agreement on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between BiH and Spain, (e) the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and the Czech Republic. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The record of the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives, you, ladies and gentlemen, have received the text of these minutes. I'm opening a debate on the third record. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6945	Ladies and gentlemen, I greatly appreciate this initiative initiated by the MP Mr. Lagumdžija, but I am also in favour of bringing all things here to a purely business end. It says here - any MP can submit a motion for a resolution, Article 121(2). The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides it is necessary to consider it first. I must say that I am speaking from experience, and I have long been in both homes of this House that each resolution first went through a committee phase concerning amendments, integration, upgrades so as not to become an object of politics, not a genuine desire to solve the problem that the subject of the resolution was defined. That's why I'm asking that we let the Rules of Procedure know whether the resolution goes into commission or not. If he's going to go into the commission phase, he's going to go into the commission phase. If it becomes a part of the agenda to go to the agenda. But let's not get any closer to it, because you see, it's not the speed of the rabbit that caught it, it's the overrun. The parliamentary procedure is like that. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Although Lagumdžija's colleague was honest enough, he said he didn't think it was necessary, but he wrote it in the Rules of Procedure. But you who are obliged to interpret the Rules of Procedure should interpret it as it says in the Rules of Procedure, and I will say my position against this resolution by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6946	Okay. Watch this. So a member. Please. I can't hear what's wrong. Please, this is what it says. Be careful to be me now, so Article 121 of Section 2 reads, please. – Any MP may submit a motion for a resolution point. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the Home Point session unless the House decides it is necessary to consider it first. 17 Watch out. So it's not a question of having to go home. It is, it's okay, but it has to decide whether or not it's going to go to the commission stage first. This intervention is fine. Wait a minute. I ask the MPs who it is. So I have to get back to this, to this business intervention, this is how it is in the Rules of Procedure. So we need to see if we're going to make that point, that resolution on the committee, or we're going to discuss the House here today without a commission phase. Please, hold on a second. I ask the MPs who is to refer the resolution to the committee? Thank you. Who's against it? Against the commission to be in session today. Thank you. Are there any abstentions? How come he doesn't have a majority? He doesn't have most of them. Wait. Just explain a little bit to me here. Okay. So this proposal has not been adopted and this remains the agenda item for today's session. We voted therefore the resolution remains. The way I compared the agenda. Let's do that part of business. So, the record you got with the 3 sessions. I'm opening a discussion on the record. I'm asking you who it is, who wants to talk about the record? He doesn't want anyone. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to adopt the record? Record, minutes please, minutes with three sessions. Well, I don't have to repeat it 100 times. Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? How many MPs are total? I find that 37 votes are yes, there were no votes against and there were no abstentions that we adopted the three-session minutes. I'm opening a discussion on the 4th session minutes. Who wants to talk? Here you go, Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6947	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, not to say that we haven't read the record, I don't care here about asking the High Representative's question, it just doesn't have my name, so I don't even care to be, but let me say I've read the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6948	And it did really ask a question. I suggest that professional services complete this part. It was Mr. Jovanović's question. Does anyone else want the MPs to talk about the record? If he doesn't want me to close the argument. We're moving on to a plea. 18 Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 4 sessions in the text how did you get it with the remarks made by Mr Jovanović? Thank you. Are there any MPs who vote against? There isn't. Are there any others who can handle it? There isn't. I find the House unanimously with 37 votes, whether 37 votes in favour, without votes against or without abstentions, passed the four-session minutes. We're moving on to the second item of the Ad agenda. 2. MPs' questions and answers Dama and gentlemen's MPs, although so far we have not had an official item on the agenda of MPs' questions and answers, I must admit to myself that there have been a lot of questions for this speaker through this or that form. And here's to having that fact in mind, but whatever it is, I'm obliged to give the opportunity to ask questions and possibly give answers. So this is the first time officially this point of the agenda. The MPs also taught written questions at previous sessions. We have so far not received a single answer to a single question, and I say opportunities have been used, especially in determining the agenda, which I am very aware that the instructions of the questions or what they want to say through the form of the parliamentary questions. But here you go. MPs' questions. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ćeman Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6949	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am one of those who has taken advantage of the opportunity in previous sessions and asked two or three questions in writing. I didn't expect any answers right away. I have asked for a written reply and I hope that in due course, it will likely be the task of a new council of ministers, or new ministers, to arrive. For today, I have one question to ask the Council of Ministers, and I am probably one of the present colleagues, even now in the new whether the role could have been answered, but I will, of course, spare them that and do not have to answer to me, but I expect the future council of ministers or the resolution ministry to answer. Namely, whether the Council of Ministers can influence the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision in the mode of transport of special goods to oil derivatives, e.g. through the Izacici border crossing, and what does it do to change that? At the time of the tourist season and for ecological reasons, oil tanks are grouped in Karlovac, so they say only in the evenings and are accompanied by the border crossing. This directly reflects the security of traffic in Bosnia and Herzegovina and causes additional costs to the transporters while they are in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I also want a written response under the script to note that in connection with this issue, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted an inquiry to the Bosnia and Herzegovina foreign ministry in mid-November. I don't know what fate is in the correspondence between these subjects. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6950	I thank Mr. Ćeman. He still wants to ask a question? Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6951	Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, I, like Mr. Ćeman, have already asked two three of my questions in writing so far and I have been waiting for this matter to start regularly as a permanent part of the agenda. I expect answers even though one was very current, and here I am just going to repeat it, which is - When and how is the program of work of this congregation expected? Today, he would ask the following question concerning the agenda, which is - We have a memo number 494/02 of 20.12., so a very high score that both homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly Parliament informs that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is withdrawing the Proposed Criminal Code from the parliamentary procedure delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly 24.7. - The question is, why is it withdrawn in such a period, that is, why is this information given to us, and today, by emergency procedure, this law is addressed to parliamentary procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6952	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. I'm just going to give an answer after one question has been addressed practically to the College. When it comes to the work programme of this home, today is the session of the Extended College attended by the presidents of the clubs of all political parties and the Extended College is the body of Mr. Moranjkić, who raises issues related to the work programme and today it will all be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, because we must address the Council of Ministers and other authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deliver their programmes, their proposals, their opinions and then to do our work programme. But that session is today after this session. You've informed club presidents are actually informed as members of the Extended College. Mr. Hazim Felić still asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6953	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, my question of written nature has been addressed to the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I'm looking for a written reply, and it concerns Radio Bihac. Let me get this straight. 57 former and part of the current workers have sued the Public Company for wartime, so-called. War wages to the suspect at least by the court's verdict. They got it, and it's likely that Radio Bihac will be shut down because there's no way he can settle those salaries. 20 I asked the Agency for Communication for Reasons, I asked for a written answer – is it possible that Radio Bihać, who was first given the permission to work on Canton of Unsko-Sanski, would be transferred to a new radio that could possibly be established by the municipality of Bihać to continue working, or to restore the request to some new radio that could work in the area of Bihać municipality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6954	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6955	Gentlemen of the chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a long time from the official, semi-official, international most responsible circles tell stories that it is circulating outside the budget in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is stolen annually to a billion KM at different levels. There was a story about a customs affair in Republika Srpska, about a customs affair in the Federation. There is a story, I have data that only two banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina are at a time when hundreds of thousands of people hungry have washed only two banks a billion KM through fictitious companies. Is there any chance, is there any chance that this Parliament should be informed by the competent authorities whether this is accurate information? If it is true whether people are processing or we have created an environment for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be the largest money launderer in Europe. If so, whose interest is that? So I ask that the competent ministries of the entity and the Ministry of Finance of the Republika Srpska and the Federation inform us how much KM has been washed through fictitious companies according to their knowledge? They even have departments for that within the ministries. Citizens are beginning to suspect it's a matter of politics, not serious concerns about collecting public revenue. Even the reforms announced by the OHR and the international community are under question that there is only a story of crime to accept the reforms. If it is true that so much money has been embezzled in this country, then the guilty must be found and arrested. That's the only answer that's adequate on the database. So a billion marks were washed at a time when they're hungry pensioners, when they're hungry and those who are employed, not those who don't. And that's why it would be good to have that information on the table. We won't get anything if any of the internationals tell us – if you don't want this, you know you'll let a billion marks spill into private pockets. We're in a situation where more people stop believing these stories, and it's true, ladies and gentlemen, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the biggest money launderer. So I ask the authorities to answer how much money has been laundered through fictitious companies and how much has been misused within the customs systems of the Federation and Republika Srpska? This will help us to find a easier answer to what is called reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6956	Thank you. Mrs. Palavrić Sead has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6957	I won't be able to be as kind as my colleague, Ćeman, so spare the current Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Minister. I ask that dà concrete information be given to us at this time with the Agreement on the passage through the Port of Ploče and the protocol offered by the Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, as far as I know, is absolutely unacceptable? So, what did the authorities of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina do with the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the Agreement on the passage through the Port of Ploce is ratified in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia? And second question - what is the relationship between the agreement of passing through Luka Ploče and the agreement on the passage of Croatian citizens through Neum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6958	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6959	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would also like first of all to submit one proposal or one inquiry, a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a fundamental precondition for the implementation of a document known as - Business and Justice is the harmonisation of the functioning of the BH Institute of Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One institute is the international community, and another institute is the legal elected authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as Parliament and the Council of Ministers. In this regard, I propose that for the next session, that the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the House of Representatives of the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OHR propose or that its vision of functioning, the improvement of partnership relations between the institutions of the civil authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community, i.e. the OHR. I think this is necessary. We are simply ahead of us with large tasks, especially a document generated in common with the simple civil authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers, and known, I repeat again under the name – business and justice. That's one thing. It means in writing or oral form. I prefer in writing to give us my opinion on the functioning of the partnership relations between the Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community institutions. In all its visions, dimensions, dynamics, etc. etc. And the second question, I think we must change this practice simply and this routine in terms of asking parliamentary questions and answers, I think it would be a step towards improving what is called parliamentary life in this House, the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is that during the parliamentary questions and answers of the Council of Ministers, which we will, by God, say the next session of the House of Representatives, appoint and approve the appointment, simply be present in their entire composition and that this hour of parliamentary issues or more simply be the most referred dialogue, i.e. oral answers from the Council of Ministers to asked questions. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6960	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Živković Milorad has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6961	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my predecessor, and it would be a good practice in this house to establish that the Council of Ministers should be when the question arises, especially what can we then share questions and answers to two bodies. One that we will ordinarily appoint and the ministers will respond, and the other one we will give in writing at that session and expect to receive an answer at the next session. As of January 1st this year, after major peripetias to the joy of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the prices of oil and oil derivatives in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been brought together. Accordingly, and yet in the interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask the competent ministry -- will the price of mobile telephony impulses on the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina be leveled, or will the roaming or whatever they call it, so that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not pay at a higher price when using another network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6962	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else wants to ask a question? Mr. Bešlagić, and let Mr. Gligorić be prepared and then I hope we've concluded that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6963	I just wanted to maybe fix Mr. Avdić's request a little bit. I am asking the Council of Ministers to set up a programme of work with the international community, not that the international community dictates to us what co-operation it will be. I think it's normal, our request if we don't do it, whoever learned to hit, he'll still hit. We must be the ones who offer them in fact, and let them accept or refuse. I think that's it, I'd say a partner relationship, not the other way around. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6964	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6965	Ladies and gentlemen, as an MP, I request an answer that the BiH presidency responds whether any activity relating to the BiH SR Yugoslavia lawsuit is financed from their budget. There has been a lot of information in the public lately that certain assets are financed like travel, stay, etc. Therefore, I think the Presidency should answer this question. At the same time, when we talk about parliamentary issues, I look forward to the fact that the Council of Ministers has not been established and we have an obligation, or they have an obligation to those who are wondering to respond to this 23 to the next session, practically the House of Representatives. How are you going to coordinate it as a College, I'd like that deadline to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6966	In this way, we have exhausted this item of the agenda of parliamentary matters. You have a question, you have an answer? You'll just wait a little while for me to do this part of the job I'm supposed to do as chairman, you'll get the word, as foreign minister, I guess. Ladies and gentlemen, I have today allowed questions to be asked orally after a pay phone. I did not want to refer to the strict provisions of the Rules of Procedure at the first session, when you have the opportunity to ask parliamentary questions immediately. So, but I'd like to invite you to know in the future, because I have some bad experience, my own with these questions from an earlier term, and I'm not very quick, among other things, and because I'm interrupting MPs asking questions, but I'm obliged to tell you this. To be asked, according to Article 125. The Rules of Procedure shall be submitted to the Chairman in the form in question. The submission also contains a statement as to whether the MP is asking for an oral reply in the home or a written reply. In case nothing is indicated, it will be considered that the answer should be given orally at the home session. So you've been asking questions. I would ask you to, in short lines, everyone who has asked questions today to make an effort to deliver them to the Service of the Parliamentary Assembly, and in the future, when you intend to ask questions, I ask you, because I draw your attention to clause 125. Rules of Procedure to do that. For now, Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija has reported from the Council of Ministers to give an oral reply to Mrs Palavrić, if she asked for an oral response and she did. The word is Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6967	First, Mr. Chairman, let me remind you of article 127. Rules of Procedure, seeing as you have become very consistent with the Rules of Procedure, you should first, after the first question, give the word to the Council of Ministers or the relevant Minister, because under Rule 127. The Rules of Procedure were treated immediately at the beginning after you have been asked a question, you immediately give a word to the President of the Council of Ministers. Since the man is not here, then, probably, to one of the ministers to answer or say he's not ready to respond. On the other hand, Mrs Palavrić did not say whether it would be oral or written, but now she told you it was oral, and otherwise, it was defined as Article 125. You didn't have to ask her, because if she didn't say whether she was oral or written, then it is understood that she would orally. Although she couldn't even say it, because to say it, she had to say it in writing, and she didn't. But regardless, when you want to ask a question, you ask the question of how is it in Article 124 here that questions are asked to the Council of Ministers or to any member. This is where the Minister of Foreign Affairs was appointed. It is still me, although I expected my colleague Ivanić to take the job today and I have no doubt that he will answer you in the right way. However, I am not in charge of answering that question. To answer that question, Minister Hadžiahmetović is the primary one, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for such a secondary matter, so since I have been asked a very specific question, I am giving a concrete answer from a secondary point of view, not pretending to give you a complete 24 answer to your question, because I expect Minister Hadžiahmetović to tell you a few words. You should know that the Pile and Neum Agreement was signed by the late President Tuđman, which suggests that it is not such a fresh agreement. So it's an agreement that was signed some five years ago, as I remember five years ago, almost six, but it's not six, and that agreement hasn't been ratified, exactly for so many years. This agreement, indeed, binds Ploče and Neum in a certain way, very precise and ratification stands in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. But I think the solution can be found and it's almost found. I think it would be very good, if you don't mind, that this question, in some way in the context of goodwill, which, I'm sure we all have together, we try to finish by preparing the new Council of Ministers for appropriate information about this problem, in which it would be good to, perhaps, at the commission stage and then at Parliament, try to come up with some common steps, because the worst step has not been taken. And the worst step would be if, in accordance with that agreement, a single spiral would stop us all from going through Neum, and with the consistent application of that agreement, in response to that, stop the use of Luke Ploche and then open up a spiral that would put us all back together where we shouldn't go and what we have now is a less bad solution, which is, we don't have anything. It's a good solution to ratify an appropriate agreement in terms of neighbourly relations, and I'm not going to say we go back to that situation five years ago, don't let God say it, but it would be good to see how, what was signed five or six years ago, as soon as possible before it went off. And, in the end, I must say, Mr. Chairman, that I would like to know now about these questions that you said, here you have asked. Do we need to prepare answers for them, because the Rules of Procedure say that within seven days we should give answers, so if we don't need to put a new council of ministers on hold right now, I think it would be correct not to just go into some procedural confusion, that we are not preparing answers to this question, and I did not in a certain way call Minister Hadžiahmetović, but it is logical that she answers you, although you are not Minister Hadžiahmetović asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6968	You're done. I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. ministrica Hadžiahmetović is answering for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6969	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Comrades and fellow MPs, here I am called here and allow me to make a few remarks and answer. First, a colleague of Lagumdžija said that I was primarily, by definition of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and only a secondary foreign ministry related to the Port of Ploče Agreement. I am also very interested in this agreement, and if I have to tell you that the primary ball is at the Council of the Republic of Croatia, for the simple reason that all BiH institutions, so the Council of Ministers and both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, have finished their work. After a signed agreement in 1998, by then the chairman of Mr. Alija Izetbegović's presidency and the president of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia of the late Mr. Tuđman, the agreement was ratified in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in both homes, and the question of what made this council of ministers, in relation to, say, previous calls, etc. to speed up the ratification procedure in the Parliament, I will just tell you that this is the Council of Ministers, precisely because of the interest in ending the procedure for the Agreement as soon as possible and leading to this becoming the point of the agenda at the Council of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, it is still very high-ranking, but I want you to know for all those who do not know that until then it was not even sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the parliamentary procedure until the acceleration, to say, of communication on the route Sarajevo – Zagreb to end the procedure. What exactly is this about? So, he keeps trying to impute that the ball is on the side of BiH either in Parliament or in the Council of Ministers. But I would like to remind you all, that a copy of the written agreement written by both sides, and at the same time ratified by one co-signator, under the provisions of International Law, is possible to amend, possibly, the Agreement which is, for some of the controversial, or some of the provisions of that agreement, can only be amended after the ratification process. So, the ball is on the side of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I'd still like to remind you, it's '98. in the year when the agreement was made, it is the agreement which covers regulations, which relate both to the Port of Ploče and to the corridor Neum, that it is a single agreement, which is extended to normal, bilateral interstate relations between the two states under the provisions of International Law, that even they are potentially controversial provisions made in accordance with the provisions of International Law, which, of course, does not mean that they cannot be changed, but still in accordance with the provisions of International Law. Unfortunately, even if the legislation of both the Republic of Croatia and BiH knows the Institute of Temporary Application of International Agreements, this agreement is only applied by the Republic of Croatia in one part of its section relating to the passage through the Port of Neum. Therefore, it does not apply in order to subsistence and its application is conditioned by a full package of relations, i.e. through the completion of the ratification process in the Republic of Croatia and if other interstate agreements between BiH and Croatia are applied before the ratification process is completed. Why is that, maybe we should ask those who were in '98. in power, why they did not immediately join the provisions of the Agreement because the possibility existed under the International Law and under the internal legislation of both the Republic of Croatia and BiH. But I don't think we should open those questions. We are often heard by some officials, even parliamentary representatives, high-ranking in neighbouring Republic of Croatia, advertising about this agreement, and I think it would be good and what was, at that time, a colleague of Belkić is here in office of the presidency, in communication with representatives of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, there has been talk that, indeed, access is possible to all the modes, of course, in accordance with the provisions of the International Law, that all issues related to it are resolved, of course where they belong and in the manner and in the procedure as it is. I just want to mention that on your note that we now have nothing from our colleague Lagumdžija, that's right, and I think he made a statement from that agreement. Unfortunately, it's not true, but fortunately, it's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6970	Let me just warn you in time, so you guys keep going. It's time-traveling.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6971	Let me finish. This Agreement shall apply in part, therefore, to the partial application of this Agreement in respect of corridor Neum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6972	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. This is how I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank, therefore, for the questions asked and for the answers to the questions asked, well, among other things, the part that was educational, in terms of respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, by adding to that part that I always tried to take care of the relationship between substance and form and to make sure that the form did not go into the waters of formalism. Therefore, do not worry about the Rules of Procedure, and thank you, otherwise, whenever you call on your discussions to the Rules of Procedure, because that is the way it should be done. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Import and Export of Weapons and Military Equipment You have received a report from the Commission. As you have seen, the College has reached its agreement under the bill, in accordance with Article 65(3). When the College achieves agreement, it shall inform the House. Therefore, no vote is held and I hereby declare that the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment has been adopted in the House of Representatives. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.4. Council of Ministers' request to consider BiH's Proposed Criminal Law, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure You have also received a request under criminal law that it be considered in a shortened procedure, therefore, by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. It says in the Rules of Procedure that it is an emergency procedure, which is, in fact, a shortened procedure, it only shortens the deadlines in half, leaving the possibility of investing amendments. Has the proposing representative, since there has been a request here for a proposing representative to say something about the need for such a procedure to address the House? Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications at the Council of Ministers Mr Svetozar Mihajlović. Here you go. You can deal with all three laws, Mr. Mihajlović, right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6973	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, fellow ministers, I am sorry that this law is not, or these three laws have not come to all MPs, it is very important that we have a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6974	It's all divided just so you know. Go on, I'm sorry, I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6975	The Council of Ministers decided to refer the three laws to a shortened procedure on the grounds that the BiH Court of Justice should be brought to life in full in January. So, by the end of January and at the recommendation of both the OHR and the people who did these three laws, it would be good to have these three laws passed in the parliamentary procedure during January, which I have no doubt. That, therefore, was the reason why he followed a brief course of action. Of course, the shortened procedure involves all that you said could be put into the amendments to the proposed law and that it would be discussed. So, just one little shortened procedure compared to one regular procedure that would require a longer period of time, which is that in January, we have these three laws passed, so that the BiH Court of Justice in full capacity, which is planned by the end of January, can have laws on the basis of which it will operate. I would like here a short constitutional basis for the adoption of these laws to be found, above all, in Article 1/4 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under which there is freedom of movement throughout BiH. Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities will not interfere with the full freedom of movement of persons, goods and capital. How situations can occur in which the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the BiH Constitution should be protected, criminal protection of these rights and freedoms must be prescribed through BiH's criminal law. In Article 2/2 of the BiH Constitution, which directly applies human rights and freedoms set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Protocols, which have priority over all other laws and whose achievement and protection must be ensured by the BiH state. The protection of these rights and freedoms from criminal acts must be provided for in BiH's criminal law. In Article 3/1 g), the BiH Constitution, under which it is provided that, under the authority of the BiH institutions, international and inter-entity criminal laws, including relations with interpol, are to be implemented, a constitutional basis for the adoption of criminal law at the level of the BiH state. In Annex 1 to the BiH Constitution, according to which the exercise and protection of rights and freedoms must be made possible to all persons in BiH, without discrimination on any basis, gender, race, skin color, language, religion, political or other beliefs, nadional and social origin, binding to any national minority, property, birth or other status. In addition, it should bear in mind the opinion of the Venice Commission, which, on behalf of the High Representative, gives an opinion on the competencies of BiH and entities and the delimitation of these responsibilities in all areas. The fact came especially when the Federation of BiH Penal Code was adopted, when the Office of the High Representative clearly distinguished what was in BiH's jurisdiction and what was in the entity's jurisdiction. The legal basis for the adoption of the BiH criminal law is contained in Article 13(1). Law on the BiH Court of Justice, which established High Representative for BiH Decision No 50 of 12.11.2000, BiH Official Messenger No. 29, which was later confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly, so both homes, according to which, among other things, the Court of Justice of BiH is responsible for the trial of crimes established by the Law of the State of BiH and that this law determines the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice for the crimes. Reasons for passing the law. The above-mentioned constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the BiH criminal law follows that the BiH state as well as all other states must have its own criminal law to regulate criminal and legal protection in areas within the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions. This primarily relates to an area governed by a number of international conventions that oblige BiH, for example. The '48 Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide. A year. Four Geneva 28 conventions from '49. in the year, the Criminal and Legal Convention against Corruption of '99. the year, which provides for the obligation to prescribe criminal and legal protection for certain actions prohibited by international law. For these very reasons, it was proposed that this law be passed so that BiH could respond to its international obligations on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to provide criminal and legal protection on the inside in the area of its exclusive jurisdiction. The ministry of civil affairs and communication was the bearer of the project, preparing the proposed BiH law. The law was prepared after the intensive work of a working group composed of experts from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the Office of the High Representative and other prominent legal experts in BiH from both entities, and full agreement was reached on the three laws. So, criminal law, criminal code and witness protection laws. So this is for the first time that these three laws were done by domestic experts, in coordination with OHR experts, but the main word was done by domestic experts. So experts from both entities, which is one newspaper positive that we don't get laws that are well done somewhere on the side. It was done this time by domestic experts. More answers to the question. Why was the earlier proposal for criminal law withdrawn, which passed the procedure at the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, in one home. It has come to this that, after the alignment, exactly with domestic experts, there has been an improvement in the text mentioned, and we have decided not to go through a large number of amendments to the existing law, to withdraw this law and offer this solution that you have now received. I expect that there will certainly be certain amendments to the proposed laws, which is good and that this parliament will essentially accept these three laws in order to respect why we all advocate "work and justice" that reforms to the judiciary can start immediately without delay at the beginning of this year. So, it is expected by the end of the year that the BiH Court will be completed in full session, so that the court and its subject-matter, i.e. the law, and it would be good to do so this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6976	I thank Mr. Mihajlović. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Kunić Petar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6977	Madam Chairman, I suggested at the beginning of the session that this be removed from the agenda. You have an article 51. Rules of Procedure. Not only did you violate that member, but you also violated Article 104. You had to allow, therefore, the House of Representatives to plead whether they accepted the proposal to conduct the debate in a shortened procedure. You didn't do that. That's what you had to do. Secondly, I think after serious, very serious remarks, there is no political agreement that this law is going into debate and that pulse you should have felt. If we want this Parliament to work effectively. We've had very serious remarks. So please, how will we discuss this law when some MPs have neither received nor read the law? Should we accept the laws in this House? I ask you not to put such things on the agenda in the future. If we want to seriousise this parliament, it will be a serious parliament of the state community. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6978	Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6979	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I do not dispute the need for BiH to have such a law, nor the disputed opinion of the Council of Ministers that, or a proposal to discuss this under Article 104. What is controversial to me is, in general, the possibility, that we as a House should decide to accept what the Council of Ministers proposes. Namely, Article 98. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that some law was passed when both homes adopted it in the same text. As urgent as this may be, this law wasn't passed until it was adopted by the House of Peoples. The home of the people is not even established and Bog knows when it will be established. Therefore, I do not see any reason why any argument for urgency that we may need in some of the laws in the next period, we also use where it is simply impossible to realize it. For this reason and for the already carried out by my colleagues from other parties, the SDS Club will be opposed to considering this law under Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6980	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Wrong quote, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6981	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, respecting the reasons Mr. Kunić stated when it comes to the content of these laws and importance, but he mentioned a state union. I would like Mr. Kunić to talk about the BiH state in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6982	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I remind you that, please, I'm speaking now. You had a chance to talk, you had an argument. A little attention. I remind you, therefore, we need to determine ourselves not about the law, but about the procedure, which basically means cutting deadlines in half. There is a possibility of investing amendments. The promoter said the projection is that the BiH Court should live in full capacity by the end of January o.g. That is why this procedure is also proposed, because these are the laws necessary for the functioning of the BiH Court and all MPs will have the opportunity to make amendments to the law. The criminal law passed the House of Peoples in the first reading in an earlier assembly. It's true. Hemorati have to be in the House of Peoples, and in this home of the people, this is now a new proposal, it's previously withdrawn, but, therefore, it's only a matter of procedure. I'm asking you who it is to consider criminal law under Article 104. Who's in? Thank you. Did you choose for? Who's against it? Take a little care of your friend. It doesn't make sense. That's the way it is. Say you want to work, we'll give you a break and then finish the technical work. Did you count against it? Yes, it is. Abstained? Did you count it? 30 We're moving on to an entity vote. The law has this general majority 18 for – 13 – against and 2 abstentions. Who is from the Federation of BiH in order to apply the procedure of Article 104. Who's in? Thank you. Who is from Republika Srpska to apply this procedure to Article 104? Please, just a little attention. The Federation of BiH voted 16 for this procedure, and Republika Srpska voted 3. So there are no thirds of the RS entity and procedures, this procedure, related to Article 104, is going to be agreed on by the College. Please, nice. Here is the Secretary of the House and here is the College who interprets the Rules of Procedure. Home voted so that in terms of procedure, you can of course by the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear it. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6983	Ladies and gentlemen, I must be honest that we and the last term have had problems interpreting the Rules of Procedure, because we have such secretaries that whatever government comes at us like clockwork. Well, what it used to be couldn't right now. We, therefore, make a decision on the procedure and it says Article 101 of point 4 there, unless a decision is made, it goes into the ordinary procedure. Yes, point 104. Therefore, since it has not received the necessary majority of the entity, this legislative project is going into regular procedure, unless the College says again on the next, let's go to Article 105 who last time and can do it in this parliament. You know when it was dual citizenship, then verification of the agreement. So once I refused to go into regular procedure and only three days later could be 105. But that's what the Rules of Procedure says. I'm here to stick to the Rules of Procedure. If someone repents the way he voted, then it can be corrected on the next legislative project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6984	Mr. Špirić, thank you for your business intervention. I ask the Secretary of the House to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which point to the conclusion and resolution of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6985	Dear Members of the College, honourable MPs, I really don't want to come into confrontation with any MP, but I am not any bell that turns around here, I am a very responsible lawyer and for all my consequences I am ready to answer. So it's a small intervention, Mr. Špirić won't blame me. According to Article 104, we are talking about emergency procedures. The home shall be declared first of all on the request for an emergency procedure. If such a request is accepted, the deadlines set out in Article 84(2), 90(2) and 93 shall be cut in half. We started the voting process and we came only to the first part of the voting process, when we got the total majority of those present and who voted, but we didn't get the entity majority. We have to finish the voting procedure, as I interpret the Rules of Procedure, and so far I've always been here in this house interpreting it, we have to finish it by the end. 31 Article 65 is decadent. I'm talking about the voting procedure on the request, not the law. If most votes do not contain one third of the votes from the territory of each entity and we are now in such a situation, or if it turns out that the quorum is missing, the chairman may set a break of up to 60 minutes, during which he will try to find a solution. In the event of an insufficient majority, or if the issue is not resolved after the break, the chair shall convene the College within the next three days in order to achieve agreement. Please, if I'm correct in interpreting, and I'm prepared to say my actions are always answered, but here I say realistically, what is in the Rules of Procedure. We started the voting procedure at the request of the Council of Ministers to consider criminal law by emergency procedure and we arrived only the first part we did not get the entity majority. I appreciate the need to implement the harmonisation procedure within 60 minutes, or within three days if a compromise is not reached within 60 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6986	I thank Mrs. Todorović. Please, nice. I'm interrupting the debate on this subject. So, the College and I, as chairman, did the right thing. So this thing's going for a match. We won't interrupt the session now. We've got three days to agree and I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mrs. Todorović. This is how it's read, so as it's written and we move on. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Code on Criminal Procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Dama and gentlemen of the Parliament. No more business interventions after the Secretary of the House came out and said what he said and the College interpreted it. This is the College of Interpreting Rules of Procedure. Please, nice. You can make an observation, you can write, you've said what you have for a pay phone to say. I have concluded the agenda point and the unmistakable intention of going back to that agenda point. We're moving to the next fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Code on Criminal Procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, you've received this text of the law. The promoter also spoke in the opening section of the agenda. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? It's a matter of procedure only. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're crossing the line. I ask you who it is to consider the Code of Criminal Procedure under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? May I have your attention, please? I ask the MPs not to communicate loudly between themselves during the session, except for the pay phone. Please watch our turn in the congregation hall. I declare that out of the 34 MPs – 18 voted in favour – 14 voted against – two MPs were abstentioned. The motion for a procedure was given to the general majority of Parliament. It is necessary to hold a vote on entities. 32 I ask MPs from the Federation of BiH who is in favour of this procedure for the law on criminal proceedings? Thank you. I ask the MPs of the RS who is in favour of this procedure? Write it down here, please. The procedure under Article 104 of the law on criminal proceedings in the Federation of BiH entity received 16 votes and 2 votes in RS entity. Therefore, the matter of procedure under Article 104 is going to be agreed on by the College. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Witnesses Threatened and Threatened Witnesses, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure, you've been given the text of the law. The promoter explained in the opening statement and the questions related to the procedure under this law. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in favor of procedure under Article 104 of this law? Who's in, Dom? I'm asking the whole question. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. Give me the results. Thank you. Of the 34 MPs who voted 18 voted in favour – 12 were against – four were abstentions. I find that the proposal for a procedure under Article 104 for the witness protection law has a general majority of this home, and I also find that we should plead out by entities. I'm asking the Federation MPs who is in favour of this procedure. Thank you. I ask the MPs of the RS who is in favour of this procedure? Thank you. So there is an entity majority in the Federation of BiH entity because it voted 16 in favour. There is no entity majority in the RS entity because it voted only 2. I also find that the matter of procedures under this law is going to be agreed upon. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.7. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of criteria for the professionalisation of MPs Dama and gentlemen MPs, you have received the text of a proposal for a conclusion from the College, which was on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. You have, therefore, also received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has certain comments on the text of the conclusion and it proposes certain improvements in the text. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for this conclusion. Who wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6987	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, given what awaits us in the legislative procedure at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House, it would be good for all MPs to be at work in the Representative's Council and that the time ahead will be used in terms of the adoption of the legal projects needed by BiH to join European and Euro-Atlantic integrations. In this regard, it seems to me that this conclusion proposed by the College may also depend on the amount of funds provided for in the budget to some extent. I think all MPs must be put in the same position with the same rights and responsibilities and that if someone doesn't want to be a professional MP that it's his right to choose, but it would be good when we make decisions on any material means that we have some basis, some account. I think, or some kind of bill. I think that until now what we've been doing has been done from the sky to the ribs, and that's why we have problems with, among other things, the Budget and the draft of the Budget and the execution of the Budget. It's not a problem to say if there are 42 MPs who are all professionals, how much money is it. If there are one-third of them, if there are one-half of them, what is missing, what is it that will be missing and whether at all they will be missing and what should be taken into account in the budget's rebalancing. But I must tell you that this House voted against itself, just when we voted on the Budget, when I warned that the BiH Presidency was spending more money than both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When I advocated that the office of a Serbian member of the BiH presidency would be in Sarajevo, when Živko Radišić was in favour of me today. So, I ask you, once, we simply voted against the role and importance of Parliament, and especially that we are not talking about the need to introduce new joint delegations of both homes, a delegation for NATO, to control and not know the common European delegations and there will be more delegations. Therefore, there will be a missing portion of the funds for this external dimension that Parliament is carrying out in every European modern state. But I would like to conclude, therefore, that all MPs have the same right to simply read those who intend to commit themselves to this job that they have the right to choose and we simply find the funds and ask you nicely, as it is possible here for five – seven years from Dejton that we are unable to find the mechanism to look into the same eyes to discuss our receipts, the position of MPs, and that this Council of Ministers is always in a situation and you know for which reasons, and I must say that because the Council of Ministers usually join the party presidents or how Hrvat like to say it to the presidents, and then these poor MPs are not, they are not allowed to vote against their boss to have a higher salary than he and then come to the miserable position of Parliament in relation to all the authorities in BiH, rather than to have the Council of Ministers understand that we choose him and not vice versa. So, I don't blame the Council of Ministers for finding mechanisms to pay for myself, but I am fighting here to protect the rights of MPs and Parliament's rights, and I don't think they're high wages, no matter what the situation is. So here I propose that we introduce only one conclusion that MPs have the right to choose, and to make up for this as far as their work-professional engagement is concerned with the decisions of the Administrative and Financial Commission, which, by the way, defines it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Any other administration will open up space, you know this one can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6988	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6989	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, 34 I expected the truth, although in writing you received a report from the Legislative and Legal Commission. I expected that the College, which proposes this conclusion before opening the debate, as it is practiced with other proposals that someone would explain them on behalf of the promoter, therefore, that the College would also explain its proposal and, possibly, would show itself to, in my opinion, fully based remarks, i.e. suggestions, which were made by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I will not, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, repeat what you have received in writing in order not to waste time, but at this point as a member of this House, I will only, therefore, suggest in the truth that these suggestions be accepted as quite reasonable, and especially that these issues should be regulated by law and that the College, even this home, should, if necessary, and I think that the conclusion should be taken in particular, on this conclusion by the Council of Ministers or by whom it should be prepared by a consistent, complete law that would settle these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6990	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6991	I, along with Mr Ćeman and the other members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, participated in the session when we discussed the proposal for a conclusion and I fully support the Commission's observation that professionalising representatives in the State Parliament cannot be dependent on sufficient resources in the budget. If we accept that principle, then let's say so in the ministries and the Council of Ministers and courts, etc. I mean, it's offensive. We will certainly all share the fate of what is possible and what exists in the budget, but that only in the legislative government does the number of professionalised persons depend on how much money there is, indeed, if we allow it then we deserve it, not on us. However, I also expect citizens to consider us the most responsible in the state for good laws and then do so by being professionalized and professionally doing our job. Secondly, it is quite in place, because it was missing, the proposal concluded that we had only rights and there was no obligation. This first remark is, too, the Commission. But in the third point, in the third point, when it comes to salary and other incomes, the chair of MPs' clubs from the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of Article 7 should be leveled. In fact, we have a situation on stage that the presidents, the chairman of clubs in the House of Peoples are now far more privileged than the presidents of clubs in the House of Representatives, and they have maximum five MPs and I would only add here, not only the height of the salary and other receipts but also the obligations and powers of the chair clubs. So, in all things, to equalise club bosses in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I think it is necessary to reach this conclusion as soon as possible, because many people have been in the legislative authority and it has already been a month since we have been in this Parliament, it should work. Many people would like to be professionalized and do their best, and without this conclusion they cannot, in particular, conclude under the number of five that our rights are governed by law, such as the regulated rights of council members of municipal and cantonal so-called entities and states are governed by the conclusion of the Administrative Commission. So support the proposal for a conclusion with the observations of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and here's mine for point 3. Thank you very much. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6992	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6993	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to remind you of one very important item of the agenda, which we had here two sessions ago, it seems to me, when we adopted the Budget and if there were a lot of reservations, announcements about the rebalancing of the Budget, etc. Who he'll come to for sure. But I'm not sure it'll be in any increased amounts. I would suggest that, when discussing the criteria of professionalisation and the report on the proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Committee's conclusion, point 2 proposed by the Commission, in Article 2 behind the word "Home" to put an end to the words "depending on the resources available in the Budget of the Institutions." That this is almost in the preamble of these criteria, i.e. the decision, that it is just depending on the resources available in the Budget of the Institutions, regardless of how much the budget, or the rebalanced budget will be in the next period. Let that be the key to setting criteria, principles, the number of professionalized MPs and everything else. If this home is not managed by available financial frameworks and sets criteria based on some other principles, I think we'll go far from everything we stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6994	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Novaković. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6995	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I came out just to say that Klu8b SDS also supports the Commission's report. So, this conclusion with the Commission's report, with the fact that I think we need a little clarification of point 3 of the report, where we propose such a text. The amount of salaries and other receipts of the chair of the MPs from the House of Representatives of Article 7 shall be equal to the rights of delegates from the House of Peoples. So, this kind of text implies, it's not clear how even and in what way. Whether the reduced rights of delegates, the chairmanship of clubs from the House of Peoples or the increased chairmanship of clubs from the House of Representatives. In this way defined, I will repeat. Therefore, the height of salaries and other incomes of MPs from the House of Representatives from Article 7 should be equal to the first delegates, the chairman of delegates' clubs from the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6996	Thank you. Mr. Ćema asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6997	As you have seen in the report, I am authorized to represent the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, somewhere out there in Posnik, if I am not mistaken, it stands even that he who is authorized to represent it and defend it. You could have noticed with careful reading that points 1 and 2 of the report go into the text of the decision in particular and clearly see what should be deleted, i.e. add, so to speak, the amendment intervention. 36 Points 3 and 4, however, do not interfere with the text of the decision itself and do not intervene in the text itself, but point 3 actually through point 3. we make one suggestion, on the basis of the knowledge that the decisions of the Administrative Commission, which can address these issues with concrete decisions, can achieve this point, as Mrs Palavrić pointed out, i.e. as contained in point 3. Therefore, if there is a need for clarification, let them be kept in mind by the Administrative Commission, when it is decided on some concrete to say so to the belongings. I felt the need to remind this, therefore, of this, because in truth, points 1 and 2 of this report, it is only from this report that they are specifically intruding into the very text of this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6998	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u6999	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think the Commission has done the right job here, because there are some mistakes, I would say, proposed by the Professional Service, I assume that the Professional Service is this first proposal, i.e. implementing the rules. Since I've been on these committees for three terms, so I have some experience, I'm going to have one concrete proposal. He's been going that way since there were some proposals, and we had that experience at the beginning of last term. If you're scrambling, we last time, when there was a debate on the Budget, said you should rebalance, given that some institutions are not, either envisaged or missing funds etc. I think the Professional Service here is responsible, the professional service that follows us, the Joint and needs to criticise them to say, why they didn't initially provide for the funds by the decisions that they were, where it was possible for each MP, or delegate to be unless they did. But, so the funds were supposed to be provided, so those who won't, then the rebalancing can be done in that direction. Now we're in a situation, and last time we did a lot better. As soon as the congregation was involved, we predicted the funds. I now propose that within 30 days the missing funds be transferred, something similar to what counterpart Špirić spoke to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, while these rebalancings do to themselves when needed. That will achieve double effects. First, to show that the Assembly has its capacity and that it does not determine the Council of Ministers' budget, and make sure that they are very easy to manage those funds that need the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the total number of MPs, the total resources should be provided for, and the Administrative Commission will later, I suppose, coordinate all receipts with the new Council of Ministers' decision, but let it remain with the Administrative Commission and what is foreseen to regulate all these issues by law, I think that is also a good conclusion. Therefore, I do not know whether to vote or not, but we will be in a position to keep the information coming here that we have the right to be, or to be, MPs in a working relationship but there is no means. The funds need to be found. The priority is the Assembly. The funds exist. Taken off the position of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and as much as necessary. It's a very simple job. So you can do it for the next one, someone from the professional service, and make sure we adopt it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7000	Thank you. Mr. Izet Žigić, President of the Administrative Commission, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7001	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will discuss a little differently and I will join Mrs Azra Hadžiahemtović's thinking, in fact, we should think that we can share as much as we have. I would like to take a second position here, which is the position of both the BiH Parliament and the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions. We know that we are alimony that our destiny depends on the fate of the entity. Entity laws in matters of both MPs and entity governments have resolved the status of both. We are being resolved and awarded as much as the funds are allocated and within that, we can override whether the presidency will have three million or three and a half million and be insufficient and have two and a half million more to be insufficient or more or less or the Council of Ministers, etc. and fight for the firstment of new institutions for the functioning of the state, while taking yourself, these are games without borders. I think the key to this fourth conclusion is far more important than these last two. And that is to pass a law that will regulate relations, but to say by that law and where we will find the sources of the BiH state's income and the revenues of this parliament from which it will be able to finance itself and normally, so that it can normally carry out its function. We often forget when we pass laws, without any morality or desire to keep here speaking some kind of political platform of our party, etc. Let's forget the situation when we pass laws that allow or need to allow the BiH state to have its original income, let's forget about this moment. It seems to me that we're taking a lot of time to consider, exactly, decisions like this so that we can come to that. I think that at this point we should go towards sharing this parliament the way our decision went or before last time when Budget is at stake and that we are going very carefully to increase some rights for which we do not have cover. And, secondly, I would disagree when it comes to MP clubs if it were the same. A party club and a club of MPs operating in the House of Peoples. We have three clubs there. The three clubs of the people and it is completely separate from the club of MPs within these clubs and these are two different, after all, positions, which are different and functional and we even thus introduce political parties clubs equating with clubs in the House of Peoples, that it is not, should not be observed in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7002	I thank Mr. Žigić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Niko, well, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7003	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I apologize for the late announcement, but it came about my dilemma, whether in any way to discuss this conclusion, which is called the Conclusion on determining the criteria for professionalising MPs. I am in a dilemma whether the title is good and whether we are essentially discussing only the conditions under which one of the MPs will have a salary or discuss the criteria that MPs will be professional representatives, how professionally they will treat the country's citizens, institutions, etc. I think, however, it would be more correct to call this conclusion a conclusion on the rights of pay representatives and other cash receipts and other receipts, as we will call it. Because in order to call it the conclusion of the criteria for professionalization, 38 would have to create both the ambience and the criteria that we can behave professionally. I did not appear particularly on the agenda points that preceded this agenda point, but I was under the impression of those points and one of them in which the law on criminal proceedings has 452 articles and we went very professionally to adopt it to go in a reduced procedure. I'm not sure I know the good composition of all the professional orientations of all the MPs, but here I'm sure in advance that in this House of Representatives not all doctors are rights, and I'm guessing we won't limit that in this House of Representatives only the doctors of law can represent the citizens. I assume that this home and other homes in this country will be open to all citizens of this country, who have the wishes and independence and support of the electoral body to represent them in representative, or representative bodies. I'm sure, and not wanting to hurt anyone, that even the biggest professionals in the short process can't chew the law out of 452 articles. If we add this to the next one that has 250 and something, it's about 700 articles, I don't know how many pages, I haven't been able to count, and I'm not sure we're going to be able to behave professionally, if we're discussing something that the representatives didn't get to the session, they didn't get the material. When we talk about the rise of this home, when we talk about professionalising MPs, let's first and foremost respect ourselves, if we expect anyone else in this country and outside of this country to respect us. We can't expect him to respect us when we don't respect ourselves. We can't expect it to be lightly accepted, so regardless of the fact. That it's the right of an advocate to have materials, before he even gives us a professional hand, no matter how professionally we discuss it, we can't expect to be professionals and we can't expect entities that give us alimony to give us more alimony, because probably when they see us working, they think this is too much. If we continue with this practice, that all the laws, and so far I will remind you, if I remember correctly, this is the sixth session of this House of Representatives, and all the proposals, all the decisions, all the laws were either Article 104 or Article 105. If we continue like this, neglecting the fact that another home is not yet in the form of a foundation and it exists, I'm not sure how much it makes sense for us to professionalize anyone here, and I'm not sure how justified it is that anyone here has any income. If we're going to work like this, because the laws that, here, we're not today, or we're going to see how the College will agree on it, we find that they're going according to a reduced procedure, are the laws of gentlemen, if I know this matter well, which restricts the rights of the citizens of this country, the criminal law and the law of criminal proceedings are laws, which are mainly because of that. I'm not sure it's a good idea for us to be easy to play with the rights and freedoms of citizens in this country and to make it easy for everyone who comes here and what someone offers us, if we want to take responsibility, if we want to be professionals, and I'm going to stand up for it and I'm also on the Constitutional and Legal Commission to rush to pass a law on the rights and duties of MPs, not to regulate the rights and responsibilities of the representatives, even if this is the home. I think it is high time that this House, that this parliamentary assembly has a law that will define the rights and duties of MPs and that I haven't discussed this issue before, and I was in a position to be able to work professionally in the next period, because we are uncertain and when we have the Council of Ministers and when we have it, I'm not sure if we're going to be able to work, or whether the Council of Ministers will be able to work, because no one knows what the Ministers' Council is going to do yet, because we have a new law on the Council of Ministers and still no one knows what the law on ministries will define the work of that Council of Ministers. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7004	Just the theme of Niko, just the darkness. That's the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7005	The subject is the professionalization of MPs, and I may have expanded a little bit, I'm talking about the professionalization of this home. So I'm talking about us in this home being more professionally and responsible for the tasks we've taken, and then I think we're going to have the full right of opportunity and the right to ask that we have the status that belongs to all those who are responsible for their tasks. At this point, I will support this conclusion as a temporary measure, but also with the Commission's conclusion that the procedure for the adoption of the law on the rights and responsibilities of MPs is a matter of urgency, but also, since I haven't used the opportunity before, here's a way through this, because it's conditional on our work by quickly finding a way to get the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry Act into this parliament, because we won't be able to work if the Council of Ministers can't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7006	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. So here we have a proposal for a conclusion from the College and we have commission interventions. The Commission's intervention is, in fact, essential intervention concerns this point 2. of this word – 'depending on the resources available in the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget' are deleted. Watch this. I personally think that it should be possible for all MPs of this House to be professional workers or professional MPs here in the Parliamentary Assembly, because first of all, it is not a large number, because our parliament totals 57 people. So that's on one side. And on the other hand, there is a Law on conflict of interest that prevents practically numerous activities for MPs, and on the third hand, it is quite certain that greater activity will be needed in the coming period. We have been sitting here for the last 2-3 weeks practically a week, and each of the MPs or a member of a committee or a member of two commissions or a president of a commission, either in this capacity or in that capacity. I don't want to restrict the rights of MPs to professionalization. After all, the principle was also in force in the previous assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and in earlier meetings. But on the other hand, you have to understand that the budget is determined as they are determined and no one will be able to break the budget. There won't be a budget breach here, budget overruns. We will do an analysis of the use of the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly in last year's meeting for last year, for the previous year, but we will also do so when this year is up for this year and for all the years to come. It will not therefore be possible to exceed the budget provided for. Because I just don't know where to get those funds. So I suggest that we adopt this conclusion proposed by the College, so proposed by the College. In my view, therefore, this provision must stand here - taking care of the resources available to the budget, but it must also be respected that 40 of this House has been determined that all MPs, regardless of their capacity, are entitled and able to be professional Members of this House. That's why I'm proposing, so I suggest we make a statement on this conclusion. This conclusion was made by the College. He's actually been seen by the professional service that's been down to this problem, and I think he's the result of everything we could do right now. Mr. Žigić, you asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7007	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be, this home needs to Decidently state what it wants to be. If it's to be all professional MPs, to have a chance to be professional MPs, it should say, not to switch to whether the will of the administrative commission in which I'm playing the case, or your will as president, to decide your fate, this one can, this one can't. I'm basically so that everyone can, if one can, the other can. To be a decadent conclusion to the House, not to be left at the will of the board members to vote, to decide the fates of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7008	Hold on a second. Take it easy. Stop for me to finish. Wait, wait, wait. Who picks up everything for a word to see? Who picks up everything for a word? Avdić you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7009	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think we can reconcile this situation that has arisen, and this is an unimpaired right to enable the House of Representatives to have the right to professionalise their functions. So that's attitude 2 and to delete these words as proposed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. With what the chairman justifiably indicates and what is a dramatic social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are on the verge of social rebellion, working spring, etc. I propose in point 7 of this conclusion where it writes – the amount of wages and other receipts in accordance with this conclusion shall be determined by the Administrative Commission at home in accordance with the budget available to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Nothing more. And by doing so, we simply brought the amount of income into co-ordination with the resources available to the budget, and that's quite correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7010	Thank you. The deputy minister asked for a word, and then you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7011	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs. In our best interest to help create such documents that are really temporary and should be viewed as temporary, we suggest the following. The planning phase and the execution phase should be distinguished. In the phase of funding planning, there can be no limit to the right of MPs to be professionalised if they so wish. 41 However, when we do this stage of planning that must be based practically on the wishes of MPs and there is now a problem that we could not be precise in this budget, because we did not know how many people would be practically professionalised. So now, at this stage, if a total number of MPs are clearly dimensioned to enter the professionalisation of this information, then the funds are planned. So the limits in planning cannot be, because this would deny the right of MPs, but in the implementation of the budget when decisions are made and when the budget is made, it must be proportionately available and there is that reconciliation that needs to be made to say in this concept of decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7012	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Zorić Vinko asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7013	I welcome the chairman, the College and all my fellow MPs. It really bothers me with the demagogue story and the talk of emptying or courting the public of my colleague Avdić and some other colleagues. When someone talks about how we MPs should be modest, it looks like a public story to me that all the people in power have an alternative. I think we're very little paid for the work we're doing. In fact, we put our name on the drum so that someone would break our posters, someone would draw us a mustache, someone would take our eyes off our pre-election posters, etc. and finally not to pass or pass. There are 57 of us, as the chairman says, and now we're talking about adding if there's funds we're going to have receipts. If there's any need to talk to the public, here's what I'm saying. Let's all be gone for a year. But that's not it. No parliament in the world has worked for free, and I have been here since I was 96 in Parliament, and I have been before. We've really been paid below all costs. Is that in the systematization of the Bureau or any ministry that it says that if they get the funds, they'll get paid. This is about the rights of MPs, and here I am, and my colleague Žigić is a member of this administrative commission, and I will be here, if the public conveys to the public, saying that I will advocate on this commission that our incomes, no matter how many professionals are increased. To be increased. I'm not going to be a colleague, I'm sorry, I don't know his name, next to Žigić is sitting there, I won't tell if there's any funds, if this or that. I think our salaries are low and they need to be increased. To allow everyone to be a professional representative is desirable and I think that this conclusion should be adopted today as proposed by the Commission, and that the law should be adopted as soon as possible on the rights and duties of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7014	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Živković has a word. Have Mr. Bešlagić prepare, then Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7015	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, respecting the fact that this House has decided to work on committees and transfer its focus to the commission, I suggest the following. By amendment, we should vote in favour of the report from point to point of the Commission's report, and then by those points adopted here, to draw a new conclusion on the setting of criteria and then to vote on that conclusion. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7016	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go. Let Mrs. Palavrić prepare herself. But please give us a moment to bring this debate to an end. We'll make a statement anyway. He can't do anything without saying he's home, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7017	I have to say I'm confused. I don't even know why this proposal came to the conclusion of establishing the criteria for professionalization. That's what I'm saying for a number of reasons. Madam MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've all received a questionnaire last time, which you need to fill out. I beg you, can you raise your hand who filled out the questionnaire, which in other words means he's the one who wants to be professionalized. The second thing, so the incompatibility of interest is still one that brings a large number of MPs here to the dilemma of what they will do. Whether he's going to be an MP, or he's going to stay there to work. That's why I think this is premature in this regard until we get a statement to the first how many professionalized MPs will be. From that part, then we will come to the elements of the amount of funds needed for theirs with Zoric's note, I absolutely agree that those who professionalise should have the maximum salary. The rest of the MPs who are not professionalised will have those salaries under his jurisdiction under that regulation. Only then can we talk about the seriousness of this House. And a third thing. Don't forget that we have to do this, because last time we passed the Budget Law as a provisional budget law of 60 days, we said that we would rebalance where we are going to put this parliament in a position to show both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and everyone that this Parliament is deciding, not that they decide on this Parliament. That is why I believe that this question, in my opinion, following these discussions and discussions, I absolutely do not know why it has come, because we do not have the basic criteria by which we could define the amount of funds that must be provided for regular parliamentarians and those parliamentarians who will be like amateurs. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7018	Mrs. Palavrić has a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7019	It's almost done for nothing, but I really need to react once again to all those who say that our professionalization should be dependent on available resources. The number of all other officials in this country has been established by law. The constitution has established the number of Members of Parliament and I do not want my receipt or my right to professionalisation to depend on the resources available. Gentlemen, my right is guaranteed by the Constitution, and I want to be professionalized, and if there are no funds missing both the Council of Ministers and all of us and we will all have that month's lower salary by 1% the same way that pensions are shared as they are collected. So by the same principle, we'll be paid. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7020	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please, nice. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. It's a closed debate. May I have your attention, please? Please, nice. We have a proposal from the College, therefore, a proposal for a conclusion on the setting of criteria for the professionalisation of MPs. We have a position, the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which requires certain repairs in this text of the proposal for a conclusion. This is not a law so that we can consider the Constitutional and Legal Commission's position as an amendment. That is why we will declare the positions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as amendments to this conclusion, and then we will move on to a statement on the text of the conclusion itself. Please, nice. There are, we're going from remark to remark. So this is how the Constitutional-Law Commission proposes that the words 'confirmed by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the laws and the Rules of Procedure of the House' be added at the end of Article 1. Who is it to correct Article 1 as suggested by the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that then this first intervention of the Constitutional and Legal Commission becomes an integral part of this text. Then, the second intervention of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in Article 2 behind the word 'in Dom' put an end to and erase the words 'depending on the available funds in the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina'. Who's that? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Tell me the results. It was unanimous before, that's why I didn't. And now. Thirty-two for, uh, one against, uh, abstention-no. So most of the votes adopted and this intervention. As far as I can tell, the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is concerned, these are the interventions that are proposed on this. These are other suggestions. Okay. Please be nice, for point four, special. Please. ___________ [[speaks from place]] It's not like that, Nikola. It's not like that. Let's go with the amendments. Take it easy. So I explained it. You are proposing a conclusion by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I heard you doing business. You don't have to. Please. Just a little attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7022	Ladies and gentlemen here seems to be in need just to have the presidents of the committee agree with the chairman. I have a report from a commission called the Report on the Conclusions Proposal and laying down criteria on the professionalisation of MPs. So this is a comprehensive report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I agree with this report as a whole. But I'm against the fact that someone in the break, the hallway, remember that one or another conclusion might not be a good one. Let's take the Constitutional and Legal Commission's work seriously once. I'm all for these conclusions, so I think they're good. And I think we could deny it by voting to accept the Constitutional and Legal Commission report and finish the story in a short time. So it seems illogical to me, forgive us for accepting part of the report, not accepting part of it, and then bringing the Constitutional and Legal Commission into something more difficult at the next sessions. So it's not my goal to get into any kind of distraction, it's to adopt a report, and then we have a decision or a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7023	Nikola, I thank you for your intervention, but I'd really like you to follow up on what's going on here in the O.R. I, of course, reject your claims that it's enough here for the president of the committee to agree with the chairman, because they don't really stand. I try to make sure all MPs have the opportunity to say what they think. But I'm also asking you all to follow what's going on and what who's talking here in the House. I'll just repeat, before I engage in the voting procedure on this matter nicely I've said this we have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, this is not the law. And the Constitutional and Legal Commission report is not considered an amendment to the text. This is one new proposal, is that how we're going to declare our amendment. And then we started to declare the amendment, and that's all I said, and that's how we did it, and I know where we left off and we'll keep going. So there's no confusion in what I've done here so far. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7024	So, I thank my fellow Špirić for thinking about this report and his suggestions. However, I was made very clear to me. In the report Legislative-legislative, pardon the Constitutional and Legal Committee is in point 1 and 2 to intervene in the text Proposal for a conclusion that we received from the College. And here we see it's also supported. When it comes to point 3 or point 3 of the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, the Constitutional and Legal Commission had the knowledge that, on the basis of not only the conclusion of this species so far applied, but also other acts on the basis of which it decides on its membership, that I should use the word of MPs, including the chair of clubs, or club presidents, in different ways treat them. Therefore, by not touching this conclusion, the Constitutional and Legal Committee has made this suggestion that, on the basis of the rules already applied by the Administrative Commission on club president's competence, the rules applicable to it. We therefore had no need to conclude or propose amendments to this conclusion that we are deciding today. That's why we used this form. 45 The same applies when it comes to a point, i.e. the conclusion under number 4. We, and in order to avoid this kind of thing under quotes of bid, are now free to interpret it at the beginning of each term, in fact, we propose that this issue be resolved by law and therefore we suggest that this is a special conclusion of this house and it is therefore not an intervention to the proposal for a conclusion that we are discussing today, but rather a conclusion on the suggestion of a special conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7025	Of course. I thank Mr. Ćeman. So things are completely clear. We continue with the voting procedure. So we have come to the conclusion of two proposed interventions by the Intangible Legal Commission on this text. They have become an integral part of the text of the conclusions under points 1 and 2 and I propose that we now declare the wording of the conclusions with these interventions involved. Who's to conclude, the proposal is actually the conclusion of setting criteria for integrated interventions? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Okay. You've got suggestions included in this. I find that with 37 votes, out of 37 votes, MPs who voted 34 were in favour, held three. May I have your attention and that we have adopted this conclusion on the setting of criteria for these interventions. We move on to the Constitutional and Legal Committee's proposal concerning point 3 and point 4 of the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report as a special conclusion to be, that what is written in point 3 and point 4. Constitutional and Legal Commissions. Who's in favor of that particular conclusion? No, no, this is the conclusion for all three points, for both points. Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Tell me the results. Are we gonna take a break now? Please. Of course. Of the 37 MPs, 35 voted in favour, against being 1, abstention 1. So I find that we have adopted this conclusion, a special conclusion that contains points 3 and 4 of the Constitutional and Legal Commission reports. Now, please, it's half past four. Shall we take a break and ask? All right, well, let's do this point and then we'll consider the possibility. Okay. We're moving to the next item of the Ad agenda. 8. Proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of parliamentary procedure under the proposed laws and other acts referred to in the previous call You have received the proposal for a conclusion. Its essence, therefore, is that it does not stop with the procedure, that it does not repeat the procedure in the House, that this home works on the principle of continuity, regardless of its personal composition and this conclusion reflects 46 such reflections, and that is, by my judgment and by the court of my colleagues in the College, the only possible way of thinking. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion you've received. Mr. Jovanović Miloš, then Mr. Špirić Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7026	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me to be writing in Article 81 of our Rules of Procedure who has the right to propose laws, so these are MPs, Council of Ministers, Presidency, and I think of the committee and the House of Peoples. Reading these conclusions, it seems to me that we are favouring some other institutions in relation to us MPs again, so here it is suggested in this first conclusion that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Councils of Ministers and the House of Peoples, means that those laws that are in the process of continuing mean where it stands in the previous assembly, and in the MPs that it is given to clubs, new Members' clubs and that they propose these laws. So mine is a concrete suggestion to even this out. So we have a new presidency, so we don't stop the procedure, but the new presidency, so what the Bureau has proposed in the previous session now, if it considers it in the same text in the same form, should it propose a new presidency or a new ministerial council. All right, there's no home for the people, as there is for the MPs. So I suggest that it be the same for all of these categories that are authorized to propose laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7027	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7028	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, I wish I could sometimes understand the lawyers, but really here I am trying to read this conclusion. Whatever I read, I get into a situation where something's wrong. Now I'm going to read this to you - in order to continue continuity. A general question is raised here why have elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina been held in the first place? I have the impression that the international community just got tired of working with the previous authorities and allowed the players to change at the same job, based on the same rules and the same legal projects. ... the one we didn't get along with. What is this new thing promised to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Why are we saving future ministers' advice to sit tight for 24 hours and work, to see legal projects and say – these are legal projects that are on the line of reform. We propose them immediately into parliamentary procedure. What do we want to conclude? Here it is said, listen to this conclusion, says – the parliamentary procedure for the draft laws whose MPs from the previous assembly, which are not in this assembly of the House of Representatives, cannot be continued since the laws do not have an authorised proponent in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. They're headed for the benches, etc. Does this mean that on behalf of the Council of Ministers, only those ministers who have entered Parliament can propose? The same is the mandate for Members of Parliament, ministers and members of the Presidency. How do you pull the parallel here? There is no authorising officer, and here there is unless a new council of ministers, or an election 47-chosen council has taken that act and offered it to us. So we have to bring it to the same level and there is Mr. Jovanović absolutely right. Like there's no old MP, but there's no old minister or old member of the presidency. What do we do now? But that's why it means that those who come now, who are promised to the people, to the citizens of the inventory, better tomorrow, they're going to sit down so finely say that we have 50 legal projects, 10, 13, 5 doesn't matter. They are the most pressing reforms and are agreed by the international community. We take it or we do it or we don't do it at all. But by selecting the council of ministers, gentlemen, we have authorized motions for that job concerning the Council of Ministers. The Bureau is for the presidency. Even delegates can, or MPs, get a little bit of trapped in materials and say – this legislative project will propose a group of MPs, because it is good, because it is on the line of reform, etc. And I'm afraid with this conclusion we want all of this on the Horux system to push, so we'll see what happens. But I'm so that we all do our job in accordance with the Regulation. I think this is for me, this is for me a conclusion that is contradictory. And I'm not this way to regulate that conclusion. I'm so that everyone does their job in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules. The council of ministers we choose can say nicely if we see where this council of ministers is, these legal projects we now include in the procedure on behalf of us. The presidency's fine. I don't know what we're trying to figure out. So the conclusion is not clear to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7029	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and you can also on your behalf, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7030	My colleagues and colleagues will, however, first, because I am an authorised rapporteur from the Constitutional and Legal Commission to speak in this capacity, and then I would ask for one time for my right as an MP to say something on this subject. So, as far as the Constitutional and Legal Committee's report is concerned, with a finding and a call to what you might have seen in article 137. The Rules of Procedure to which she has called, also called the Proposer, i.e. A colleague of this home, and in a situation where a particular question is not settled by the Rules of Procedure, a special conclusion can be drawn. We have therefore assessed on the Constitutional and Legal Committee that this may be and is a situation that needs to be further regulated by a special conclusion. And at least from that point of view shouldn't be slow. Of course, the second thing is whether the approach that has been made and the proposer of this conclusion, so if you want the Constitutional and Legal Commission is also acceptable in all things and whether this substance that is now taking the matter that is being edited by the Rules of Procedure should be edited in one way or another, whether it has its own political, legal experience or any other justification. So with the required number of votes, the Commission supported this proposal with reasons, as you have seen, that because of the need for continuity, based on the continuity of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this conclusion reflects the principle of efficiency and economics, it is considered an acceptable solution. And so in this place, I end up reporting as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. 48 If, then, now as a member of this House, I can say my one opinion, which, of course, will not differ from this, because I have agreed to this in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, just to mention a few things. So the first is that I agree that this is business matter and that it needs to be arranged with an additional conclusion as proposed. Should this issue be resolved directly and resolved directly in addition to the Rules of Procedure of this House, it may be a question for someone, not a question for me? The answer is yes. As far as I know, some things have actually been done recently to build up the Rules of Procedure. I was bound to say this, I had the opportunity in another parliamentary assembly, so in the entity hearing opinions expert on this topic where there were indeed positions competent, professional to make proposals that were not, whose procedure was not completed during the duration of a gas mandate or as some people said under quotes are dying. Nothing stands in our way to make good suggestions, and indeed based on the continuity of the institutions, we accept this one at home and consider them. That's why I'm in favour, and I don't think they should be considered dead, or previously identified proposals. It's like a picture. The reasons are efficiency, economics, etc. I don't think this conclusion is designed to be contradictory for the simple reason, though, my colleague Špirić one continuity of the organs, and the other MPs as a person. For example, I was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina 3 years ago, and I proposed one law, then I was in the House of Peoples, who then also interpretedly lost the promoter, because I resigned for some reason. It doesn't matter. I couldn't hold my mandate until the end. No one ever talked about that law again. Therefore, it is a very correct proposal, a lucid proposal, in the extreme case of the College, that the proposals of our colleagues from the last call, which for any reason did not enter into the current composition of this home, should be strengthened, because they are ultimately probably good proposals. That's why it makes sense for one of the clubs, one of the clubs, or someone inside those clubs to accept those suggestions and strengthen in the further procedure. I do not, however, think, although it can be further argued that these are exactly the same things, although in principle the really authorised proposer should be equal, regardless of whether it is the MP, the Council of Ministers or anyone else who may appear as the legislator of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7031	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Is there? Mr. Živković Milorad. Here you go. Have the secretary warn those who are in the lobby that they're either going out of the living room or shut up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7032	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't see any big problem with this agenda point. In fact, I believe that one good and logical solution is that the College of this House and all the projects that are in the process and for objective reasons could not come here foresee the work plan of this assembly. And there's no need for us now with some conclusions to choose to talk about continuity, this, that. You suggest gentlemen from the College all these legal projects, and this home will have an operational work plan to accept or not accept. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7033	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Kunić, Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7034	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I must say, take this opportunity and say for that article 105. Obviously, there is no difference between general and special procedure. I believe the emergency procedure is necessary and should be returned to the general procedure. So I don't accept the interpretation that was at the House of Representatives, and I think it's wrong. It's a special procedure, it's going back to a general riot, and it has to go through all the procedure again. As far as this report is concerned, I also consider as my colleague Živković that there is no need for a conclusion to give authority for someone to propose. Be careful, the authority can only be delegated by law, not by conclusion. You cannot, in conclusion, delegate any authority. In the nature of things, the new council of ministers has the authority and has to review things. So I ask you that the new council of ministers will go, sit here and give us some legal project from the previous council of ministers. I'm sure he'll review that law and propose it. And what's normal. And it would be abnormal to go outside his frame. So there's no need here for. And other issues where MPs appeared as proposings, it is easy to resolve through a club of MPs or MPs individually. Therefore, there is no need to draw such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7035	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović asked for a word. I'd only beg for a moment. Give us concrete suggestions, then let's go with the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7036	I thank the chairman. I have found in the materials that all MPs have received two draft laws amending and supplementing the laws on the transposition of the system regulator and operator. The proposal is one of the MPs from the previous call and the other is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, also proposed by two MPs from the previous call. I just want to draw attention, which may be educationally possible for the adoption of laws and future work in order to improve the work and this Parliament that if these amendments were passed, these two amendments, so these two laws, would be the following. The existing tariff would not be harmonised in accordance with European rules, and the second would jump out of the VTO rules or slow down the complete process of approximation, i.e. negotiations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the VTO. And secondly, if the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transfer or Electricity were to be adopted, this law would disrupt the already agreed structure of all the institutions relating to the energy sector in the reconstruction of therefore market electricity at the state and entity level, we were already warned by 50 sides and some Bosnian Herzegovic institutions and also by representatives of the international community. For this reason, I propose this: that all the draft laws that come from the MPs, so both in the previous meeting and in this meeting, be addressed to the Council of Ministers for Statement. So that this Parliament does not declare itself while the Council of Ministers does not hold its position, i.e. the resolution ministries, so that we do not get the position of being on one side of the reform course, and on the other hand to jump out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7037	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7038	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that is on the agenda today, she happened to be the problem we discussed at that two-day seminar here and all sorts of opinions. Here's what I see now. I think every speaker who came out was one suggestion that had logic in me and what you might say could be taken as a right. It's got to be cut somewhere. I know, at least that's when we were informed that at some level from the initiative to the final alignment, it's going from 25 to 27 laws, which are on which level they knock on our door, and they're going to come today, tomorrow, that we finally verify them, change them, bring them or don't bring them. Since there were different opinions then, whether to make a cut and return everything to a zero position, it means starting with a proposal that someone will start as a really start-up initiative. Since our predecessors have put forth a lot of effort, there has been a lot of work being done and there has been this in the back door, perhaps in the last reading, etc. They're not adopted, it'd be a shame, if they're high-quality laws that they're going back to zero and they're going from there. Then we'll do ourselves a bear favor to waste time and disrespect the work of our predecessors. But at the same time, it's always in my head that Špirićev's that there may be something in those laws that would change me, because they're not 100% the same people with the same ideas and the same promises they made, but at the same time we have the promises and obligations of this country under these laws, and they're waiting to come to life. I therefore propose that all law enforcement and other acts that have passed the legislative, or level of commissions return only to the commissions that they review it and that they start and come to this level from the commission level. I think that would shorten at least part of the way of those laws that were only in the initiative, etc. And they haven't even gotten to the commission yet, and they're going with the commission to speed up the process, so by Article 104, we're going to have to review them and bring them back to life, and we're going to discuss them here. I think this would be the most practical proposal, and that's why I propose it to this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7039	Thank you. Mr. Zorić Vinko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7040	I'd just like to ask here briefly, have the members of the College kept an account of this, if we accept this conclusion, does this oblige the House of Peoples to make this 51 a valid proposal for them as well? If it isn't then I think we should agree to this college and the one that doesn't need to talk about it at all today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7041	I thank Mr. Zorić. This home has its own Rules of Procedure, Vinko, just so you know, we want to settle the matter of the procedures on the laws that were in this home. The people's homes will do according to their rules of procedure what they think they should do. We think this is the only possible way, right? Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Palavrić Sead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7042	What I'm about to say is said by a vote. But I really don't see any reason for this kind of debate, because the College proposal has no alternative. She's just gone. For all institutions, continuity continues, and for the laws of the no longer present at home, an opportunity is given for their clubs or individual representatives to take over the laws immediately and proceed further to the procedure. And I'm just suggesting we approach the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7043	Thank you, Sead. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm putting a motion to conclude the College's vote? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? The results are as follows. This is how the services counted. 35 MPs are here. 19 is for – 6 against and 6 abstentions. Those are the results. The general majority exists, by entities we plead. Who's from the Federation for? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Write it down here. So, the results are as follows: 24 from the Federation of BiH – from Republika Srpska 2. So, there is no required majority of RS and the text goes on to agreeing to the College, the conclusion, is actually going to the alignment. I suggest we take a 30-minute break. Wait, I suggest. I'll put my proposal to a vote. I need a break for 30 minutes or 15 minutes. But some people say, I suggest we rest for 15 minutes, but continue exactly in 15 minutes. Just let the Secretariat know. We're moving to agenda nine. [[PAUZA]] Ad.9. The proposal for a conclusion strongly condemned by this home is a crime against the Anđelić family, as well as other crimes and attacks against returnees throughout BiH 52 This is a proposal presented by Mr Špirić and which we have classified as the 9th item of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who wants to talk? Mr. Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7044	Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, I am, in light of Mr Lozančić's proposal that within 10 days an extraordinary meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly's Representatives Council is scheduled to be held, dedicated to the security situation in BiH, the opinion that the Representative Council should accept one conclusion condemning this brutal murder and this, I would say, an unprecedented crime and seek responsibility at all levels of government in BiH and on what the Representative Council should be informed as far as 15 days can serve as good imports behind that session. I am not therefore, of course, aware of everything that has happened and what has been painful and earthquakeous for every normal man in BiH that we are now divorcing this conclusion in different ways. I'll read, of course, since I'm the proponent of this agenda point, the conclusion that I think you should look at this conclusion and not argue that others should affect its grooming. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's representative council strongly condemns the crime committed by the ferocious murder of the Anđelić family in Kostanica of Konjic Municipality and requires the launch and establishment of responsibilities on all levels of government, which the Parliamentary Assembly's representative council will be informed of within 15 days. I think that would be sufficient to conclude that all relevant factors at different levels of government take the level of activity that is within their jurisdiction and that the Parliamentary Assembly will then do part of the work in which it will be out of its jurisdiction because it will receive the Ministry of Security and will have the authority to influence the identification of different types of responsibilities for these and similar crimes, if, in any event, it is in BiH, and I would like this to be the last crime in the country in which we live.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7045	Okay, thanks. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7046	The crime that took place in Konjic is nothing less, nothing greater than the crimes committed and committed against the people who return to both the RS and the Federation. In this time to the crimes in Konjic, there has been a series of crimes and, just as a motive, better told us the case that happened in Konjic to condemn, not only the case in Konjic, but all the crimes that took place in BiH with the requirement to deliver this report to this Parliamentary Assembly, which will be a slagort for what Mr Špirić said. I'm talking to this data that, here's what I'm saying in Bosnia where, Dubica, the same crime happened. Please, we can't say that it's only a crime to kill a man, it's a crime to banish him from his hearth when he returned to that hearth. That's why I asked with respect for the victims that, after all, I would say crime. I would ask this parliament to take a stand against all the crimes committed so far in BiH. 53 Here in this time, ever since Parliament was established, I think that would be correct on our part and with this request that this should be a clagort for debate, which, behold, supported when debated at Parliament on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7047	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7048	And the Party for BiH MPs Club supports, with, of course, this conclusion that we will hold an extraordinary and special session, but we suggest that it would be good today to indicate which segments of these reports we should have as a basis for discussion in the overall political and security situation that there is. Do you just, what it means just, whether to concentrate on these outrageous crimes that are happening against people, lives, etc. or some other segments that are happening in BiH, such as the occurrence of budget damage, money laundering, as this directly affects the security situation and makes the situation of the state safe, including these illicit arms deliveries, reports, etc., related to the affairs that have shaken BiH. Therefore, we should agree on what is the fact that this report, which is the basis to be discussed for this special session on the political and security situation. We suggest that this report includes these segments that are spoken of here today, along with the money laundering segment, tax evasion and these illicit arms-related actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7049	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Palavrić Sead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7050	Let me, on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, support the conclusion of a conviction of violence against returnees, as extended by Mr Selim Bešlagić. So, which is, we thought culminated in the ferocious murder of the Anđelić family. However, which continues in this year as well. So, in this sense, today is just the conclusion, and when it comes to the report that we supported as representatives, which was initiated by Mr. Niko Lozančić. I don't think with the situation, with the security situation in which the returnees are in need of much interference. So we need a few parallel reports. One about the security situation of returnees, of sustainable return, of other things, of corruption, of money laundering about violence, of trafficking in women, of day etc. That's really something else. But I think the special accent is now on the returnee's safety. So, on behalf of the SDA Club, I support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7051	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers the word anymore and I conclude the debate and, here, given these different proposals, that is, they are not different proposals, they are all the same proposals. So now you have to add them up. I said at the beginning of the debate, so I don't think there are any MPs here or anyone in this room who won't condemn the crime committed against the Anđelić family as well as any other crimes that appear against returnees in BiH. I think that we should condemn this crime against the Anđelić family, but, of course, all 54 other crimes and attacks against returnees throughout BiH and ask for these reports that have been discussed so far, the most Špirić investigation, is that so, from the competent state authorities and that we ask for the necessary reports, which we need as Parliament, i.e. the House of Representatives. Given, of course, that we will discuss this overall issue at an extraordinary session of the House of Representatives, and in that context, I am presenting this conclusion that I have, therefore, presented it for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7052	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought there really wouldn't be any need to intervene. As an MP, I asked for a agenda item and defined the conclusion. I guess it makes sense to put that conclusion to the plea. Whether he gets most or not, it's a matter of MPs. I can only read it one more time if you haven't heard it, but I'm against it that in this unfortunate state, when there's a tragedy, we're looking for ways to cover everything from the death of a lamb, a raven to a living man. Give it once, so it's not like we want to now, I guess no one will, but if it's going to be an emergency session dedicated to a security situation, then don't forget anything that's happened that's making the security situation worse. Not today, just 12 days after a terrible crime to remember someone in the hallway. That's why he called for seriousness and moment and event. Thank you very much. Should I read the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7053	You don't have to. You read it once.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7054	I'm asking you to make a statement about the conclusion. If anyone wants to expand, I'm not against other conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7055	You can take your place. Please, Mr Špirić, the murder of Rabija Čaušević in Bosnia and Herzegovina is no divergence and it is a returnee and her life is as valuable as any other life in BiH, and in this context I was saying and I didn't want to tell you when you used the divorce term to say anything, but here's what I'm going to say. All right. You suggested the conclusion as you suggested. He went into a stenogram. There was also a proposal, an identical proposal by Mr. sel Bešlagić and Seade Palavrić, and I will put all the conclusions on the vote. I'm putting Mr. Špirić's proposal for a vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? 36 for – 1 abstention. So the conclusion was adopted. I put forward a proposal for Mr Bešlagić's conclusion, which was joined by Mrs Seada Palavrić and which I also pointed out in a certain way. Who's in? The only difference is that in my conclusion, namely Mr. Selim Bešlagić, Seada Palavrić, here I am in my conclusion, except for the crimes against the families of Anđelić 55, condemning all other crimes against returnees to BiH and attacks on returnees. This conclusion includes what we voted on from Mr Špirić's proposal and everything else. Who's in? Both of you, yes. We are voting on the conclusion of Mr Bešlagić, Seade Palavrić, whom I joined. Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that with 37 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we also adopted this conclusion. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.10. The motion for a resolution, submitted by MP Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija According to the poslovnik of Procedure, gospodin Lagumdžija has the right to address this parliament on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7056	Fellow chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, naturally I will not use my business rights, as I am told to speak for 20 minutes about this, because this resolution can speak for zero minutes. Everything is perfectly clear and can be talked about as long as there is life in man, so there is no need to limit myself in this way, but I am obliged to this time alone, because you have all received in writing a very clear and precise resolution, I can only conclude, too, that according to this same rules of procedure as I see they have read that I can talk about the next point for 20 minutes saying that amendments can be delivered to the promoter by, during the session. I have not received any amendments so far, and I thank my colleagues for that, as I would thank them for getting it, which suggests that, probably in one such resolution, there should be no dispute between us, because it contains nothing new, nothing this Parliament has adopted so far in this or that form. Let me remind you, we have accepted, by the admission to the Council of Europe, the truth in this House unanimously, the truth in the second term, but all the leaders of both entities and BiH participated in the appropriate post-opportunity conditions in which, right now, it is very clear and precise that what is being said here in this resolution. Also, the Stabilisation Agreement that is before us will contain even more detail, so to speak, the signs of what is standing here. Let me remind you, we from the European Commission, or from the European Union, received the so-called Roadmap a few years ago, which we have already forgotten because it has been found to be fully fulfilled, i.e. it has been largely fulfilled. One of the points in which the truth was measured is, exactly, what this resolution treats. So nothing new in front of us, practically, is being found. However, given that these days there are many active and intensive actions by individual international institutions, which deal with this problem and are already visible that in the next month – two days before us are some deadlines that are already in sight. Let me remind you of those who follow it know that in 31.03. is one of the dates when accounts will be filed throughout the region, in Croatia in BiH, Serbia-Montenegro, or Yugoslavia, when the United States and 56 of the European Union, then the International Court of The Hague, will carry out a certain audit, to remind you that it will see what happens to 25 people on warrants that have not yet been delivered to The Hag and who are being charged with this country. This can easily mean that the appropriate assistance that follows from these reform programmes that we all advocate will be questioned. So, today, we would do nothing else today, but send as Parliament an act of political will and show that, indeed, our oaths in reform, in the "Justice" document, so I can only say "Work and Justice", because the document "Work" directly depends on how many foreign investors see this country as a country of political stability and they will see directly as a country of political stability if the dark clouds from The Hague do not prevail over us in the way it is now. This would also be a message to the Council of Ministers in the New Assembly, Mr Terzić, Ivanic, Čolak, Mijatović, I am talking about people who should be led by the Ministry of Justice, Foreign Affairs, the Security of the Council of Ministers, that in a certain way, with a more light atmosphere, they accept themselves for the next session of Parliament, if we could say that there is a full consensus in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the things that are mentioned here and in the extreme case, and I am obliged to say, I think it would be very good to say, in the context of some statements that have been made in the last few days, that every crime, which should be brought very clearly to the knowledge, as the Parliamentary Assembly as Parliament, has, without regard to what crime is committed and in whose name and in which way, as we are in the recent part of the agenda, is said that every crime, which should be sanctioned by the institutions, as well as the last name, has been committed and the victim. Let me remind you, I'm '96. in the first session of the Post-Dayton Parliament, he proposed a law on co-operation with the Court of Justice in The Hague. It has been almost six years since I proposed this law, the truth then at the Earth Museum, and that law has been a reluctance unanimously in '96. '98. I tried again, it didn't work. In 2000 so far, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia passed the relevant law, and we are now practically, in addition to a constitutional obligation that was very clear and precisely defined in Dayton, in addition to the laws adopted by the Federation on co-operation with The Hague in '97. and Republika Srpska in 2001, assumptions were created that we say that there is full agreement between us that the BiH de facto process must be ended properly. When I said denanctions, I don't mean national parties or the national issue, but I think that fascism, which is, however, something that is important in these areas in some small form while little, while parliaments are fighting it is good. When parliaments do so, they act as if there is no end to being good. I believe that this parliament, a parliament that will give additional momentum in BiH's process of dedicating the word, and if we accept this as a political message, I believe that the next session of Parliament when we discuss the point we just adopted will be much, much simpler.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7057	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers their words, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7058	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, by the way a brief resolution, a little better for discussion or a lot of fear of debate. The problem that burdens Bosnia and Herzegovina is the exact issue of war crimes and war criminals and hence certain dissatisfaction with the top officials of The Hague tribunal, related to co-operation with The Hagom when it comes to the authorities of SR 57 Yugoslavia and Croatia, including BiH, hence the announcement of top officials who say they will visit Belgrade, Zagreb, Sarajevo and Banja Luka, and this should be a clear indicator to us in Parliament that we should take more seriously what was happening in BiH, only I am not sure whether there is still a willingness for a clear dialogue, that all the excuses should not be tried by false interpretation, distortion of history, and we cannot take individuals to have a personal sense of what was happening in this country and beyond, if they were at least living participants and the witnesses of what was happening. That's why I would like to, and that's why I said today that I should take advantage of the business opportunities for the point, this point of the agenda to see the light of day, but to me for a vote or for my personal position, relating to these and similar resolutions, I don't think it's going to be the last one, whether we have a list here or if we have the possibility, that we have as the most responsible people in BiH who want to talk openly or to talk about these problems, we have sealed and dropped indictments, that we know who this is being said that Karadžić and Mladić are not constantly making noises, noises of course under quotes, bans to talk about other crimes, or to keep other crimes, which were committed in BiH. A mother who lost a child, no matter what nation she belongs to, a sister who lost her brother, again, no matter what people she comes from, is the greatest criminal who knows the name and name she did it. The story of large and small criminals is the politicisation of war crimes that happened inevitably in BiH and, therefore, I will take advantage of, of course, the business opportunity and if my colleague Lagumdžija told him that no amendments had arrived to propose a short amendment and I would be willing to vote in this case for resolution, and he refers to point 2 which, once again, may be a problem of dispute, whether the resolution will pass or not, and I suggest that it reads: The BiH Council of Ministers commits itself to co-ordinate overall co-operation with... bearing in mind that the arrest of Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić but also Izetbegović and other suspects is the priority of all BiH authorities. The other text of the resolution, as far as I'm concerned, pleases. I beg you, therefore, this is the moment, so I said, seemingly short text, which will cause different debates, but this if you ask me is my sense of amendment. I didn't want to invite anyone to the polemics, or hurt anyone I didn't think of. We will all make our statement clear according to the text of this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7059	Mrs. Seada Palavrić asked for a word. Here you go. She has an intervention. Is it an intervention or is it a discussion? Intervention, that's what I figured out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7060	The first intervention is to present Mr Špirić, who puts in the same level Mr Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić, who are indictees of The Hague tribunal with Alija Izetbegović and is trying to call them all three suspects. So these three people can't even themselves up, if for nothing, because of the UN tribunal's stance. The second intervention, when I went out to the promoter, at 3rd point, he says all war criminals. In my opinion, the war criminal is who has been found to have committed a war crime, that the UN tribunal convicted him because he is a war criminal and all others are or accused of war crimes, so I think that from this parliament the document that goes, then at 3rd point, all war crimes indictees should be brought to justice. That's it. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7061	Ladies and gentlemen, I am, after all, ready to discuss and has no agenda on BiH which I do not want to participate in. But, please, I said it was right for each of us to carry a part of the feeling. Someone will be a criminal someone will be a hero of the people, someone will be a hero, but every nation is looking for its victims. It's a tragedy of this country. Everything that's been going on has brought us back hundreds of years, and we need to be aware of that. I'm asking you how it's possible, now I'm opening up the question again that the resolution doesn't have the names of the creators of the crime in Voluntary, and you know, we've been witnesses, I've lived in this town. There's no personality or man I can't look at with his forehead up, how it's possible that for a column of 18-year-olds, in Brchanska Malta they don't mention at least, here let's not know the name, but let's mention it. So do you think that with resolutions like this, we're going to chase around and get rid of some stuff? That's why I want to participate in every topic that's the problem of the state. And I'm not that we're putting on resolutions that we're either gonna hear about or we're not gonna get our strengths or we're gonna stick to each other. These aren't simple problems. I am so that, if we have the political will to talk about everything, until as long as one of their alleged national heroes declares a hero and ask others to declare criminals and for neither of them you have... therefore, the indictments and I would like to have sealed and sealed Haguees, so that I could namely say that I am not guessing. But it's my feeling, gentlemen, for the sake of the policy that's been done here or there, I don't dispute that people have the feeling that Srbin have committed crimes, that they have committed crimes, as others can't dispute. Well, if there weren't good people in this country, the question is, would anyone survive what's going on? Are all the representatives of the people, who have agreed to rule together, ready to perform their under quotes heroes before the Court of Justice. If they're not, don't make a circus. Do not hurt those who are tens of them; there are thousands who seek, and yet they do not know what is the matter with their children. Are we ready or not? I am ready to talk. But it's not enough if there's not a majority. We'll see if she's got it today. You don't have to, of course you're in a hurry. So, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7062	You had an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7063	Yes, intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7064	Wait a minute, Selima, Mr. Novaković answered the word, after which Mr. Selim Bešlagić, then Mr. Munib Jusufović, then Đurković Jelina and Ćeman Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7065	My fellow Members, I purposely address everyone as colleagues, not particularly as chairman and not as guests. I have thought for a long time about why this resolution is proposed, if everything has already been seen and accepted, as the pedestal has said, and if these days there are activities that we cannot influence here and will not accept, whether we accept this resolution or not. Then I was really thinking why do we need this resolution? Which is why the Proposer decided to extend the resolution to this step8. He's fully aware of what 59 said what I said before. So I draw a simple conclusion, that Mr. Lagumdžija has a sudden need for responsibility for what he hasn't done in the past two years to pass on to those who are coming and that's it. Someone liked it or didn't like it. The way it's trying isn't good and that's the problem. That's the problem with all of us here. Of course, in any case, I don't mean from this pay phone, on behalf of the Club and on my own behalf, means as an MP to protect any crime, and I'd beg that it's not understood when I say this. I hope that I will not be understood in this way, but I am also not ready and I do not think that the resolutions should take views on what is prescribed by law or international acts. I know when the Republika Srpska Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal was adopted by international community gentlemen, or international officials, that the law does not matter to them at all that they should not do with or without the law what is provided for by the international act. Since the law doesn't matter now and we care about the resolution so much. And right away, the Serbian Democratic Party gave its position on the issue in the National Assembly by voting for the Co-operation Act. For this reason, I do not think it is necessary to bring resolutions where there is a clear law or where the views of international institutions are absolutely clear. For this reason, and also from these recently several polemics it is clear that our proposal that the resolution goes to the committee had and how it makes sense. Namely, to open these questions here, to open up on the commission and define something that could be accepted here as a single oral resolution, not as a single story, which, unfortunately, would not have and will have nothing new as said by the promoter himself. It's exactly the same. Obviously, we haven't come across any support, that's why it's the result of what it is, that's why we're going into a debate that I'm afraid we're not going to get out of right now, and that's, believe me, a big problem for all of us. So those who have proposed and those who support and those who think that resolution can or can't solve it. That the resolution has been written in a manner and for a reason that I have already said, says Article 3 of the resolution, which is one of the most vague ways to define some issues, such as the question, let's say, support, or hiding behind the support of the people, etc. If this is the result of gentlemen of the High Representative's statement, shall we condemn the matter to the resolution? If we are to say so, we condemn the High Representative's statement or we plead to the High Representative's statement. I have not heard this finding anywhere until now from anyone officially or here in the past two years, nor have I heard in Republika Srpska from any official. Therefore, for these reasons, we are not to consider the resolution in this way. And that's why I think, I repeat, we've entered a completely wrong position by not accepting that the resolution is given to the commission. I hope it's not too late to get out of this whole thing, conditionally, under the supposed signs of getting out, or that it's still not too late for this resolution to have a result and not one policy that might seem to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7066	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. After that, I said Mr. Jusufović and you, Đurković, and then Mr. Ćeman. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7067	Since I was named by Mr Špirić, because I am Selim Bešlagić, head of the Tuzla municipality, which is in '92. The year successfully organised the defence of BiH and BiH citizens. I absolutely agree with him in one, that point 3 should be re-formed "all war crimes indictees". The moment I officially make a statement here, when selo Bešlagić and those who participated in Tuzla's defence are officially charged, I will be ready to go to every court and be in Republika Srpska, but that must be confirmed by The Hag. That's one. Two. I don't see here, at all, any way... to find Alija Izetbegović under point 2. He can be found under point 3 if the charges are brought, I agree with you, after all. Therefore, this resolution is clear and definitive, with one note. Right now, you are Mr. Predicator, I apologize for not remembering my last name at the moment, because I am under a certain obsession, namely the press, as you will, but just a statement from the High Representative, that Radovan Karadžić will be caught when the Serb people give up on him. I think this resolution needs the very people of Serbia and we don't need the Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7068	Thank you. Mr. Jusufović. What have you got? So you can't replicate Nikola on every discussion. Please, very briefly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7069	When I mentioned Brchanska Malta, I didn't mention Mr. Bešlagić. So, I didn't mention Mr. Bešlagić, but I said that maybe Tuzla successfully defended herself, or successfully defended herself, but the beginning and murder of 300 to 500 young boys is not Tuzla's defense, but the crime in Tuzla. Who committed the crime and whether or not it was likely some measuring organs will determine it. Now, in that sense, I just wanted to say, I didn't mention Mr. Bešlagić's name, and I don't know who was doing any work, but I do know that killing so many young guys who didn't blame or create a war, who were leaving the column that was killed in Tuzla's crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7070	Novakovic, is the replica the same? All right, well, then you get ready to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7071	I will rephrase briefly to Mr Bešlagić, since apparently he confirmed what I said was the result of the High Representative's statement. If so, then gentlemen, we will support a resolution condemning the High Representative's statement. If the High Representative wishes well to the Serbian people, let him apologize. If that's what you gentlemen say, but I doubt your honesty that's how it is and that's motive. That's the problem. So, no problem. Let's rephrase the resolution and we'll accept it if that's motive, and I repeat, that's what we wanted to have the commission do all that. Unfortunately, we didn't mean to. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7072	Mr. Bešlagić's reply to the replica and then, as far as I can track Jusufović Munib.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7073	I have to answer to Mr. Špirić. Mr. Špirić, the number of massacres in Brcanska Malta is moving about 100 to 120. The number you're pointing at should be looking for a difference and asking for a JNA on the Vukovar battlefield, because these are the guys that are just sending over the JNA to the Vukovar battlefield. So, I absolutely agree with you to open the process, a process that will prove exactly how many were killed, exactly to say, identify and simply bring that book to an end once and that all those who committed the crime, if the crime was committed, correspond. Therefore, I am not running away from it, because it is the only way that you and I will be able to walk across BiH together. It is a fact that I, as an MP in this House, advocate. So we are asking that every book be opened, not wanting, at all, that this parliament be stopped with work in BiH's progress, and that is why I think it may be necessary to open, perhaps not today, but that this debate should be opened and that it should be concluded that it is the judiciary's duty to work in BiH to prove and show what happened in BiH. Therefore, everyone who committed a war crime has to answer. If that's what we agree on, I don't see any reason for you and I to confrontation in these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7074	Okay. Mr. Jusufović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7075	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, there seems to be no question, which in a certain way cannot get some kind of political dimension and political attitude. At some other time, I wouldn't run away from these more analytical questions, so start by saying what Selim says about Tuzla this and that, but I'm afraid that fellow Špirić has skillfully mixed apples and pears, not that he doesn't know it, he did it on purpose, to enter emotions, later on with some of them, to report whether there is honesty, whether honesty, and what the motives of the applicant's application are, etc. These are all categories which are not relevant today. It seems to me that the most correct explanation is and, right now, the answer of fellow Špirić is this which is our colleague Sead, that's actually a legal answer. However, skillful inclusion in the category of indictees together with Karadžić and Mladić, suspected by some criteria, is absolutely legally incorrect. If we're going to go through some facts, then let's go to what's known, because in another case we're showing ourselves in the role of both the prosecutor and the judge, and we're saying the verdicts immediately. This is where I listen to those suspects, and the suspect. I belong to a category that I was sentenced to 15 years in White, without any evidence, simply gave me 15 years as a war criminal, because I was led by the Bosniak people in the defence of the area in Brcko. The right to tell you, I've never been interested in complaining or anything. Afterwards, that verdict was annulled after '96. years and they thought I should complain. I didn't consider that court relevant, nor did I want to complain and change anything, simply so, but I don't need to talk about it. There are now other institutions in progress. The relevance of some prime condition or qualifications that the Hague tribunal is and he said so. I would speak freely and loudly, if this is where Selim said at point 3 that he could possibly, or if Alija Izetbegović were to be found. Here I am talking, if you would be, but with such a qualification accused as to be found under point 2. Only it's incomparable to me. Okay, let's let it be both clean and internal, my inner sense but 62 doesn't even have a legal basis. I would very loudly and clearly ask and pronounce the name of Alija Izetbegović that he is accused, that all institutions and all authorities should deal with it, to arrest and surrender him, but I haven't heard from either of you from any of my colleagues in the order of the Serbian people, it's interesting that you may be making a big mistake that you here, however, individually defined and mentioned two names that are very clear, and in the end at that indictment, you are not a dead end, neither you nor the children cost five million dollars. You know what's on those charges. So that's not even a waste. However, they must not be prejudged to say whether they are guilty, they are accused by the Hague prosecutor, but have not yet been convicted. To the soul, I hope it will and should, that ultimately this guilt complex would be removed in a certain way from one nation, because it needs to be observed individually, not in general. And this is motive, so it's best to ask Mr. Lagumdžija his motive was to submit a resolution like this. I don't see anything controversial in it, but if you want to talk about motive, then the motive can be open, hidden, etc. It is possible that you too, who believe Mr Lagumdžija wanted to politicise something, but if we are talking about the text itself, it is possible that this point 3 is even seen from an opportunity and I suppose what a few said and should have made that a little clearer and now, here, it seems to me that colleague Novaković has added it. I took that as an amendment to this point of my third colleague, Novaković, that he thinks and that's what we can vote on. It seems to me that we'll meet here somewhere, that Mr. Eždaun, the High Representative with his statement as he did, if he did. That's what you told your colleague, Novaković. Therefore, there is already a certain way of here and supplementing, but really apples and pears mix, especially fellow Špirić knows it very well, because it is not naive, there is never naive stuff in it. But it seems to me that the elections are just over, so after all, I have no reason to think that maybe a month – two before the elections, come on and I would have been different. However, it really is now necessary to introduce legally relevant qualifications, not some emotion, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7076	Okay. It's Mrs. Đurković's turn. Let's get ready for Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7077	I belong to the less-informed. I must inform you that I do not have the documents "Work and Justice and Education". So I simply can't speak of these points competently or bring my own judgment, but from these conversations and speeches, which have been heard here, I can simply say, in my gut, let me say the political feeling, as far as I have two things. It's the first one I've acquired, not only on the basis of a follow-up so far from the press and events in BiH, but also on this session today, so let's say this Lozancic exhibit. So, as soon as a problem arises in the Federation, and even as a hot one, then it is immediately looked at by the RS and what is problematic there to pull it out as a red cloth and cover this problem, and since Karadžić and Mladić are always welcome with the red cloth, then we always cover the problem for them. And, secondly, especially in part three, the third point behind the support of the people, it's fierce, some reaction from Mr Lagumdžija, so I can't participate as a member of parliamentarians in the small war of Lagumdjia against Eždaun, and I won't do it. 63 Therefore, for all of these reasons, I have also defined my relationship with this resolution, and it was better that this went to the committee, so that we really argue there, to start, really, without this, let's challenge people's tensions, and we have our own, so I guess we have our own attitude towards what's been happening to us. Well, don't think, I guess if there wasn't a crime over the Serbian people, come on, please, but I won't be discussing it today, I wouldn't, because this, so I didn't get these papers first, and I don't know about justice and work and justice, and I don't know what they're for, especially the second point is important, I don't know, but here from this, my impressions, this was some kind of attitude. So, I suggest or go to the board so that this is all, we're pretty tired already, so that, it doesn't have to be delayed, it doesn't have to be removed from the agenda, so it's going to be nice to clear up to see what it is and to get me to read these documents and to be delivered to me in the meantime, that I can sort this out and then just finally say what's here by my understanding or, if you're going to vote today, I'm determined how I'm going to vote. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7078	Mr. Ćeman, let Mr. Muratović prepare Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7079	My colleagues and colleagues, our colleague, Mr Lagumdžija, has therefore proposed that this resolution be called in the text in the opening notes to Article 121. Rules of Procedure. There have been attempts to educate when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, and I will not educate, but I will only remind myself, and Article 121 in its first point of view says that the resolution can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems, etc. I don't want to read any more. I, therefore, understand this as an assessment of our colleague's need to take another turn in this matter, point out, draw attention and point out the importance and need of engagement both of these institutions and of all others which, in my court, regardless of what fellow Lagumdžija's intentions were, it is not disputed for me, because I believe that there is always a need over and over again to not only this home but other relevant institutions of BiH, its entities, etc. express their views on important issues. This is an undisputed issue, as efforts by both the International Court and certain relevant authorities in BiH and its entities are not always shown to be effective and should therefore be given, if you want political support. Of course, the question is, and I don't know now whether it's only his competence in the Rules of Procedure, but my colleague Lagumdžija will certainly, I expect to determine the amendments that have been heard. Some of the remarks my predecessors made, particularly Mrs Palavrić and Mr Jusufović, almost made a surplus of my address, because they pointed to the legal dimension of this issue, namely the legal dimension of some previously made amendments to this resolution and in the truth legal thinking, and let the legal profession be respected, although not all of them are top experts for the area and those who have previously completed some legal, legal schools. Namely, given that there were proposals that were in place of the alphabet in the proceedings before the International Court of Justice, which is that it can be required and used the qualifications of the accused, let us not enter, therefore, those categories which should not be contained in political documents, as is this resolution. That is, therefore, my comment on the amendment to point 2 that Mr Špirić said that I would not enter into any other necessary elaborates. 64 As far as point 3 is concerned, in truth, I find it quite correct and legally on a right-based remark and a suggestion to use war criminals instead of words, a better legal term, for example. Indictees of war crimes, etc., because even then, there would be no prejudication of what is right never to be ignored, which is that there is a difference between the defendant and the war criminal or the accused and at all for any crime and convicted. Of course, there were good scopes in further content and ambiguity, i.e. at least the possibility of a very extensive and vague understanding and interpretation of point 3. but here, I focused only on what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7080	Mr. Hasan Muratović and let Mr. Sead Avdić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7081	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe I will not contribute to the outcome of the vote on the resolution, but I would like to contribute to our work. I'm in a parliament in 1994 and later in an interview on television that I keep saying that a normal man can't. Therefore, only a fool can think that he will be able to stay on other people's property permanently and many have then debated behind me, thinking that I'm wrong, I think it's clear to everyone today that anyone who is on someone else's property, by applying what is now being done, will have to keep leaving other people's property and that everyone will come to their property. Today I want to tell you that I also think that no normal man can stand up to defend anything aimed at accused or suspected war criminals, and especially cannot if he opposes any idea of strengthening the effort to uhapsiti indicted war criminals Radovan Karadžić and Mladić. So it's not trust me, absolutely political. It can't be profitable. In fact, it's absolutely not for normal political opinion. So it's never too much to ask for the arrest of suspects and accused war crimes in front of justice. Since we are the new assembly of Parliament, it is good to make it clear that we are once again confirming our commitment and therefore I consider this motion for a resolution to be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7082	Mr. Avdić Sead and let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7083	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would also like to say a few words, and even during today's session, it simply went as this once, objectively, said, strengthening relations in the very House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, in practice, turning this parliament into a courtroom that is out of its minds. I would ask the chairman not to allow such a course of events and that, in that context, we behave fully. Also, to gain political profit at falsifying historical facts in order to make a political profit, and I don't even know how to prove to my voters that there are senseless moves and missed political investments. I will only say briefly what hurts me as a man and as, simply, what I must prove on behalf of the city of Tuzle that Brčanska Malta and the defense of Tuzle was a legitimate act of defense of the citizens of that city and in that context all other insinuations are historic forgeries etc. which means I'm pleading some Hague tribunal, which was established by 65 UN, which is the only measuring institution on this planet and which investigates, sanctions, prosecutes war crimes indictees in the former SFRY area, simply has BiH's trust. He has confidence and RS and has the confidence of the Federation of BiH, he has the confidence of the BiH state and, in that sense, we have proved it along the way and we have the confidence of the Hague tribunal, which means surely this resolution, I think, was partly spent on the aspect of its currentity. That words were slowly spent in this resolution. And the people, we think, are attempting attention, simply the UN tribunal of The Hague, the chief prosecutor of Ms. Karla Delponte, etc. We know what they're talking about, which means simply, I don't think there's anything, practically, controversial that could simply be done in order to devaluation or simply transfer and counterfeit and I don't even know what to do today. I think it is not bad to show this resolution that one degree of unity and adopt it in the text it is or, simply with the changes Mr Špirić or MP Špirić can have his suggestions or his observations. So, once again I plead that the only measuring institution, once again I plead that the only state-of-the-art institution that is legal and legitimate to say and to process and simply condemn it is the UN tribunal and in this context what the UN tribunal proves simply and which verdicts it makes, is objectively what it is asking for this resolution that Dr Lagumdžija proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7084	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7085	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, the most I've come up with is the reason to ask everyone together today, not to turn this resolution into a political elaborate of our recent past, and don't blame me for reminding us all of the solemn statement we gave on the 3.12 last year. At that time, we said that as representatives in this house, we would protect the Constitution, the Law and the laws of BiH and work in the interest of all BiH citizens. Starting with these concessions, I would like to stress that in this resolution I see nothing that would be directed against any BiH citizen. On the contrary, with the conclusion that there are entity laws on co-operation with the international UN war crimes tribunal, I would like to say that this resolution is going to call on all the competent authorities to step up their cooperation activities with the UN tribunal and, in that sense, I think we can support it because it is in the interest, to say, all of us. Because, right now, when the trial is over in The Hague, I think we're going to have far less discussion about what was going on in our close past here in BiH. For this reason, I suggest that if there is something that, for the sake of reason, can irritate any of us and with, let's say, not only political, but also emotional reasons, let us try to improve, possibly the text of this resolution, in terms of this first one that referred to Article 3 that it is, therefore, a suspect in war crimes and I would like to, I call on you to accept this resolution, because it is coming, I say in the interest of all BiH citizens. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7086	Mr. Živković and let Mr. Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7087	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say in a few sentences why I voted that this item of the agenda goes into commission procedure. Namely, the promoter called for Article 121. The Rules of Procedure, saying that the House can express its position on relevant political issues, social needs, problems etc., where I personally consider this political issue to be not a priority and that social problems in this country are much more important than this resolution that we have here today as a part of the agenda. I will also warn the SDP gentlemen of the European Parliament's Resolution on the European Commission's report, with the 28th Decidence in BiH. It encourages political parties in BiH to present their citizens with programmes to resolve the economic and social crisis in which their country is located, to refrain from polarising rhetoric and to seek to bridge ethnic divisions. Gentlemen of the SDP, this resolution is not what you do. On the other hand, we've already sworn an oath in this House. Article 2(2), Article 8. The constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which sets out the obligation to co-operate BiH authorities with the International Court for the former Yugoslavia. I, like all of you, took that oath and I stand behind it. On the other hand, in principle I'm against resolutions, I'm more into concrete and operational conclusions, so looking at the resolution by points I think that even two points are here, maybe even superfluous. In fact, point 2 is obliged by the Council of Ministers to co-ordinate overall co-operation with the International Court in The Hague, where they co-llude that we have offices in entities currently operating and that intensive work. The second thing is point three, where all war criminals must be brought to justice. No Niko has the right to seek protection or to hide behind the support of the people. Gentlemen, they have the right, or rather, to tell me in no way at all, and not by any resolution we can deny someone to ask the people for protection, to give or deny that protection. That is why my proposal is to ask the Office for Co-operation with The Hag at the entity level for the next period to report to the Council of Ministers and to this assembly. It is up to the College to decide when to put this as a point of Parliament's agenda, to hold a debate on it, to reach conclusions and set time limits and the executioners of these matters. I'm for one practical and pragmatic work of the resolution, and we can leave it to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7088	Mr. Belkić. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7089	Mr. Živković was in part, in a way, already saying that I wanted to talk. So I suggest that we go back to this paper list, so, to the content on this paper list and find answers to a series of these questions that have been asked and when it comes to the motives that are listed on this paper list, some kind of legal obligation of ours. It is mentioned here and the Constitution idt. And let's take a look at the contents of this resolution. I am the content of what this says here by abstracting what anyone has been saying here, citing different cases and different personal visions of things that have been happening in BiH, simply to concentrate on this paper list and to precisely say what is in this paper list that we or one of us disagree with. Mr. Živković, you have only made a mistake in the BiH state, there are liaison officers at the BiH presidency. There are liaison officers with The Hague tribunal, regardless of what exists in the RS office, etc. So there are three state liaison officers who communicate with The Hague tribunal as determined. So I wanted to draw your attention to the very text of the resolution and determine if there's anything that's controversial. As for the Party Club for BiH, we support this resolution and accept these corrections in the sense that the words of this accused are being inserted from the legal aspect that this resolution does not prejudge things but that those accused are saying, etc. So, at the shortest, let's focus on the contents of the resolution itself. So we support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7090	Okay. No one's answered their word again. Mr. Lagumdžija as a proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7091	Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for the helpful remarks and suggestions and, obviously, we have just continued one topic today, which unfortunately will not be completed. We all agree less that crime is a crime, but just as it is a crime in Costa Rica that we just did, which was a direct cause for the point is a symbol, which must act strongly and warningly. There are some crimes, some dots, some moments in the history of some people, some historical and some other circumstances that are in their works the same as any other, but they're a symbol of something. We all know that BiH's churches and mosques have been torn down more than normal, and none of them are normal to break down, but, however, Ferhadija or Plehan or Žito Žitomislići are a symbol in one way or another or another, not entering into how many such destructions are anywhere. The fact is, too, that today in BiH is created one atmosphere that must be worried about us and I have to say that a climate is created that in some way gives message to criminals or criminals, whether they are justly such that they can't be heroes, they need to be given a message that they can't be heroes in their people, just because they're hiding behind the people, that they will be persecuted and prosecuted and punished and everything else and such a message must be given to them. I am obliged to say, indeed, because several people asked why this resolution. We are the people who race here together with the High Representatives and leaders of the international community, to prove ourselves as major reformers in words, and a long time ago when reform will be allowed to be just a word. It will have to be shown by what we are doing and what our goal is to move towards reform. Here, too, this case and another 68 cases will show who is with whom in this parliament is in the majority and who is the parliamentary majority in the reform process and what is all this together. However, I am sure that regardless of how we end today, again I propose Mr. Chairman to be given a corresponding magnetogram from today's debate to the President of the Council of Ministers, because today there have been a lot of things that were good that he heard about the next session, but surely what we discussed today he must give an answer to at the next session of Parliament whatever we do with this resolution, what he thinks about everything and what his government, his council of ministers thinks about this. So you see these authorities today in BiH, this parliamentary majority around the world, I'm unlike the lady colleague who spoke, I'm well informed, and that's why I'm doing this. I'm not the head of some neighbouring state so I can say that I'm not well informed of this and that and that I'm so boastful or a man who doesn't interfere in his business in this country. I'm well informed, and that's why I'm doing this for the good of all of us. You see, the world is watching what we're doing. Believe me, from one of these resolutions, and anyone who doesn't read the papers, which he says in a way, is clear to him. We have to send a message to the world, and that's why I did this. I think that Parliament must show the political will, which speaks very clearly of things that everyone is asking themselves today. I have to tell you, you're right to say this to the international community. This is what we need, and if we don't see that we need this, then we have a problem. Whether it's a real form and whether this is a done deal is another question, but this is what we need. They'll come and go past us and leave us poor and poor, unless we realize this is the kind of thing we need. The world today thinks we're going backwards. The message of this House, I now as a man from the opposition, if I were to look at the tight side, I would be pleased to see this go to waste, but this is what we need, Mr. Novaković. What you're saying is that through the support of this single resolution, the subject that you're carrying objectively from, and this parlamentary majority has to show that the parliamentary majority has to show that the parliamentary majority who is willing to face this in a very mild way through this resolution. As for this little war that I've been mentioned here, I must say that at point three, everyone saw what they saw alone and what was, possibly, hurting him. I'll tell you, I feel like a poet who listened in class to kids who talk about what he wanted to say. I didn't want to say anything but what it says here. At point 3, when I think about it, you're really right there's a reason here for Mr. High Representative to take a look at this. If he or anyone thinks that the first indictee should wait until the people send him a telegram that needs to be picked up, then that representative of the international community who thinks so with me is in deep conflict. I mean, it's nothing controversial. Well, I've been in conflict with both their bosses when it comes to things like this and I'll always be in need of an interpreter of my views, but I really don't think this is my war with anyone. The only thing I wanted, I didn't think I was answering the question of motive. You know, I feel, here a few people asked me what my motive was. I feel like a man who was either a victim or in a better case a witness to a crime and then when they start chasing a criminal, they ask me what my motive is for me getting involved in it. I was both a witness and a victim and my only motive is that others don't happen to be witnesses and victims like I was and many of us here each in our own way. It's the only motive and nothing else. So, if I have that motive first, my motive is, as I believe, all of us, that what we swore was that we were behind it to be a normal country and that this never happens to anyone else that I never see myself as Dr. Nakaš ten years ago who opened me up several times with faith when I'm locked up I'm going to be alive. 69 So my motive is that neither Nakaš nor I find ourselves in other people's situations where we were in these places, no matter where they live and that is, believe me, working with one simple message, which is given here. So, I'm glad to hear that the High Representative's statement is condemned here, if he really did say it, but not to go into those details now, I would like to make it very clear and precise about the concrete amendments here, although the Rules of Procedure is not precisely defined, but I think it's kind of normal as a proposal to say a few things. At first I think point 2 Mr Špirić spoke of point 2 to insert in point 2 the name Alija Izetbegović, I do not accept this amendment for the reasons they are given here, because it is not the same cabonomic set of charges. Here is a taxonomic sequence of Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić as people on the chase, printed with an APB, and that at least is not controversial. However, I think that instead of the word "arrestment" here, some have spoken should be put "incarceration of the court in The Hague", because they may be able to apply themselves, so that they should not be put in place. The word arrest can be changed at point 2 by bringing the court to The Hague. Otherwise, at point 3, I fully agree, I accept the suggestions given here by Mrs. Palavrić, also from Mr. Živković, that all words of war crimes indictees are inserted, and then, I also appreciate Mr. Živković's observation that the words "seek for protection of the thread" are deleted because there is no right to hide behind the support, I will say what I mean by that. So, to insert the words of the war crimes indictees and to delete the request for protection at the end of the second row from below and the beginning of the second last row from one or two words, and to respect the remark and spirit of what Mr Špirić was saying was behind the word "crime" that reads: "which are asked of the ICTY by the Constitution of BiH Article 2 of point 8. So at point 2, there are two men with a name and a last name that we don't need to explain why their name and name. It is even unserious to lead a serious debate on this subject, but respecting what is said here, as we just said earlier, as point 2 says, is like the case of Kostanica, and point 3 is the condemnation of all others who happen here and therefore point 3 can be modified in a way that respects what fellow Špirić was saying. I would accept such amendments and if you agree with the chairman in spirit somehow, it does not say to the Rules of Procedure. You can now interpret yourself, I don't want to interfere with you, but I would appreciate that you have given me these amendments, and I would accept these as a consolidated text, which, therefore, reads, again, point 2 reads, "The Council of Ministers undertakes to co-ordinate overall co-operation with the ICTY, given that it is, and then writes bringing the Court to The Hague and then goes on all the way it goes." Point 3 would read: "All war crimes indictees, who are wanted by the ICTY under the Constitution of BiH, Article 2 point 8, must be brought to justice and no one has the right to seek protection nor, says no one has the right to hide behind the support of the people who were their greatest victim." If you have read that this refers to the controversy with the High Representative, I had no intention of doing so. That's what I said very clearly and precisely this morning. I put that out in the other place where it's being put out. I didn't want to abuse this pay phone, and it can be read this way, and here I was actually going to say something that we all keep repeating. It doesn't take any criminal or criminal to hide behind his own people, no matter what his name is and in what conditions, but every crime as a criminal and a victim must have a name and a last name and no one should hide behind his own people when he does something that is a crime, a crime or anything. And, I agree with all 70 of those that, unfortunately, we will not become a normal country, until we have enough power to transfer complete cases from The Hague to our courts, and that is why we return to the beginning of the story, and that is the real book of justice, and it needs institutions that we do not have yet, and I am sure that this debate will continue in a different, more quality way. I hope that today we will determine it and send a clear message. I hope that the message will be positive and that would do us a favor to the people who formed the parliamentary majority, because they would present them to the world of suspicion that they are. If you were to vote most of this resolution here, the world would really think that you are reformers who have a parliamentary majority and we are doing you a favor. So I'd like you to do it for the good of all of us together. I'm '96. He offered this law in 2002, and if not me, someone who stands in my shoes in 2006 will do this again, if necessary. I'm motim, therefore, my dear colleagues and colleagues, so that this doesn't happen to anyone what happened to us, and I know very well what it is, and I didn't happen to mention Dr. Nakaša.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7092	Mr. Niko Lozančić. This is after the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7093	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given the explanation of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's esteemed representative, I found the need to, here on behalf of the Club, address and comment on this resolution that has been offered to us. Let me ask all of you and Mr. Lagumdžija a few questions. Does it mean if we today declare this and all the other resolutions offered by Mr Lagumdžija that we will be declared beautiful, good, capable and reformists? The second thing, this is a very serious thing, which is because it's serious and the Constitution is defined. Does it mean that if we don't pass the resolution that the Constitution won't apply and that we will for everything listed in the Constitution as rights or obligations of the BiH institutions, we will bring resolutions and let's hold this one session and bring all resolutions, let's say, to count all articles and items of the BiH Constitution to say to the resolution that we will implement the Constitution. If we have to show that we are good, beautiful and willing to cooperate and that we can be partners, there are no problems, I am and so there are no dilemmas. I am, absolutely and resolutely, because all those accused of war crimes respond, without any dilemma and without any fence to anyone, but I am also absolutely against it being politicized and absolutely against the innocent being accused of war crimes, and all of you here know that either one of you has been released after 3-4 years of imprisonment in The Hague and that no one in this country has responded. I agree with Mr Križanović, that we must protect the interests of all BiH citizens, but we must protect the interests of citizens and citizens and against persecution, which they did not deserve. We must protect their rights so that they are not put in prisons innocent and that is our duty. We can't afford the luxury that because of the oatmeal grades or because of something, I don't know what kind of reason we're walking into traps. I noticed two things on this piece of paper, the date of 3.01, is the date, probably when this paper was written and the receptional stamp of the House of Representatives carrying the same date. I want to ask you and Mr. Lagumdžija a question, whether we will always spend two - three hours when Mr. Lagumdžija gets up untimely in the morning, because he may have heard someone say something somewhere and argue here, whether he will always offer us one 71 resolution to discuss to calm his conscience and us. Because if Mr. Eždaun or anyone else has said that it is, I think they deserve this parliament, I think they deserve the citizens to think that we're determined by anyone who's against having criminals answer, regardless, and that's where I agree, but no, maybe I haven't heard it, maybe it is, maybe it isn't. I think this is too serious matter to use for political purposes and this debate has so far shown the aim of the promoter is fulfilled. We now need to show that we are as good as he thinks we are, because I only show Mr. Lagumdžija that I am not good because, as much as he thinks I am, or that I am not as bad as he thinks I am, I will be against this proposal and all of these suggestions that Mr. Lagumdžija has, but also anyone else in the motive of this kind will present to us representatives here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7094	We're not going to another round of debates. Please, I'm done arguing. So I finished the debate and gave my word to the motionor of the resolution. You haven't been following what I'm saying or maybe you missed that part of the session, maybe that's more specific. Please, now, we have concluded a debate on this subject and now we have Mr. Lagumdžija reporting to give an answer and we have Mrs. Miličević and we have Mr. Raguž and we will no longer discuss this, please. Let's get this over with and done with. Mr. Lagumdžija, you have the answer to, please. Do you have an answer now or do you want to wait any longer? Mr. Raguž. The lady's fine. Mrs. Miličević. She hasn't called before. You've called before, but she has an advantage. Here's the one behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7095	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ja have been invited to this discussion by the discussion of my two predecessors and once again reading by who knows which time this resolution and rewinding as well as by us what, how and why, I come up with one knowledge of the occasion I have one question for Mr Lagumdžija. This reminds me very much of the preamble of the Constitution, which we swore to, because that's where we're determined, we believe, we will, etc. and here we are asked to declare the resolution where we are said to be determined to show consistency and readiness for the rapid and consistent implementation of the reform documents, which are defined. I'm just asking you who you were last year, since I'm new at this job. Did you also have to prove yourself to yourself last time in this resolution that you were really reformers or that you, apriori, were reformers, someone who had a verification of atest? Who's giving that atest, and is this resolution just for us here today atest? Therefore, whether they have reformers at birth and we should be convinced. Thank you very much and so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7096	Okay, thanks. Mr. Raguž Martin.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7097	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your correctness. I, indeed, didn't hear you conclude the debate, I won't be long because of the consistency of our intervention with ten and more signatures that essentially discuss the issue of security in BiH, which is why I wanted to react to this point so that there are no wrong interpretations. We see this resolution as opening a serious debate on one of the most important issues for BiH citizens and peoples, and in this sense we will support a serious debate on all issues of cooperation between BiH institutions and state and 72 entities with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and this requires gentlemen of all elements, which mean that institutions, and especially this home, are competently decided, whether all crimes are covered and processed, prepared for possible processing, whether innocently accused are compensated in a certain way, whether in a spiritual way, or whether the institutions and bodies are state-owned, make it all possible for those most responsible for war crimes to be found in The Hague. Here's just one brief intervention. That is why we have avoided the ad-hoc provision of the Kostanica case because we believe that the security problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina is such a serious issue that all competent institutions need to give an answer to gentlemen. The issue of the vulnerability of the Bosnia and Herzegovina border. The issue of the functioning of the competent and security and intelligence services. The issue of the international dimension and roles and networking and networking of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The safety of the returnees. The locations at which this happens shall be concluded by a series of serious and responsible conclusions requiring a determination. That's how this resolution and I want to treat Mr. Lagumdžija's initiative in this context. Therefore, we will welcome her in the sense that we can get relevant information here from the Council of Ministers on the state of relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and entities and states with The Hague, obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to meet in this regard by dynamic deadlines and all other segments. I think it would be correct for him to accept this that kind of approach and reaction to its resolution is correct. And as for his statement on his relationship with the international community and the consistency of this relationship, it would be possible to discuss this, it would be particularly discussed about the relationship he had two years ago with relevant international factors and the formation of authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the prosecution of one legitimate will, the majority will of one nation and a number of other things. But it's not a question for discussion right now, so here I just want to remind you that we should always have this consistency. So not just the moment the High Representative lets the parliamentary majority form here, and not that it is obstructed by some ambassador as it was last time. So let's be consistent two years ago and now for the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7098	Okay. The debate is therefore final. More Mr. Lagumdžija, then we move on to a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7099	I have to admit, with my colleague Raguž, he says what he won't talk about, that's when I always listen most carefully. In fact, I wouldn't be speaking in such wide-ranging brushes and painting what happened two years ago as obstruction of power with the help of the ambassadors. Because if you said it that way, so if you said it that way, I'd probably fall into the same trap that my colleague Raguž walked into, so I'd say that now someone else has obstructed what we now have as a majority, and that doesn't come out of my head to say it. Time will tell. However, I am obliged here to correct myself to answer the question I was asked. So if you're up for this resolution, Mr. Lozančić, you're not going to do it because of it, that's why you're being nice, good and willing to cooperate. If you don't, then you'll probably go 73 more ready to meet what's ahead of us for both us and you all sitting here. And this isn't about who's nice and good and ready to work together, but this is about how ready we are to Anticipate what's ahead of us and to go to meet it in a way that will bring us all better together. I really don't think it's correct that you treat these resolutions as something that's the result of my possible insomnia. But every time I wake up with an idea like this I'll use my business right to put you in a position to imagine whether you'll become beautiful and good and ready to cooperate. So what's fascinating really, and that's that we in this resolution talked more about what my motives are than what's here. Be assured that you will be followed by the question of what your motives are, and I don't have to ask you that question when you disappear behind this, in this form or that form. Here, Mr. Chairman, I'm giving you this with my own hand amendment recorded, what I said here. You can compare it to mine. So exactly recorded in the final form. And what shocked me, perhaps it's a nervousness that we're unnecessarily here today that you tell me in advance that you'll never vote for what comes from 2-3 right of you because of my motives. I mean colleague Lozančić, I mean what they say and in totalitarian regimes allowed someone to have a hidden motive, so that he was not denied the right to the proposal and that the proposal was disqualified before it was proposed for motive. It's not right. You can go against it. I know you'll be against it, and it's your right, but let it be a little hard to go together if we want to cooperate well. There's no need. And since you'd have a question if we had an atest because we were reformers or reformers, whatever you want two years ago. In response we did have it where the atheists are given, the international community here was giving atheists as it is now unfortunately giving. She gave us an atom, believed we were reformers. I come from a political party that has atest where atheists are given that the reformist democratic party is a social democratic party member of the Socialist International. So we as a party have the same standard. Well, it doesn't matter, the people gave as much as they gave, but neither did the people give Sadam Husein's atest, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7100	Come on, please don't have a debate like this right now, pay phone place.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7101	Well, of course not, but you see, let it go when it tells me that the people didn't give an atest, and then you react to Sadam Husein's course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7102	Don't, Mr. Lagumdžija. I don't think you really need to give me any kind of objection. I just want to keep, please, to keep order and dignity in this congregation hall, nothing more. You don't need that, Mr. Lagumdžija, when it comes to me. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7103	Now, for those very reasons, in the hope that I answered the question, knowing that you are not satisfied with the answers, I would ask you to put the resolution in that form to the vote, so what the hell, then let everyone ask everyone what his motives were.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7104	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Mr. Lozančić, there's no point anymore. Okay. He's right. Here's the deal. The room's two sides of the suggestion. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7105	I respect both the knowledge and rhetoric and the experience of Mr Lagumdžija, but let him also recognize that at least I know so much that it is totalitarian to accept everything that someone proposes, and that it is exactly the opposite of being democratic and against something that someone proposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-01-03-0.u7106	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I ask you who is for the text of the resolution as the motionor accepted the suggestions after the debate, and how did he say that about the pay phone here and hand it over here in this document? Who's in? Count it, please. I said what I said, so what the promoter accepted. Thank you. Who's against the resolution? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. Give me the results. Of the 36 MPs 21 for, 9 against, 5 abstentions. The resolution has received general parliamentary support and we are going to enter into a statement by entities. From the Federation, who's in favor of the resolution? Here's this paper. Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's for the resolution? From the Federation vote results, 20 is in favour. Republika Srpska 1 is in favour. There are no resolutions required by the entity majority of the Republic of Srspka and go to the College for a salutation. Moving to the next item on the agenda is point Ad. 11. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism Financing I am opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. 75 Who is to give consent to the ratification of this document? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? Give me the results. May I have your attention, please? 36 for, there's no one against, no abstentions. I agree that we have given consent, that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given its consent to ratify the International Convention on the Facilitation of Terrorist Financing. We move to the item of the agenda (b) I am opening the debate by giving consent to the ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. 37 votes, 37 for, no problem, no abstentions. I find that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey. We move to point 11c) Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? I'll take a chart while you're at least there, just to count yourself in. And count this man who enters the O.R. right now, and here he raises his hand. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? 38 votes for, no votes against, no abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has agreed to ratify the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. We move to point 76 11.d) I am opening the debate by giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Spain. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you. I agree that with 38 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, the ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Spain and we are going to the point 11d) We agree on a ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that, please, just a little attention from 37 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, has been given consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic. In this way, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests have exhausted the agenda of today's session. I'm closing session 6 o'clock and 15 minutes. Thank you. Please, I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on behalf of the House and on my personal behalf by performing Christmas. Thank you. Live and sound.
