ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u352	Dear envoys, your Excellency, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and I welcome you all to the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All 15 envoys are present at the session. So everyone in the order of one, the other and the third people. For the 6th session, I propose the next agenda. Answer the envoy's questions. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 4th and 5th session of the House of Peoples, 3rd. Establishing a temporary commission for the making of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 6. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Policy and Direct Foreign Investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 7. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 8 / 8 Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, 9. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 10. Proposal for an Executive Procedure Act before the Court of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 2 11. Proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 12. Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 13. Proposal for a law on the quality control of certain products in import and export, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 15. Ratification of Protocol 13 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the elimination of the death penalty in all circumstances, Proposer of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 16. Ratification of Protocol 12 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 17. The degree of compliance between Bosnia and Herzegovina with its obligations towards the Council of Europe and other international institutions in 2003, the list of post-prepared commitments of BiH with the proposal for action, which we received in materials, 18. Verification of conclusions with 1. Plenary sessions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 10 April 2003 One note, before we move to the debate on the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have completed the addition of the agenda that we have divided into benches with a point under regular number 8. Request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the BiH Presidency. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u353	Mr. Chairman and the other members of the College, I would like to propose that my fellow MPs be added to the agenda before the debate on the agenda is opened, on a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Commission to discuss this morning - a proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in connection with the events on the Arizona Market. The proposal for a conclusion will be given in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u354	Thank you. Is there more? Mr. Čengić. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u355	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, remain present, absolutely certain that this topic proposed as an additional or complementary to today's agenda can be very interesting. Since we don't have any material, it might be better to consider this as an initiative for the next session, and in the meantime to provide some material based on which we can discuss this matter. Because I don't have any material, and what I hear in the media is not the basis for me and can't be the basis for such a serious conversation. So without denying the importance of this topic, I suggest that we perhaps take this as an initiative and put it into the next session of the agenda, and until then the motionary prepares the material that will be the basis for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u356	I thank Mr. Čengić. We have two suggestions, Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u357	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and gentlemen, I must speak a few words on behalf of the protection of the single decision, the unanimous decision of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in connection with this proposal for a conclusion. We are all here sitting in the House of Peoples and not only have we received an open letter from the Association of Citizens about the problem that has long, long run on the Arizona Market and since, among other things, in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it is a matter of discussing human rights violations and freedoms, fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there is no confusion, one brief conclusion, proposing it to the House to accept or reject it in connection with this event, without investing in the measure of things. It is something that, when time drives us, it is something that is the constitutional-legal commission's duty to react to it no matter where, at which premises Bosnia and Herzegovina's injured human right is the duty of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to react to it and it is a duty for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to report this House. The home will take a stand on how it is assessed to be the way it should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u358	I thank Mr Filipović. Anyone else want one? Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u359	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, distinguished guests, just to help a fellow chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So the conclusion is very simple and short. The proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is, in fact, what 4 mentions, to request information from the Council of Ministers in order to have assumptions for a quality debate on this issue at the next session of the House of Nations. So in conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion is just to ask for information and I think we can accept a agenda like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u360	I thank you for further clarification. Here we are. Here's Mr. Čengić giving up his proposal. So here we have Mr. Ili Filipović's proposal that we put the conclusion of our session on the 19th point of today's agenda, he now prepares himself in the professional services, gets here at any moment on the benches, but we heard his content, so – Event around Arizona Market. I think we can make a statement about the expansion, yes, the expansion of the agenda. I give the plea to be classified as a item of the agenda under number 19. Events around Arizona Market. So it's our conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted the new agenda item number 19. Events around Arizona Market. We're going to make our point at this point. Is there anyone else who wants to come forward in the debate about the agenda proposal? If there is no one to discuss, I hereby conclude the debate and suggest that we adopt such a agenda as was read in the proposal with this supplement that we have just voted on. Who's up to the agenda like this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously accepted this updated agenda. We'd go straight to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. Answers to the questions of envoys, envoys' questions and answers to envoys' questions The answers to the questions asked were Velimir Jukić and Osman Brka. I ask the envoys if they're satisfied with the answers? Mr. brkati, here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u361	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, gentlemen journalists, I have asked a very simple question, and I have received an insurmountable answer. Although I don't know, I didn't see the service pass that question on, but my question was very clear. Since the answer is completely unclear I'm indistinguishable, I'll repeat the question, but now I'll read it and please. It's written. We all know that an embargo has been adopted for the countries of the former Yugoslavia by the Security Council for the import and transport of weapons. We know when it happened. My question is very clear – is this embargo for the countries of the former Yugoslavia lifted by whoever brought it? I didn't get an answer to that question and I repeat it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u362	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Zoran Spasojević. Is it? Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u363	I'm sorry, but I have a question, I didn't get it, I asked a question at the last session, and I don't know what the reason is, is that it's that period of a month, but at least it's within a month, to get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u364	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Anyone else want to ask a lawyer a question? Until someone decides I'll comment briefly on the answer to their question. I asked the Council of Ministers and got the answer, and with the answer I'm not satisfied, the answer is incomplete. So my question was - How much was issued for the international transport of goods in the last year and what was the way they were distributed? That's just one part of the question, and the main question was 6 - What does the Council of Ministers and other responsible institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina make this problem permanently solved? So that there are no more problems for our carriers and users of international licences for the transport of goods and human beings, but to have the issue, that is, solved and that they can deal in this business uninterruptedly in accordance with the law and other regulations. So I will now extend my question - What do the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina make to solve this problem, therefore a permanent, and already chronic lack of certain types of permits for international transport of goods and passengers? Because it is known that other neighbouring countries and other countries are solving these problems in a very efficient way and no one but our carriers and our businesses has such problems. These days we also had a drastic example when some agencies of tourist and transport houses agreed to certain visits by foreign guests and tourists, it was several groups of 50 guests, but because of the inability to solve this problem, obtaining permission to transport passengers in international transport these people could not do this agreed job. So they lost part of their jobs, lost their share, part of their reputation as a business, and most importantly, we lost everyone together, we lost the opportunity to introduce ourselves to the world and bring people here and that here are those who do this job, that is, do their jobs, earn their daily bread. Here's the direction I'd like this question to go, and that means I'm going to do it again. The point is - What are the responsible institutions of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to address this problem, this important issue? Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u365	Dear Mr. President and Mr. Chairman, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected representatives of public information funds, distinguished fellow envoys, honored guests, esteemed representatives of professional services, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to ask a precise question and will not give an additional explanation. I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Security, Mr Bariša Čolak, i.e. I would like to ask two of the following questions 1. What is the national structure of employees in the Ministry of Interior of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska? And 7 2. What are the nationalities of the behaviour of the following responsibilities at the MUP of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the MUP of Republika Srpska - Minister, Director of the Administration of the Administration, - Director of the Police Academy, - Head of the Criminal Police Sector, - Commander of the Service for Special and Special Uses, - Commander of the Unit for the Protection of Objects and Persons, - Head of Criminal Engineering, - Chief of Legal Service, and - Chief of Legal Service and - Chief of Financial Affairs Please, Minister of Čolak, give me in accordance with the provisions of Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations shall respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u366	I thank Mr. Ambassador Limov. Is there anyone else? Mr. brkati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u367	At the session of April 1st, I asked Mr Dragan Čović a parliamentary question which I had not received an answer to and I will only be here to quote the 121st member of our Rules of Procedure 'in Section 3. - '"A response in writing must be delivered within 15 days. Extraordinary may be required to extend the deadline for the next 10 days.' Since these 15 days have passed, these 10 are probably not yet, I will repeat the question to Mr Čović here and warn our fellow Members here that I will, according to Section 5. Rules of Procedure 121, which states: 'if the answer is not delivered within the time limit referred to in Article 121(3), the applicant of the question may request from the College that the question to which the answer is required be included in the agenda of the next meeting of the House'. Since I'm really going to ask, I'm asking right now, if I don't get an answer from Mr. Čović, I'm going to ask that for the next session of the House to be a part of the agenda at our session, and if that's the case, I have here an unofficial translation of that interview, and I have an English original and I'm going to deliver it here now to our three presidents and presidents of the clubs to have it and to see if this is really what we need to keep quiet or we need an answer and we need a busy attitude, or the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina should get an explanation of what's being said here. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u368	I thank Mr. Brk. Is there anyone else? Mr. Spasojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u369	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, or delegates, dear guests, I just want to ask one question I don't know right now who might answer it, and the question is very delicate. It is the delegates of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House where Srbin are suspended for a number of delegates, and the issue has been open for a long time and I am now asking either the OHR or the High Representative - When will Srbin get that quota that has it by law and belongs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u370	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Who else wants to answer the question? Since there are no more reports, we're going to end up with this agenda point. Of course, those to whom questions are referred need to be answered within the time limit set and answered. We hope he does. We're moving on to the second item of the Ad agenda. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 4th and 5th sessions of the House of Peoples we have received these minutes. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Some intervention, some supplementation or something. I don't see any reports. I find that no one wants to answer and discuss this, and I suggest we adopt the minutes of the 4th and 5th sessions. Who's in favor of a decision like this? Who's in? I thank you for having unanimously adopted the minutes of the 4th and 5th session of the House of Peoples. We're moving to the third item of the Ad agenda. 3. The establishment of a temporary commission for the creation and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples This was decided at the Joint College of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was also decided on our college and here we agreed to elect six members, two from each nation. 9 I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Mr. Milojević. Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u371	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honored guests at the very beginning of my first turn today I would like to congratulate the largest Christian holiday of all Hrvat and all Srbin and all others who celebrate it in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you know Easter or Easter. In this item of the agenda, you know that we had one session at our home and that at the request of the Serb delegates, this point was taken down, that is to say, in accordance with the College that was sitting in the session's break. In the meantime, we are aware of the fact that in the House of Representatives, the same commission has been formed, so for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and in common, at the meetings of the Joint College, we meet with proposals coming mainly from the Commission, and the proposals concern the establishment of some new commissions that should be processed in the Rules of Procedures. So we unanimously concluded on our college that it is necessary for us to set up this committee in our home, and here is what the chairman said, Mr. Jukić we also suggested that this commission therefore has two members from every nation and here, of course I will use this exit for a pay phone and immediately propose to the Serbian people two members of that committee. So I propose Mr. Šiljegović, the head of our club and Mr. Radovanović in front of the Serbian People's Delegates Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u372	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr Mustafa Pamuk. Mr. Mustafa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u373	Here I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all to the Club of MPs, representatives of the Bosniak people in this commission, I propose – Dr. Halid Genjac and Mr Hasan Čengić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u374	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Mr. Ante Spajić. Sir, ISpajić join you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Club, the proposal is - Mr. Velimir Jukić and Mr. Ilija Filipović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u376	I thank Mr. Spajić. We have a complete proposal. I am making a statement of the proposal yes, the Commission's proposal. Are there any objections or actually additions? It's hard to have anything. This came from the clubs that it was harmonised. We used to talk about it six by two from every nation. I'll read these names one more time. So the Committee for the Making and Supplement of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples: - Mr. Šiljegović, - Mr. Radovanović, - Mr. Genjac, - Mr. Čengić, - Jukić and - Mr. Filipović. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously chosen the Committee for the Construction and Complementary of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples in the Word. Let's make a deal here right now so there's no one to call the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u377	You. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u378	Here's what they suggest it's me. I accept that. We took care of it right away. We're done. Yes, it is. We're done with this agenda. Let's go to the next one. Fourth point 11 Ad. 4. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Article 100) Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations), Proposer of the Council of Ministers pursuant to Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement of the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The amendments, as you know, are not tolerated. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law was adopted at a session of the House of Representatives held on 22.4. yesterday. I'm opening a debate. Do we have anyone here on behalf of the promoter? Obviously we don't. Mr. Neimarlija and Mr. Čengić want to come to the debate. Mr. Neimarlia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u379	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates and guests I would also take this opportunity first to congratulate the great Easter Day on Catholics who have already been the Vaskrs Orthodox who will be, and I have come out that on behalf of Bosniak delegates before I declare the procedure for this bill I say that we have an understanding for the reasons of the Council of Ministers that the adoption of this law goes according to an urgent procedure. However, we believe that in publishing this law it would be necessary to make technical adjustments, because the text was subscribed, not to say mistakes, but to make clear the English translation of Article 3 where it stands - that decisions of appropriate citizenship are made by competent entity authorities and instead of inappropriate expression or inappropriate syntax of competent authorities should stand - the relevant entity bodies. And secondly, just to remove both the stylish and the linguistic disadvantages I suggest that, also when publishing this Law in Article 1 in the second position, the word "work" is changed twice or replaced by the word "consequence", because here it is wrong to say so. In addition to this recommendation, or should I suggest that when the law is published, these groomings are carried out and we hold that it can be told about the procedure for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u380	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u381	And I also join the congratulations on holidays and Catholic and Orthodox believers, and I hope that such holidays will bring people’s religious feelings to life first, and the second one will make us understand and look for common solutions. 12 As for what Mr Neimarlija said, I would have the following supplement, or rather a principled suggestion for the representatives of the Council of Ministers, by reminding the chairman and leadership of the House or the College of the House that we, if I recall, have taken the position that we will not decide on points for which there are no representatives. So I think this is really inappropriate and inappropriate by the Council of Ministers and it is inadmissible for the Council of Ministers to approach such serious issues that on the one hand it proposes an emergency procedure for our home under Article 100 and that there is no representative on the other hand. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. Neimarlija, in the role of the proposer's lawyer, explained something that is very logical, but is it quite true that we can only really know that if a proposaler's representative comes to explain it to us? In his view, this concept of competence in Article 3 is a poor or uncomplicated translation from English, which should actually be a competent authority. But you know very well that there are different institutions in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska responsible for this issue. While the Ministry of Interior in Republika Srpska is on one side, help me with what's called an agency or something that's responsible for citizenship. Therefore, it is certainly a different name of an institution that is competent in one entity or another. Please, I don't see any reason why the motionary, if I understand in this case the Council of Ministers did not specify the specific and precise name of the institution in each entity responsible for this job. For a very simple reason, I will personally be absolutely against the Law in which there would be a definition of how it currently stands in the text that we have received, which is that it is a competent authority. If it's a competent authority, then it's subject to an interpretation that might be a government, that it's a ministry, that tomorrow it's another ministry, that it's a third time, that it's a municipality or community service, etc. It's just inadmissible. We can't do things that serious like that. So I see no reason and no obstacle why the Council of Ministers in the text in Article 3 of this Act accurately stated the full name of the institution in each of the entities that the work is doing and for which they are in charge at this time. I find it necessary for the chairman to carry out such an addition to this provision of the law. Whether we do it now or later it stays at the House to decide. The second question I want to raise here is the principle of nature and I suppose it will be interesting for all my colleagues since we are all members of one or more committees of this House. According to the general definition of the Rules of Procedure for the issues that treat this, let's say this Law or some other law is a commission. We have several laws in this agenda that went according to article 100. So by the definition of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law goes by article 100, then the debates on committees and commissions are avoided at all, but the law goes directly to the House. 13 I can understand one of the reasons why it was done. The reason is to speed up procedures, to shorten procedures, etc. But I must say that for me it is, in fact, something that is directly contrary to this House's decision, which is that the House has a role to play, namely that the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina has its legal role as legislator. So it participates actively in the making of laws and all other acts that are within Parliament's jurisdiction. In this way, the fact that the House is essentially preventing it from actively taking part in bringing it before the final act and not allowing its committees formed on some principle to be able to deal seriously and thoroughly with issues from their own domain, thus bringing the House to debate it directly and avoiding the competence of the commission. At the very least, if the commission cannot stop this proposal and cannot change the proposal that this goes according to a shortened procedure, the Commission still has the opportunity to report to the House on its position and its expert opinion on the issue in question. For this reason, I am taking this opportunity, Mr. Chairman, to propose an initiative to amend this provision in the new Rules of Procedure of this House and to allow commissions to also discuss issues that go according to Article 100, and to remain that rule that Article 100 is therefore a shortened procedure. I believe that this is a contribution to Parliament's work and to Parliament's position on the one hand, and on the other hand, it may be an incentive to the Council of Ministers to seek other technical forms of co-operation with Parlamento and before the law comes into place to discuss it under Article 100 at our House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u382	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u383	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, just for a little while. I think it is necessary to say that in the Croatian version, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina is exactly what the esteemed colleague Neimarlija was referring to. It seems to me that this is the wrong translation into Bosniak and so it should be taken to Bosnian, I apologize to Mr. Čengić and so should be taken. So in Article 3, when it comes to the Bosnian version of the text, we just need to translate it correctly. In the Croatian version it says that – decisions according to the articles listed here are made by the competent bodies of the entity and that is quite ok. It's competent, you know, it's something that's, it's got nothing to do with what's meant to be said. And here it's even misspelled, it seems to me that what Mr. Neimarlija asked for to make these technical corrections in Article 1 where they say, for the sake of taking over, is mistranslated. It should be said because of the undertaking, that is, the consequences of the undertaking as Mr. Neimralija said. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u384	I thank Mr Filipović. Like this, no one answered for the hearing anymore. At our first session, we have reached one conclusion about our work, which states that our House, the House of Nations will not declare any proposal without explanation, or without the authority of the promoters. In this case, we don't have anyone on behalf of the promoter, and according to that conclusion, we should take this proposal off the agenda. The only thing we can do yet, I don't know if the Rules of Procedure allow us, I think that, to postpone our statement about this Law until the end of our session, if really one of the motions shows up and possibly explains this one, some doubts, then we are willing to approach a statement about this bill. Do you agree with our treatment? You agree. Then can we draw a conclusion like this? It means we postpone the plea after the discussion of the text of the Law has been completed until the very end. Who's to this conclusion? We're just postponing a statement for the end of the session. Who's to this conclusion? Who's in? 12 for it. Thank you. Who's against it? - One abstention? Two abstentions, yes. I thank you all. And I would ask that someone from the professional service inform the Resolute Ministry, or competent, is, that we are nevertheless here to be cooperative maximum and consistent in implementing our conclusions on our way of working. I thank you all. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers pursuant to Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House, the House, decides on a request for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). The law was adopted at a session of the House of Representatives held on 22.4. yesterday. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The president, the speaker's representative, is reporting. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u385	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your time. I would like to say that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Traffic is one of the laws made together with the Buldožer Commission established by the OHR. You have also seen the most important thing that is that the Buldozer Commission proposal was extremely high quality, that it asked us for improvements and relief, i.e. liberalisation of obtaining permits for international and inter-entity traffic. I must say that it is extremely important that the talks with the carriers and with the chambers in Bosnia and Herzegovina have brought together the common solutions that have been proposed here. The proposed solutions will allow all carriers in Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain driving licenses without discrimination in a simpler and more efficient way, i.e. for international and inter-entity traffic. You've seen here a review of the members we've delivered to you that change and you've seen exactly what changes there. The restrictions so far have been changed, which is that a specific entity carrier must always have the consent of the resolution ministry from that other entity or Brcko District. It is eliminated, brought to an equal position by all carriers. I would like to take this opportunity to express my regret as to why the Honorable Chairman, Mr Jukić, is not satisfied with the answer to his parliamentary question, and we will try to prepare for the next session an extremely good answer as he asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u386	I thank Mr. Deputy Minister Mr. Bašić. Mr. Čengić is reporting for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u387	Mr. Chairman, if I understand the proposal to amend and supplement this law, it is essentially about speeding up the process of registering foreign investment, therefore shortening the time that is definitely important and may be significant for attracting foreign investment. It's what it is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u388	Fifth is the point. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u389	As far as this road traffic is concerned, he really is, and I've looked at it. I'm sorry, but okay. No, I just looked at it. The point is, this should have been done a long time ago. But what I meant to say is this. I'm afraid after half a year, we're gonna get into a situation where we're gonna fix ourselves and we're gonna use ourselves and we're gonna say that we did the wrong thing methodologically. And why is that? The Bulldozer Commission is definitely in my opinion well-intentioned. However, it does not mean that the approach offered by you is something that binds us and as best as possible. In light of the fact that this is an initiative, so a huge number of institutions, companies, etc. So on very different issues which from completely different angles look at the same problem, or different problems, I am quite convinced that in some things we will lose the whole and consistency and compatibility of the solution. For this reason, I think it would be useful to first try to set up a whole of the Council of Ministers, so all the changes it intends to make on the basis of the Buldozer Commission proposal together. Secondly, it would be very useful for me to hold one meeting, this House, whether or not the other House will be able to propose it, but this House and representatives of the Council of Ministers on all issues initiated by the Bulldozer Commission, which the Council of Ministers accepts and for which the Council of Ministers has concrete solutions and concrete remarks. I am convinced that one such conversation would allow us to see the whole and allow us to consider positive solutions, but possibly also the negative effects of some solutions in relation to existing laws or existing solutions. There are already warnings that very soon we will become contradictory in some things compared to what is now, which so far etc. For that reason I consider, thus supporting the idea that through this so-called. We fix the Bulldozer Commission as far as possible and make legal solutions more efficient and state infrastructure operational than ever before. I think it would be very useful for the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent authorities of the Council of Ministers, to propose a session to discuss the whole of the proposals and the changes they are going with, and with regard to the Buldožer Commission, so that we can get one, one clear picture, and then perhaps even consider the possibility of considering it at a special session. So all that was prepared for discussion and adoption that we might be going with a special session where we would decide about it to preserve the consistency of the system and to ensure compatibility at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u390	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone else who would like to report for the hearing? No more reports. I'm closing the debate. First, we declare that we are considering this law in accordance with Article 100(2). 17 Who's in? - 14 for it. Thank you. I find that with 14 votes to go. Excuse me. Who's against it? uzdržati? - 1 I konstatirati that with 14 votes for, 1 abstentioned, it is decided that this law is being considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We are now pleading on the text of the law. Who's in favor of this text of the law? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposed text of the law. We're going to the next point of Day Ad. Six. Request for a review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Politics and Direct Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina The request is subject to Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, is the proposer of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples decide on the requirement to consider the Law in accordance with this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). The law was adopted at a session of the House of Representatives held on 22.4. yesterday. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone on behalf of the promoter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u391	I will, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, simply say that this is the same law that the Bulldozer Commission prepared in this coordination in our Council of Ministers and its aim is to simplify the absolute procedure and speed up the registration of foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina to remove one of the administrative obstacles to foreign capital flow in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He has a constitutional basis for passing. We have cited exactly what the goal is, and I think this is also one of the laws that we need to adopt today. If there's anyone closer to clarifying these members, I have here and the old law and this amendment and we'll get involved in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u392	I thank Mr. Tošić. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Čengić. Mr. Čengić, go ahead. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u393	So I apologize for repeating myself from a moment ago. I support the whole initiative to shorten the procedure for registering foreign investment and I think this is a good and useful solution. I am convinced that in this sense other solutions will also be provided that will really speed up and shorten this procedure. However, I would like to understand the reason why the promoter led to leave a period of 3 months in which, every 3 months, the competent registration courts will provide information on new foreign investments registered in that court by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have an impression. There may be two reasons. One may be insufficiently equipped with registration courts, information computer equipment. It could probably be an apology, but I'm asking you to somehow see how we can solve these problems. It would be natural for the same day that the registration procedure at the competent registration court is finally completed automatically in the computer, the database of that court, to be stored automatically, or to be sent to the central database of the Council of Ministers, or to the competent institution. That's what would be minimally necessary. If the obstacle was and there was a lack of equipment technical equipment, then I personally think that the funds that would be needed for this would not be very large. But I have to tell you one thing, please don't be angry. When someone on the side comes into a situation to read this information, they'll have an explanation. If his explanation is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in no condition in 10, 15 or 30, I don't know how many of these registration courts are in the country, so it's unable to provide minimal electronic equipment for the automatic transmission of such data, then that, such an investor may fear not to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It may seem too formal, but it's not at all. So it's actually a very serious picture of us on the outside that might cost maybe 100, maybe 150 thousand KM, I don't know exactly how much, but definitely, in financial terms. However, in terms of the image and representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the outside, it can greatly, much more cost or much more. So I don't think that this should be changed at this point, but I think it would be good within a very reasonable time frame to look for solutions to be found in a way not to inform every three months, but to be automatic data storage, which would speed up all other operations and activities and courts and companies and all other institutions, banks and all others in a chain that is related to foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u394	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Who's picking up next for the debate? Here you go, Mr. Tošić. It's because of the stenogram. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u395	I mean, we got along. Mr. Čengić just gave part of the answer. It will take a time of three months for absolutely statistical all data to be placed in one place and entities at the moment, because they went by entities registration in some way to unite in one place. And then we agreed that at all times and in entities, we had a report on all foreign investments from one place that would be. __________ We're going to have to have an amendment to this law. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Absolutely. But this is the beginning, and this is how we have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u397	I thank Mr. Tošić for further clarifications. Who else is answering for a hearing? I don't see anyone answering. I hereby conclude the debate and invite you to make a statement about the way we are considering it, so I propose that this law be considered in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in this way? Who's in? Thank you. Who's being held back? - 1 abstention Who's Against? I conclude that with 13 votes for and 1 abstention, we have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We will approach the statement of the very text of the Law, of the Law. I suggest we pass a law like this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Direct and Foreign Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That would end up with this point and we'd move on to the 7th point of the agenda, and that would be Ad. Seven. The proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a proposal to consider this in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers. 20 In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The law was adopted at a session of the House of Representatives held on 22.4. yesterday. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Do we have a representative of the promoter? There is. Here you go. Mr. Momir Tošić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u398	Mr. Chairman and this is just the amendments of the Law to the already coordinated deal with the Buldožer Commission, where we are on behalf of our ministry, or the Council of Ministers proposes and it passed yesterday at the House of Representatives to amend and supplement the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to just improve this flow to say both goods and cash investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this, with the coordination of meanings with representatives and Kafao and Customs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has come to these solutions. The most important thing here is that this equipment imported into a free zone is intended for the production of free zones that will be exempt from paying customs duties and customs duties excluding only customs registration. In that part and this Article 3 where we replaced in this here, if you follow this old law that, so far, there was at least 65% of the total value of the produced goods that attacked the free zone over 12 months, we reduced it to 50. We just have as strong a flow as we can and in some ways we're stimulating this foreign investment in these free customs zones. So here's what would be about that, and I think with this we're trying to coordinate with this bulldozer team in some way, let's make sure that we have a better flow and, in some ways, lift it up wherever possible to produce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u399	I thank Mr. Tošić. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I find that we can conclude the debate and approach a statement on the procedure. I propose that we consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Thank you. Who's being held back? - 1 against? I konstatirati that with 14 votes and 1 abstentions, we have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 21 Now we shall approach the statement of the text of the law. Who's to pass a law like this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus ended the 7th agenda. We're moving to the 8th point of the Ad agenda. 8. The proposal for a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed to follow Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, is proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. As known, the amendments are not to be submitted to Article 100(3). The law was adopted at a session of the House of Representatives held on 22.4. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone there? Does he have a proposaling representative? There isn't. There is. Here you go. If you don't have anything in your area anymore. If Zdenka is authorized on behalf of you. All right. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u400	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just explain for a little while. I'm with the Bureau on two conventions, or two protocols. As far as this law is concerned, I've been informed that Mr. Piter nikol, the governor, has been informed and should come to the session to interpret this law. Yesterday, he also held a longer speech on the law at the House of Representatives. So I would ask him to wait for him to call and come to the end of the session and present this law. If you accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u401	Okay. Thank you. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u402	I say, I've been informed that he should come.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u403	Okay. Thank you. Here we may now take advantage of Mr. Halilović's opportunity has arrived, so he may now be in this break, you know that we are now back to point 4 which we have postponed, because there were no proposing representatives. Let us now return 22 and invite the representative of Prime Minister Halilović to explain to us on behalf of the promoter the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, gospodin Halilović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u404	Dear Presidency, I am obliged to apologize for not being present at the beginning because we had an ambassador, this minister of culture from the Republic of Croatia, where some important talks were held. As far as this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, this is also one of the most important ways of intervention in this area. As far as the reasons for passing this law are concerned, they are less known. Namely, the implementation of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially in the last two years, there has been a need to amend Article 23. The law, which refers to the takeover of BiH citizenship. This is due to the fact that urgent legal solutions are to a certain extent unspecified, i.e. there are some ambiguities regarding the very identification of criminal offences as well as the procedure where ultimately BiH's citizenship should be taken away. The problem was particularly expressed when BiH citizens were taken away from some persons where serious violations of the constitutional order, security and legality in Bosnia and Herzegovina were identified. There have also been ambiguities regarding the process of seizing itself, i.e. the complicity of BiH authorities and entities. This time it's supposed to be the Ministry of Civil Affairs. In soil contacts and with representatives of international organisations in BiH, these amendments and additions to the law have been found necessary. And experts in the field of EU citizenship gave their court on these changes and additions. I think that the details that members are changing everything and in what way they complement it, I don't think there's any need to say that until the last letter is brought into line with the experts of Europe, the Council of Europe for this area to respect therefore European standards on the protection of human rights and on the treatment of all these issues. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u405	I thank Minister Halilović. We have had some objections here in our discussions were made, so I will ask that you do this later, get to know each other, but here we have decided, or we will decide that we are considering this law in accordance with Article 100(2) of our Rules of Procedure, which means that there is no investment in amendments. 23 Mr. Čengić was one of those who had an objection, so here comes the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u406	Well, with the fact that we're now making a fact-finding approach to this law, obviously we need to work things out. It's natural for us to talk in this home and this way. A kolega Filipović mentioned or said here that as far as he was concerned, and he is also a lawyer, which is particularly important, which I respect, looking at the Croatian version of this text there is no dispute and that there is a clear, clear translation there and that it is a competent authority, i.e. a competent institution. Then we should agree on it or read only the Croatian version of this Law or adjust the Bosnian version to it. That's number one. And number two, I'm taking the opportunity because of Mr. Secretary's presence to suggest, suggest or however it is understood that we are not going to such a formulation of the law where it is not necessary. In my opinion, Article 3 of the wording in the Bosnian version of the text is unnecessary, burdensome and there is no reason for it. It was also normal to state in this article the full name of the competent institution of the entity responsible for the issue of citizenship. Everything else can be one way or another, but it's absolutely necessary because it's not far from understanding that a subsequent change of decision can happen on an entity and then in that sense, there's something vague about it again. So for this reason, I believe that if we adopt this law then we should adopt it that in the Bosnian version, the term competent authorities are used in Article 3 instead of competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u407	He's competent. It's a competent question. It can be professional.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u408	I was just talking. So instead of saying competent to use the term competent. It's a legal term and it's more accurate. So, and in the future and we think of this as actually a language repair, so we don't consider this an amendment and a change of laws, but a purely nomotechnical repair and that's how we treat it. And I'm still saying, I suggest that future proposals in similar cases be used, that the full names of institutions be used instead of terms competent, and especially competent are not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u409	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Secretary has a need to clarify. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u410	I won't burden myself with a big debate. I think the remarks are in place. It is a very extensive correspondence with the experts of the Council of Europe, and I think this misunderstanding has occurred mainly in the translation of the text, and I think that MP Čengić has rightly suggested and I think that such an observation can be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u411	I thank the minister again for his extra breakfast. I think we've solved this here, so it's a technical repair, or a translation error. We're approaching the plea. First we declare the procedure. It means yes. We didn't make a statement at all. We didn't. No, are we or aren't we? We're pleading procedure. I propose that we consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? uzdržati? - One thanks. I find that with 14 votes in favour and one abstention, we have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2) of the emergency procedure. We now approach the statement on the text of the law. I suggest that this text ________________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] There were no objections. Obviously everything's fine. I'm in charge. A colleague of Radovanović. Here you go. A colleague of Radovanović wants to. Technical correction, it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u413	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not really clear about this change of word right now. I would suggest perhaps a conclusion in another sense that we do not suggest what kind of translation it will be. Perhaps the conclusion goes in the sense that we are asking that translators and lecturers agree not to specify how. Please. Because if we're saying how to make them do it, it's already 25 amendments. You know. I mean, I don't mind, but this is principled, so this can go away, but let's not get into a situation later on that word change is an amendment. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u414	I thank Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u415	I think we've already understood each other and now, thanks to the Minister's intervention, we've made it very clear to the end. In this it is obvious that longer correspondence in the translation and writing of these texts has been undermined by obvious technical errors and I am glad that there are technical errors in printing or printing the text in the Croatian, Bosnian, Serbian version. I don't know what none of my colleagues have ever reacted to before. It is obvious that the Bosnian version is a false translation, because it cannot stand legally competent authority, but it is a competent authority, or competent authorities, as correctly translated in the Croatian version. It is therefore a matter of technical intervention, and not of substance, and I assume that this applies equally to the Bosnian version and to the Serbian version, if the government is put there instead of authorities and competent instead of competent. ___________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u416	Did Boško hear from you? Mr. Šiljegović wants to take this call.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u417	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, since we have previously declared 14 for and one abstention that this is going by a shortened, urgent procedure under Article 100, everything else is out of the question, except for what Mr Radovanović said technical and lecturing mistakes. If we start correcting words now, whether it's a government or an organ, we're already going to change and please delegates of the Serbian people will be against it. So it's just a lecturing mistake about the words competent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u418	Here I think we've solved all the dilemmas and found that there are no disagreements except for this lecture, etc. We've solved everything. I suggest we now make a statement on the text of the law. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously adopted this proposed text of the law. Thank you. 26 Here we end up with this agenda point. We're going to the Central Bank. We've heard from the promoter, and now we'll hear from the initiators of this law Mr. Piter nikol has joined us. Mr. Piter nikol, please choose to clarify this Act, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law of Mr. Peter Nicole, Governor of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u419	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and your members, for allowing me to address you today. Some of you will hear this another time. I hope you don't mind. The main amendments relate to Article 36. The Central Bank Act. The member refers to a mandatory reserve regulated by the Central Bank for commercial banks. The amendments ahead have been initiated by the Central Bank Governance Council and have the full support of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. And these are the meanings of our proposals and the proposals have been prepared after a very detailed analysis of the existing provisions. The need for these amendments, for these amendments to be treated as an emergency procedure, to be derived from the IMF Decision, to adopt the amendments to Article 36 as they call it. Steps that must take place before the next review of the IMF's Trade Agreement. The Central Bank proposes amendments to Article 36 for two main reasons. The first is to increase efficiency and policy, to make this instrument of mandatory reserve more fair and second reason why we need to start paying attention to a strong increase in loan approval in Bosnia and Herzegovina and possible implications on the balance of payments. Last year, in addition to granting loans in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he was extremely high. The Central Bank believes that there are many other, many good reasons why this happened and that it is mostly positive and quite common for a country such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, for a country that is going through a period of transition where the banking sector was relatively weak, where it comes in a phase of the banking sector that can be called normal. But we believe that in the future we must be able to use the mandatory reserve instrument more actively. In case the loan approval continues to increase this year at the same rate as it was last year. It is the only instrument of business policy given to us by the Central Bank Act and most of the neighbouring countries have already taken steps in the past few months on this issue. For example. I know that in the last few months the minimum reserve rate has increased in both Croatia and Serbia. We propose four amendments to Article 36. The law and I'll explain every change in the short term. 27 The first change refers to the change in the base for the calculation of the mandatory reserve, which would now include foreign deposits, not just deposits in KM. The only reason why we propose this amendment is because existing provisions have a discriminatory relationship to deposits in KM, thus achieving an effect such as that. achieved by introducing a smaller tax on deposits in KM compared to deposits in EUR and other currencies, which is not reasonable at all for the Central Bank which is trying to promote the currency it issues. We do not suggest that KM be placed in any more favourable position than simply to remove the unfavourable position that currently exists. Banks like banks will still be able to decide whether their deposits will be expressed in KM, EUR dollars or any other currency. But in the future, the mandatory reserve will be applied to all deposits regardless of which currency is expressed. The second change relates to the cash held by commercial banks in their vaults that will no longer be included in meeting the mandatory reserve. Currently commercial banks can meet their obligation to reserve by holding deposits with the Central Bank or holding cash in their vaults. But the Central Bank is unable to monitor or control the cash that commercial banks hold in their vaults because many of the banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina now have 40 to 50 branches. We have absolutely no indication that the commercial banks have so far given the Central Bank the wrong reports, but we believe that it is simply a bad principle to make such a decision that you cannot in any way confirm or verify. The effect of both the first changes I mentioned will be such that commercial banks will have an increased reserve they must hold and perhaps you have already seen that some banks have already made statements that due to these changes in business policy they will have to increase interest rates. But there are two other changes that we are proposing, and when these two additional changes are taken into account, you will see that commercial banks have absolutely no excuse to use these amendments as a reason for increasing interest rates. The third change refers to the minimum reserve rate range defined in the Central Bank Act. The current member says the rate can be defined between 10% and 20%, and the current rate is 10%, so that is a minimum rate that is possible under the current law. As I said, the previous two changes will increase the mandatory reserve that banks hold, and therefore I demand that this minimum percentage of 10% be deleted from the law. The decision on the individual reserve rate will be made by the Central Bank Governance Council. And I can only slave you here that if this minimum rate is removed from the law, we will surely decide that the minimum reserve rate is less than 10% as current. And it will mostly neutralize those two changes that have been caused by Amendments I and II. Second change, the fourth change we propose relates to the compensation paid by the Central Bank to commercial banks for deposits held by us. Currently, this part of article 36 is precisely written and the effect is that we really consider it a minor fee on the total reserves that the banks hold with us. And the amendment we're proposing would allow the Central Bank Management Board to just decide on the fees we're going to pay 28. And what I'm actually going to propose to the Governing Council is that we pay compensation for the total funds that banks keep with us, not just part of the funds. It'll have two important effects. First, it will neutralize this change that commercial banks will no longer be able to cash in to meet the mandatory reserves. It will also partially remove the reasons why commercial banks hold large amounts of their reserves in banks outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. Currently, commercial banks have no way of earning a certain interest on their liquidity. This will allow them to receive some income on their liquid assets in the country, which will give them less reason to raise funds from the country. Another amendment proposed concerns Article 3. The Central Bank Act. This is a very important member of the Central Bank Act, in order to regulate the independence of the Central Bank. The Central Bank Act imposes a series of obligations on the Central Bank, but at the same time imposes many restrictions on what we can do, what the Central Bank can do, which means that the Central Bank is not independent in the sense that we can do anything we want. The Central Bank Act gives us many direct restrictions as well as many direct responsibilities, and Parliament can change that by amending the Central Bank Act. But the first sentence in Article 3 says – according to this, in accordance with the limitations and obligations set out in Article 3. The Central Bank is independent of its work. I think that this operational independence is very important for our effective work. But there is a certain confusion in that member in the second part of that third bar in the English version that implies that there is a possibility that the independence of the Central Bank will change under other laws. So me, too, we're suggesting that there's only one word to be added here, so I have to say that this is a very important word. And then the initial sentence of Article 3 as well as the sentence following in Article 3 would be made consistent, making it clear that the independence of the Central Bank cannot be affected or withdrawn under any other law. But there can be changes to the Central Bank Act. I hope that Parliament will be able to adopt these changes today. If these changes are adopted today, the Governing Council of the Central Bank will meet very soon and will discuss the changes that are necessary to end these changes. If possible, we intend to put a new provision into effect next week. But we'll probably give the commercial banks a month to meet their new obligations so the commercial banks can adapt. And our goal is that from June 1st, this provision is likely to come into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u420	I thank Mr. Piter Nikol. Mr. Čengić called for a hearing. Mr. Čengić. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u421	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to welcome Mr. Piter Nikola and thank him for coming to our home today. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate him from my heart on the results he has achieved in the years behind us as governor of the National Bank or the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He came to Bosnia and Herzegovina during a very difficult period at a time of great difficulty, great confusion and ambiguity and his knowledge, but also with confidence in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and its citizens and its peoples and institutions indeed made an important contribution to stabilising economic circumstances and conditions, so I can also say freely by attracting foreign capital in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is no flattery, it's one quite objective and realistic assessment of what's been done. Of course, we all know that there are certain criticisms both in the Central Bank position and in the behaviour of the Management Board and the Governor of the Central Bank by experts or better at understanding that the Central Bank can and should play another role than the one it currently has, but I wouldn't talk about it today. So, after these basic evaluations of Mr. Piter Nikola and the Central Bank's work under his leadership, I am taking the opportunity to ask the following questions about the amendment of the Central Bank Act today. So first reading, three: 1. How does the Central Bank intend to react in case of an increase in the interest of commercial banks, except for what we've already heard and that's by reducing the percentages of mandatory reserves? Does the Central Bank have other instruments in mind that the interest of commercial banks is still high and that objective money in Bosnia and Herzegovina is particularly expensive for the economy? 2. The second question is, if this situation is so known, and it is for a long time, what are the reasons why these changes that are proposed today have not been approached before? So why haven't the amendments to the law we have today been under review done before, perhaps a year or two ago? It is believed that significant funds from Bosnia and Herzegovina's commercial banks have been deposited in foreign banks for a long time and are not in the country's economic system. In that sense, you can of course ask a question if the Central Bank knew why it had not responded before in this same way? 3. And the third question that actually has three questions. Does the Central Bank have precise information or at least an assessment of how much currently the funds of commercial banks deposited with foreign banks outside Bosnia and Herzegovina? Under b) this same question, therefore – is there also an assessment of the Central Bank, if we adopt these changes proposed today by the Central Bank, how much will the funds in 30 years, counting from today on this basis, so the funds that are now deposited in foreign banks and belonging to commercial banks return to Bosnia and Herzegovina? I c) of the third question, according to the Central Bank and the Governor of Mr Nikola, which are the most important positive effects on BH economy, so these amendments to the Law, and in particular the possible return or return of money deposited in foreign banks to the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u422	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else is answering for a hearing? If there's no one I'd ask Mr. Nikola to come and answer the questions asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u423	As for the first question relating to the interest rates of commercial banks, I think the commercial banks responded only to halftime, but to halftime. There are four amendments that are proposed. The only two they knew at that time were those two changes that would have a negative impact on them. At first, they did not know what rate the reserve would be or how much compensation would be paid. I also think that they have played a little bit of a tiara role here to try to convince the Central Bank's Administrative Council to place the mandatory reserve rate at the lowest possible level, and at the same time to have interest rates at the highest possible... As I've already said all four changes, there's simply no excuse for the interest rates to increase. I'll say, actually, I'm saying it in public right now. We'll prepare certain analyses to see if there's a real reason for the decline. We will prepare certain analyses to see if there is a real reason to lower interest rates, because they will now earn a slightly higher income in the Central Bank, which would allow them to slightly reduce the income they earn from their clients. The assets outside were actually the first and second question either why we hadn't done this before. The major changes in the banking system are in fact the result of a change in the EUR which took place 15 months ago. And as you know in Bosnia and Herzegovina there was a much larger amount of German stamp bills than we could have predicted. That amount went to commercial banks and stayed there rather than we could have predicted. The consequences of this bank deposits have increased 110% over the past year. ...that after people start getting EUR bills this process will be returned in a different direction... but wait to see if it happens, but not some significant shifts are made in that sense. We also believe that a strong increase in the level of deposits as well as the level of loan approval is positive steps, positive events for Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the very 31st time, we were not at all concerned, even glad to see that the pace of the loan in BiH is increasing. And now at least we have to organize ourselves in case this rate continues to be a little bit of a concern for us. Much of the loans go into households, not the economy and current balance of payments, and we need to be aware of that. The first reason we didn't do this before is because we didn't consider this a problem, but we considered it a positive event for the economy. However, it is mostly positive for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we must prepare and organise in case it is no longer a positive move for BiH. We have I mean pretty precise figures about the amount of funds commercial banks keep in banks abroad. We get that information through the banking agency. Commercial banks give these data to the banking agency, the banking agency transfers it to us. About 1 billion right now. We have two main reasons why funds are held outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first reason is that commercial banks received that amount of money at such a rate that they were unable to grant loans at the same rate in BiH. The rate of credit approval growth was 70% last year. It wasn't fast enough to catch up with all those deposits that had been overrun in commercial banks. I think yet a certain amount of these funds will come from outside through this natural loan approval process. This year, you can see that the rate of loan approval increases faster than the inflow of deposits in commercial banks, that certain loans from this year will have to be financed by deposits they received last year. We hope that this process of bringing funds back into the country will be speeded up by paying the total funds held in the Central Bank in order to give them an alternative of state funds outside Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u424	Thank you, Nikola. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? I think Mr. nikol really explained what these amendments of the law mean. Wesaći make a statement about the procedure of this law. Who is it for the Law to be considered in accordance with Article 100(2)? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's being held back? - 1. Thank you. I conclude that with 13 votes for and 1 vote abstention we have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Wesaći make a statement about the text of the law. Who's to pass a law like this? Who's in? Unanimity 14 for. Thank you. I realize we've passed this law. 32 We move to the 9th point of the agenda. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposing the Council of Ministers, second reading. Adopted in the proposed text at the House of Representatives in the second reading at the 8th session of 4.2.2003. The home of the people was previously convened at the 24th session held in 5.9.2002. passed this Law with amendments incorporated into the text of the Law. The conclusion adopted by the House of Peoples is that a new amendment can be put in place. There's another reading coming up today. There were no new amendments to the proposed text of the Law. You've received a report from the committee in charge. Is anyone answering their word? Mr. Spasojević, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u425	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I have several objections, but the first comment is that we have entered into the new assembly of this House of Peoples in some procedures that have already been passed by MPs, or delegates, or delegates of the House of Peoples in their term of office. So, in fact, what we're going to do now is we're cutting deadlines in relation to the law as planned. So we are now, in fact, bringing this Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Article 99, by the first reading we did not participate in it, but we came to the final act. I have several objections, especially regarding these agencies. I have a general observation that all agencies have headquarters in Sarajevo. Why should all agencies that are assembled at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina be in Sarajevo. Why don't we make an example of it, here I come from Bijeljina in Bijeljina that agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u426	You want a place to stay?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u427	We will have a place to stay, or somewhere else near Republika Srpska, rather than all the agencies are staying in Sarajevo. Another remark I have. We're just passing laws here like we're in a cartoon, so to speak, we just stand there, and it all says here that we're going to hang all of this in fact on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina which we know is extremely small and 33 doesn't have its basic sources of funding, plus that here in this law says -- the height of these funds will be defined on the basis of the systemization rules. We know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Republika Srpska and the cantons there are these employment institutions, and let me justify that there is one such law at the level of Bosnia, but not that many such administrations. Who's gonna pay for it? I wanted to ask this Mr. Piter Nikola now, but I didn't want to ask for principle reasons, because for all these laws that were under article 100 I voted, I was abstentioned because I don't think that we as MPs should be just here a machine and we're voting some laws, because we are being denied the right to debate, to submit amendments and to make remarks. I wanted to ask him a question – does Mr. Piter nikol know that there is a huge pit in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has no bottom in which he goes between 4.5 billion and 5 billion dollars each year and never returns. How do you make up for that? The second question I wanted to ask, but I didn't want to ask for these principles, which is – how much in our Bosnia and Herzegovina every year is the money being printed and based on what parameters, or on what basis does it seem? So this law, too, is all I'm saying, is that this law is being passed, and everything is hanging on the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the end, we're going to make a little joke, put it in some joke to say that eventually we're going to transfer all funeral companies to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's how it's going to have to be. We haven't done that yet. It's a serious observation that they won't be able to break the budget this number of laws we're passing. I think, come on if laws are to be passed, but that's calculated not to keep going on and on about the growth of budgets that can't grow that much at this point. I read in the light of this, that we must follow international obligations from the domain of work and employment, etc. and I know about what the Employment Service was doing in that former Yugoslavia because our workers who went to temporary work abroad had to go through this central, or current agency. However, for this, we will wait until at least 2010, perhaps in 2013, when we are equal members of Europe, and I think that the adoption of such an agency has been done. In order for that to be set aside, and in particular I said at the beginning there is no idea how much funds we're going to allocate so that I'd like to know about how long this Bosnia and Herzegovina is going to take to allocate the funds later, means the way that it could work. Because if we start something, we have to have budget funds, or we have to have the resources to do it, that agency will be able to work. And the remark that I initially said to be a little bit of this, the headquarters of these agencies if we have to bring them to the seat in different cities and not to build up a bunch of administrations that are normally piled up in this Bosnia and Herzegovina. She's overwhelmed by the administration and she can't, she's going to choke herself. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u428	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Who else is answering for a hearing? Mr. Čengić, then we'll invite the proposing representative to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u429	Mr. Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u430	Answer the questions and present the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u431	It'd probably be simpler for me if I spoke after the proposing's representative, but since that's not the case, I'll be very brief. So I support this initiative and I support this law. However, it seems to me that this law lacks certain things in this text, so if the text is carefully read, the founder and the amount of funds of the founding role, or the amount of funds established by this agency, is not clearly stated. It seems to me that in this sense, it would be good for us to reach one conclusion, so in order not to slow down the process, I suggest that as a House we reach a conclusion that would read this way – it is asked by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit a draft law amending and supplementing the Labour and Employment Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina within 30 days of the date of publication of this law in the Official Messenger of BiH. So in those changes. 1. Who's the founder of the Agency? 2. The height of the founding role. The proposal, i.e. in an explanation of this bill, says that this amount of funding will be defined by the Rules of Procedure on the Systematization of Agency's Jobs, which is inappropriate and unusual in the case of the registration of such institutions. For this reason, in order to find a solution not to stop the adoption of this law, because it could now push the whole process back months, and the Agency is important, I believe that it is necessary to adopt the law in this text, but to require the Council of Ministers to immediately initiate amendments and supplement the law just so that, instead of rejecting this law today, we do not have the right to react through the amendment to give the Council of Ministers a task that, within the shortest period of 30 days, it proposes amendments and supplementing the laws which would allow these current shortcomings and ambiguities to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u432	I thank Mr. Čengić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u433	I'm in a position to give you, though not yet typed the text of this law, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u434	We'll handle it. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If I do not call on the proposing representative to explain the Law, i.e. to clarify, perhaps answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u435	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, there are many reasons, of course, for the adoption of such laws we had previously had one employment law that acted on other grounds with different administrative and other structures and you are well aware that the Council of Ministers Act has been passed by certain rules, has introduced certain standards that we need to change, apply to the termination of the work of some of the earlier institutions, including this Employment Office. The way to say the substitution of activities that are needed especially on the international agenda when it comes to coordination, mutual information, data etc. From health care through this office, so they should make these agencies. This is an attempt, therefore, on new grounds to fully establish a new agency. So that would be the basic reason. Therefore, international labour and employment obligations are regulated by international conventions and contracts adopted by Bosnia and Herzegovina or under review for ratification and conclusion. It should be pointed out that according to the provisions of Article 1. 1. The BiH Constitution, with the full continuity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as an entity in international law, provides for the retention of membership in international organisations. Bosnia and Herzegovina has preserved its membership in the international organisation of the IOR, as well as the international organisation. The IOR is responsible for the administration of basic international agreements dealing with labour issues. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of over 60 agreements. Under the IOR's founding agreement, participation is foreseen through unitary delegations funded by member states' governments under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, resulting in such a delegation forming and financing at the state level. Article 5 3.d. The presidency has the authority to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in international and European organisations and institutions. Closed quote. In order to do so, state representatives should have full access to all data relevant to reporting on decisions taken on work. According to Article 3.2b. Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution has a constitutional obligation to assist the state in this regard. Therefore, a special law should regulate issues in the field of labour and employment of interest for all Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state body in charge of 36 coordination and assistance from entities, as well as the continued provision of necessary data in order to meet Bosnia and Herzegovina's international obligations in the field of labour and employment. This law provides for the establishment of the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina as an independent administrative organisation, as it carries out activities directly needed to meet Bosnia and Herzegovina under that agreement. Other provisions contained in the Law. As for these particular dilemmas and questions, I think that, from this text of the law, it is, of course, that this founder of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I do not understand the question of what this stake means, the law predicts and I think. This is a founding act, so for that matter. And I would have had another similar to the previous in the Law technically this I would say the uncertainty that we eliminate it in a way that I would say lecturing mistakes. This law was given in procedure 3.6.2002, so before the adoption of the Council of Ministers' Law and on ministries and there, article 10 is spoken by this minister and two deputies. Now there is a minister and one deputy, so in this sense it is accepted as a lecturing practical error. So much for these clarifications.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u436	I thank the ministers. Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u437	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers and distinguished colleagues, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has discussed the draft law on the Agency for Labour and Employment as a competent commission and has concluded that it is going to this home for a further fate to be accepted. There was no amendment to the proposed text of this law. And just a personal one-thinking of this inquiry that we heard from our esteemed colleague, Čengić, and we heard it now is this, is founded by this law as an independent administrative organisation. The moment we adopt this law, when it is adopted by the House of Representatives in the same text, then the Agency was established. Until then, she didn't. So this is, the founding act is this law that we're going to bring, I believe, I believe today. It is foreseen here to finance, since it is the institution of the state, to finance from the state budget. It is, whenever a law is passed, it must also have sources of its funding, whether or not there are material obligations for this legislator when it is passed. Here, the legislator made it clear that there are these material obligations and that they will come from the budget, from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. Since this is point 9, if the chairman permits, I could say the same for point 10, point 11, point 12 and point 13, where there were no amendments on which the Constitutional and Legal Commission also discussed as a competent commission and proposed to this House to accept, in that sense, that it should decide on these proposals. 37 So this law on the Agency for Labour and Employment is further on the proposal for a law on enforcement before the Court of Justice of BiH, further on the proposal for a law on investigation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition, further under point 12 of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Plant Health and under point 13. Proposal for a law on the control of the quality of sustainable products on imports and exports. Since there have been no amendments I am free to say that this has been discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission as competent and leaves the further fate of the decision in this House. And points 14 and 15 will also be shown to be 16. The Constitutional and Legal Commission later.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u438	All right, Mr. Filipović, when we get to these points. I thank Mr Filipović, president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home. Here I go now, let me do it very briefly. Mr. Spasojević has asked one question here, so it's about our work. I'd just remind you of what we all know. At the beginning of our work at the first, second session, I don't know exactly, we adopted one conclusion, I'm going to try to say the most important part of this conclusion, so on our work when it comes to the laws that have been found in a certain degree of procedure, we're saying that we're returning all the laws to that stage that we can invest amendments on them, so we're acting in amendment. I've got that conclusion before me, and the same thing happened to this law. So we had time, and we could act according to that conclusion, in amendment to our will, by our MPs, or envoys to this text of the law. Now about the law itself, I wouldn't. The ones who thought they were supposed to talk were talking here. We also heard the position of the committee in charge. We heard the minister's clarification. I also believe that here is an explanation, a dilemma that has appeared – which is the founding act for this agency. The act is the law. So this law establishes this agency. The Founder is here we are, the ones who passed this law, i.e. Government, and we're actually passing the law. I think with these clarifications, the need to reach the conclusion proposed by Mr. Čengić stops and that we can go this way towards the adoption of this law. Another dilemma here was set. I won't answer her. No dilemma, one question, Mr. Spasojević, around the headquarters of the institutions. It's one topic that can be discussed, and I don't think it's convenient today, or this point may not be the right to talk about it, and it's certainly very interesting to open this question, perhaps, etc. But I wouldn't do it under this agenda. Okay. I suggest that we, if there are no more interested in the debate, bring this in. Yes, we heard the Commission's position, and I think we've solved all the dilemmas. 38 I suggest we approach the statement or vote on the law. So we're voting on the law? Who's to pass a law like this? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Abstained? 1. Thank you. I find that with 14 votes in favour and 1 vote with abstention this law was adopted in the text offered. Thank you. Now we move on to the next item of the agenda. Excuse me. There's an intervention. Since the House of Peoples, since this law is adopted in a different text than at the House of Representatives, we need to appoint a committee to bring the text of the laws into line. And let's have a commission right now, so this job of harmonising also. The home of the people in the former composition. The mustache you were in that meeting had certain amendments at its session of 5.9.2002 and the House of Representatives adopted this text at its 8th session of 4.2.2003 without amendments. And there's that difference, and now we're going to form a committee to bring these texts into line. And I support this proposal. Let's hear the suggestions. Okay. Here's Mr. Brka, Mr. Nada, and let's hear who Spajić're proposing? Mr. Filipović. Here's our names. So I suggest we appoint a committee composed of Mr. Brka, Mr. Filipović and Mr. Nada Radović. Who's in favor of a committee like this to comply with the text of the law? Who's against it? - One abstention? I thank and realize that with 12 votes for, 1 abstention and 2 against, we adopted a committee composed of Mr. Brka, Mr. Filipović and Mr. Nada Radović. I'd end up with the 9th point, move to the 10th point of the agenda. Are we gonna take a break or are we gonna take a break? Are we gonna get some rest, have lunch, or do we just keep working? Well then, we'll determine a half-hour break, that's enough for lunch. So 10 to 2 we keep working. 39 There's got to be a commitment. [[PAUZA]] Do you agree to make a small wheel of dots then? If no one's angry then yes, here's the deal we've agreed to make now a small number of agenda points. So, Ad. (?) The degree of fulfillment of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has towards the Council of Europe and other international institutions in 2003, Mr Ivanic, please explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u439	Dear MPs, I am really pleased to have the opportunity to tell you a few words about fulfilling Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitments to the Council of Europe. Bosnia and Herzegovina became a member of the Council of Europe on 24 April 2002. So it's practically an anniversary tomorrow. Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted a series of post-admission commitments to be met in very precise periods with the reception of this oldest organisation of European countries. A year after receiving the first series, two years or three after the reception and one part of the commitment must be carried out continuously. According to the Council of Europe list, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to meet a total of 73 post-accession commitments. Some of them are of political character and as such cannot have concrete deadlines for execution, but Bosnia and Herzegovina has an obligation to meet them continuously. The protection of human rights, the protection of national rights, the protection of national minorities, tolerance, democracy and a whole series of values on which Europe is based as a whole. So far, 21 obligations have been met from those that have been specified, and for 15 commitments 2 to 3 years after the reception. All obligations practically for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the first year of implementation after the first year of accession will be fully met if you ratify this Protocol today 12 and Protocol 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think it's a rare opportunity that Bosnia and Herzegovina once upon a time and without delay has fulfilled all its obligations. The presidency has already given its consent to the signing of a General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities, which was also a commitment in the first year and the authorised ambassador, Gaun, to sign it. And she'll be finished too. Which basically means that all the commitments we made for the first year are fulfilled and I think we can view it as a positive sign that all BiH institutions have done their part of the job as a whole. For the next two years, there's only one part of the commitment that needs to be done. I'm in the meantime, because part of things are constantly being inoculated, and I can maybe deliver some of the new documents to the commission, so that the commission has it and that it can follow it later. For the next period we need to give an emphasis on the Law on basic, basic and secondary education. You know that this law is, for the next year, an obligation already adopted on the 40 Council of Ministers and is referred to the procedure in Parliament and, as far as I know, it goes according to the regular procedure. I think he was being considered by the Representative Council yesterday. The law on immigration and asylum is the second law to be passed. He's also as familiar as I am with the parlamentary procedure. Law on the recognition of public documents. The law was once in the parliamentary procedure last year. He wasn't adopted, he was brought back to work. The law should go back to the Council of Ministers now, and I think it's the Ministry of Justice, I suppose, and civil affairs together to agree. And there's only one number of conventions left. I wouldn't want to burden you with what conventions we have to sign. It's those conventions we need to do. We are privileged to have these three laws that I believe we will succeed in this period to resolve that education laws should also apply to the BiH level, but also to the level of the entity, so that both should do so. I think that since we've made a precise plan when what needs to be done, we'll be able to reach those other obligations. Since it is in the agenda and membership in other international organisations, I must tell you that we are members and that we have activated our membership of many of the organisations in which we have been only formally. The big problem was the huge debts that had accumulated in the war before...the membership for not paying membership fees in those international institutions. The latest review is that somewhere around 2 million liquid debt is due to be paid. We've cut it down a lot. He was 8 million. The Council of Ministers' last meeting has made the same great effort to pay some of these backlogs, and I think that, in this area, opportunities will be significantly improved. So, as a whole, the post-accession commitment to the Council of Europe is going well. The commitment plan for the next year has been made. We're already on our way to procedure because part of the law is already being prepared and I think we're going to make it work, too. It would be good for us to do so as soon as possible. I've had so many chairmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u440	I thank Mr. Secretary. Mr. Čengić is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u441	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers for Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade of this House, endeavouring to monitor the obligations of the House and the overall Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it came to European integration, all but one who had obligations on another Commission, then representatives of the Office of the Council of Europe in Sarajevo with 41 Mrs. Mozer at the head, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Directorate for the European Integration of BiH. The meeting discussed the obligations ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are up to the Parliamentary Assembly and what should be done further. I would rather say what the Commission finally adopted as some basis for further work and where we expect, or propose to the House, to support these views and to transfer them to the competent institutions. We absolutely support everything that is, what needs to be done, and we feel that there is no reason, mostly, there is no reason for any more serious delays. On the other hand, we appreciate that a lot has already been done. In this respect, Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities so far are supported and are required to meet its obligations to the Council of Europe, but are required by competent institutions to speed up activities to meet those obligations in the coming period. We ask the competent institutions to fully comply with the deadlines set out in the list of commitments adopted by Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the admission into and after-received commitments to the Council of Europe. It is asked by the Council of Ministers, this is very interesting in our opinion, that the Council of Ministers is asked to propose measures to set the criteria for the implementation of tasks, for failure to carry out tasks and individual responsibilities for failure to fulfil obligations towards the Council of Europe and European integration. Namely, in order not to revolve around why we are responsible to the Council of Ministers to make it very clear criteria on what is meant by the accomplished and done task for each obligation individually, and then to establish and measure responsibility for the holders of these obligations so that we can in this way evaluate, or encourage, but also sanction work, or not work. The next item is – it is agreed that the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy at the House of Nations every 60 days organises meetings with the proposed, with institutions already present. Of course, we expect these meetings to be joined by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to carry out every 60 days an analysis of what has been done and the commitments that have been made before us and the last one – the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is asked to bring in all acts as soon as possible and to carry out all the activities necessary for the functioning of the Council of Ministers and its ministries in full capacity. It was found at this meeting that some institutions of the Council of Ministers still do not have rules on work, have not yet been fully established, and this slows down the implementation of the obligations of these institutions. For this reason, we use the opportunity, since Mr Ivanić is here as a member of the Council of Ministers to ask once more, and we ask the House to accept these suggestions and suggestions. Therefore, the Council of Ministers is asked to establish and enable full and appropriate work as soon as possible by the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, I would like to say that according to the information we had on April 14th, there was no obligation, so there was no document, law, convention or anything that was to be ratified in this house without being done. 42 So by that date, this house has fulfilled all its obligations and just as Mr Ivanić has now said if we adopt these proposed conventions today, which are on the agenda, then we will again as the House of Nations fully fulfil all the obligations we have. However, I will analyse everything that needs to be done, we have found that there are a number of documents and a series of actions and a series of activities that should be carried out by different bodies and bodies within Bosnia and Herzegovina and it would be very good if the Council of Ministers succeeds not only in carrying out its part of the obligations, but also in mobilising other institutions to carry out their obligations, and I understand that the Council of Ministers is nevertheless operational institution of all these activities and we believe that the information or plan of activity, priority plan of activity or activities, by priorities already organised by the Council of Ministers, should also be the basis of Mr. Chairman for the development of our home's work plan so that as a House, we can monitor all those obligations that stand before Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for other obligations and other activities, we also discussed Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations towards the UN, towards the European community. As far as I know most of the issues that we have received from the European community have already been discussed at all levels and the answers have been prepared and sent in time, which is very important in which Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this House played a significant role and we expect in this regard and in future full co-operation with the Council of Ministers, with the Ministry of Foreign Trade, with the Directorate for European Integration. Finally, we believe, but as very important that this House should take additional steps to properly and qualitatively present to the public other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the advantages of what it brings to comply with these obligations when it comes to membership in the Council of Europe in the European Community and other associations. We have the impression that, given that we have not yet carried out all our obligations, so often, we have the impression that we are a passive participant in the Council of Europe, according to the European community because we are constantly getting tasks, and we have no opportunity to respond to our views or to express our views or to be a subject. That is, in our opinion, above all, because we are still late in carrying out our duties. The moment we carry out our duties, then we will surely come into a position so that the subjects of all these institutions in full capacity and then the public will be able to see all the positive effects. In this regard, we think that it is very important to inform the public in time and systematically about the activities, but also about the meaning of these activities, when they happen once, when it has been implemented objectively for Bosnia and Herzegovina for its political position, for its economic position and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u442	I thank Mr. Čengić for the President of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. We heard. Who else is reporting for raps? Mr. Goenjac. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u443	Dear colleagues, dear Minister, I will have a discussion that goes a little far from this tone. Today, we have received an updated operational plan to meet the post-admission commitments with the date of 11 April. It was stated on page 1 that a total of 21 commitments have been met so far and that 21 commitments have been made. I think at the very least this, this list of these 21 obligations cannot be stated in the capacity to be fulfilled. Why? Point 8. – The adoption and implementation of amendments to the Constitution and the laws necessary to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. It has been stated that this has been fully fulfilled. I don't think this is fully fulfilled, and I think there's still a lot of work to be done here in one entity or another, from the level of the community through entities, cantons. I don't need to remind you. Today, the situation with the House of Peoples, representatives of the Serb people in the Federation, the structure in the authorities of both the authorities and the other and the third in one and the other entities is mentioned, and I do not think this obligation is met. This can, of course, be long-referenced for this opportunity I don't want to take up time, but this obligation is a big commitment. This obligation is an important obligation and I think that we should be particularly careful in assessing this issue, because this is a matter of crucial importance for all citizens and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for its entities and for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Point 9. To review, with the help of the Venice Commission, electoral legislation in light of the Council of Europe's standards and to revise it where necessary. Has the Venice Commission, in co-operation with representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent institutions, done this job? Did she do this job? Did she deal with this question? I don't know. I didn't see any documents from the Venice Commission expressing their position. But what I certainly know, at least two facts. We don't have a complete Electoral Law, and I think being a member of the Council of Europe to the entire Electoral Law is quite a discussion, and I think it's one of the obligations that this point implies. Where do we not have a complete Electoral Law? We don't have a complete Electoral Law right in the chapter that speaks of us. So to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Election Law was left to be resolved after the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina decision, and until then there is only a sentence in the Election Law that the House of Peoples will be elected in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For election law, that's not enough. The electoral law must specify the choice of delegates, the procedure for replacing them, etc. and a series of other questions that are. So, the fact is, we don't have a complete Electoral Law. I don't think we have the Electoral Law in line with the standards of the Council of Europe, or European standards. Why? European standards undoubtedly include the Convention on Human Rights 44 and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as a Copenhagen document that regulates universally equal voting rights. The Convention on Human Rights, of course and fundamental freedoms, regulates the issue that all citizens should have an electoral right guaranteed among those political rights. The right to be elected, the right to be elected, as well as a Copenhagen document saying that each voter must have universally equal voting rights. Everyone must be able to be chosen and elected in the constituency. So both active and passive voting rights. Due to the objective situation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the clashes with the Convention on Human Rights and individual solutions in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Electoral Law left some questions at the very least to say unclearly and therefore the need for the Venice Commission to review the Election Law and compare it with the standards of the Council of Europe. Until then, the Election Law, respecting the need for compromise, adopted solutions on the political scene that violate both the Convention on Human Rights and the Copenhagen document on universal voting law. We have a situation that in one entity one people, and in another entity two peoples cannot be elected to significant positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It disrupts, it's contrary to the standards I think the Venice Commission is treating. So, I'm expressing here the reserve and the remark, I think these two obligations, the first one certainly isn't complete, for this second one I don't have any indicators, I have no reports, I have no facts that can convince me that this obligation is fulfillment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u444	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to take your word for it? No more reports. We have conclusions. Is there anyone who needs to know about Gospodin Spasojević? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u445	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I wouldn't be talking globally about whether or not everything has been fulfilled precisely. It is normal that we, or it is not normal because we are the specific country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is composed of two entities and three peoples, and we cannot in all the papers, or in all the laws to be the way all the peoples in Europe would want to be, because we are, in some sense, specific because we are from the Dayton Agreement, so the Dayton Agreement gave us some frameworks, gave us a way that we will function in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I wouldn't have spoken to Mr Ivanic and I agree with him that we are about meeting our obligations for this year here at the end. Maybe there are two or three conventions left that we need to adopt, and that's what we'd do for this year. So we need to have some continuity that will go next year that what we are scheduled for next year and that next year we are monitoring how the Council of Europe, or the EU, has set up for us in the next few years, so that we have to meet it in order to be full members and Council of Europe, or the EU. 45 Regarding these concrete conclusions made by the commission. I agree with some conclusions, but with someone I would have had some kind of change, so I will specifically move on to these conclusions that this committee has proposed to this home to adopt. As regards the first of this conclusion, there are no objections to it, or the first paragraph – to support the activities so far in order to fulfil the obligations. I don't have any objections. As far as the second paragraph is concerned, I think it is an irrevocable word – we are asking the competent institutions. It is necessary for competent institutions to fully execute. That's my point about this second conclusion. As far as the third conclusion is concerned, the Council of Ministers is asked, and I have a lot of objections here, because I think the conflict of jurisdiction, what the Council of Ministers is, or what is asked of the Council of Ministers. We know that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency and the foreign minister, they represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in some ways, and some of the authorities are being violated there. And especially with regard to individual responsibility, because as far as I know, we're going to enter the Union of Europe maybe in 2010, maybe in 2013, and we're going to ask for some individual responsibility from someone who didn't do something. I don't think that's what we're looking for as a home, and it's not our jurisdiction to ask for it. We, as a Dom, are making certain, or confirming certain conclusions and laws, and I think this is, as far as I'm concerned, this entire paragraph should be deleted. As far as the commission is concerned, I don't mind if she sits down and organizes it, it's good. And this final conclusion is asked by the Council of Ministers. I think that's where we get mixed up in the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has its own programme of work and will, on the basis of its own programme, bring in its statutes, fill in its own. We can only appeal to them that, in some way, the deadlines that the Council of Ministers needs to respect that he respects it, and that this is exactly how we ask that they bring the acts. It is normal for the Council of Ministers to bring in its acts. So finally me with these conclusions, I would suggest that we have a special session to bring to. I think the conclusion is some minor form that we as the House of Peoples have the right to make a resolution. In particular, we should address one congregation regarding these receptions, or meeting their obligations. To make a single resolution that we will commit to all of this resolution and thus end as far as last year and all the coming years are concerned, and it will be for a long time, because we will not be accepted into the Council for much longer, that is, the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u446	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Is anyone picking up? Mr. brkati. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u447	The Honorable President, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, when these topics come to the session, then threatens to turn some things around, and I think we should be the ones here to initiate certain solutions. That's what the commission was thinking in unanimity at our last session when we came to these conclusions, which was expanded. Mr. Čengić just spoke, I'm not going to say it again. And we really felt that these conclusions needed to bring a little more order into all the bodies representing the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was our good intentions and good desire to mean knowing who hairs and who wears water and who will be responsible for something that hasn't been done. We want with these conclusions to actually know responsibility if something is not done. Who's responsible for that? If I need it here in Parliament in the House of Representatives and here in the House of Peoples to pass the law, we are obliged to bring it to state level, then that law must be prepared. Who's preparing it? Who puts it on time? Why don't we get it here in time? That's why someone's responsible. And it was I who suggested at that session of this conclusion that individual responsibility be resolved institutionally through the system. That someone can't be a minister for three years, four years, two years, and that during his ministry, there's a dozen laws missing, so that the state can function normally. That's why I suggested this, and it was then adopted unanimously on the committee. I can accept that, Mr. Spasojević may have an objection to this, but for these are facts, very strong arguments to seek individual responsibility. The communists were hiding behind a shared responsibility. You know. They bring it to the collective and they're all real and they're all guilty. I'm not for all of us to be real, and we're all guilty, but to know who needs to do what. If he doesn't, it's his fault. It's not society, it's his fault, because he's the head of that society to do it. I really think it's one step forward in the functioning of the system in our people's heads. We need to get rid of the collective as soon as possible, and we need to represent the individual responsibility. I think that's true, and that's why I suggested this conclusion. That's one thing. And the other one. We know what the Dayton Constitution is. But we also know that there is something that is above the Dayton Constitution and what Dr Genjac insisted it is, in fact, that we respect these top criteria that Europe has. No, to the detriment of any citizen of one single, or to the harm of any nation in this country, but to the benefit of every citizen and every nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u448	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Čengić wants to do it again. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u449	Respecting Mr. Spasojević's views and probably supporting his principled approach to this problem, I would just like to make a brief explanation. So we as a commission have the right to draw conclusions and to propose these conclusions, as others have the right to accept them or not to accept them and to have their views. The second, avoiding our intention to determine the rules of conduct, we have seen one thing. According to the very clear information and expressions we had during this meeting, it was said – membership in the Council of Europe exists. It may be sanctioned in terms of various types of objections, etc. for failure to comply, but can also be sanctioned by a member of the Council of Europe for failing to comply. How we had a large number of obligations that, due to the structure and organisation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Dayton Constitution, they had a large number of institutions involved in the implementation of these obligations. We did not dare to define the criteria of what it means to be executed, not fulfil the obligation, but we simply suggested to the Council of Ministers that it should work out the criteria by which it would determine when and at what level a commitment was made. Here we had the opportunity to listen to very different estimates of the same thing from two people who represent two institutions, so Mr. Minister as a member of the Council or Council of Ministers and Mr. Genjac as a member of this home who, for example, have a different view of the same thing. It is, of course, possible in the future, and it will happen. In order not to prejudge, so that we do not come into a position to appreciate who has committed or who has failed to perform the obligations, we suggest at the beginning of the road, now at the beginning of this process, or still at that early stage of implementation of the Council of Ministers' obligations to define the criteria by which one will be able to define exactly what someone has done, what he has not done, and who, who, which institution, which level has not fulfilled some obligation. That's all. No more than that. Of course, that will help all those who are in a chain of obligations to identify and solve it. As for this other one, your other remarks, Mr. Spasojević, may not have been able to experience what we have experienced here with a very plastic. We had a very valuable lady, I think it's called Ramnjak, the representative, is she, the representative of the Directorate for European Integration, who made it very clear - you know gentlemen we can do more, but our basic problem, today, we don't have a regulation on the organisation of the Directorate and we can't schedule and we can't give jobs and jobs, we just don't have rules, so what we do is what we do. We don't have enough employees yet, etc. At the same time, you also know that some ministries are newly established, precisely in this session, such as the Ministry of Justice or the Justice, such as the Ministry of Security, that there has been a change in certain responsibilities, seizing or 48 additions of competence to existing ministries, which should all be regulated by the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure on the organisation of the work of these institutions. Mr. Spasojević's only reason, so the reason why we went with this proposal is to suggest to the Council of Ministers that these problems, i.e. those obligations, should be implemented in order to actually fulfil the real obligations, because it is not our job to organise the Council of Ministers. It is the work of the Council of Ministers, but it is our obligation to fulfil our obligations to the Council of Europe, to the European Community and to all other institutions that we cannot do alone, but in collaboration with the Council of Ministers that should be organised. In that sense, I will be very clear here, very clear and I mean completely in the letter and the spirit and the Constitution and the authority of the Parliamentary Assembly that has the obligation to oversee the work of the Council of Ministers and in this sense we have the right to suggest, we have first to propose. We can make a mistake, of course. There were no other intentions here but simply to confirm on our part, therefore, that we have seen this problem and that we need to solve it as soon as possible when it comes to the Council of Ministers' organisation so that we can all continue to function together and carry out our obligations. I do not think and have any reason for anyone to experience how we take the competences of the Council of Ministers, as we are tutor to the Council of Ministers, but at the same time there is no reason why Parliament has no right and no obligation and does not fulfil its obligation to deliver its views on the issues for which it is responsible, including jurisdiction in the work or co-operation with the Council of Ministers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u450	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u451	The foreign ministry is only a speaker on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina before the Council of Europe. Much of these things are not actually in the power of the Ministry, but other bodies, and this is a picture of ourselves in front of European institutions. But I honestly think there's a need to have in this, as I would say, a realistic approach. I mean something in particular. The fulfillment of our obligations must be brought into line with a moritoring team that comes before the Council of Europe every 3-4 months. Then they make a report that goes before the Council of Europe that says very precisely what is done, what is not, what is partly, what has been given a passing grade and what needs to be done further. And there'll be more of that. There's a regular inventory going on, and that's what's gonna happen. The last team here was here at the end of February and early March. Part of these assessments that are considered fulfilled, here I am trying to say part of what Mr. Genjac was saying, he received their passing assessment, not now but earlier than the time when the constitutional amendments were adopted directly, and when they were done and as soon as the implementation stands, it will certainly be a review of the next analysis, the next review. I know that there are different views in Bosnia and Herzegovina with regard to the fact that there were certain political structures that did not support such a form of amendment, he felt it was not complete. I know there are different views about that. But from the point of view of what has been done a good part of the European institutions thinks that 49 things have been done and that they have been moved and that they can be considered positive compared to what was, the multiethnic government, I don't know a different timetable of judicial functions. A far different structure of the obligation to adapt the administration to the '91 census and has that sentence – implementation. It will certainly be the subject of an evaluation and the subject of analysis every time. This was more about the kind of legal acts that were passed. I also agree that additional additions should be made around the Electoral Law. At this point it was a condition for eliminating those, as they are called temporary rules, I think they were then and that by passing the law they were thought to have received certain elements and that we had them. And I think that this initiative that has set out to give the Council of Ministers a commitment under the Election Law and to enter certain adjustments should contribute to what is being said here. Personally, I find it really this way that it's quite serious to approach the ministries all over this business, and I didn't expect it to be done for this first year, here it is done, regardless of what was a long period of lack of activity due to the election period. I think that these other obligations that we have in the act of law and convention will be able to complete much earlier, because we have practically already entered into their procedure, but it remains this part of these other obligations that are permanent, continuous, which are the question of the obsessing, the subject of various other institutions, which are our regular obligation. With the acceptance of what the code was about, especially Mr. Genjac that there are still things to talk about, it is basically a political issue within BiH. I do, however, think that during this period, the BH institutions have made a significant step with enough seriousness to approach the implementation of these things. One part of the conclusion is, of course, I have no intention of getting involved in it, because it's a question of this home how to commit, but just a few information. We all have an obligation now to enforce the rules of organization. And not a single rule on, since as vice president, it wasn't because he wasn't prepared. The council is ready to do it. The foreign ministry will finish its rules I hope in the next 10 days, we are already in other consultations with the Presidency about the network of diplomatics outside. We hope these new ministries will have it in the next 20 days and I think that we will have it all practically completed that month, adopted at the institutions, and I agree that it is one big, big reform of the Council of Ministers, since it has also received a larger number of ministries and now it has wider powers and will have a larger structure of employees. It's really a serious reform that needs to be approached adequately, but I think it's coming to an end and we're going to have it relatively quickly. The Directorate for European Integration is a new institution which has been given considerable importance, as it should be the one that will technically lead this part of the talks with European institutions and will practically see all the laws in order to comply with the European directives from now on. It therefore needs to be prepared and I hope that it will succeed because there is political agreement in this I do not see any difference towards this general European orientation. 50 As far as the conclusions are concerned, you know that, as far as the ministry is concerned, the ministry will be available to the commission, not only when there are obligations, but when the commission requests it, we were at the first request in full and we will be in the future whenever the commissions look for both homes. I'd ask you to let me, if there's no more that I can leave. I think I'm gonna have to have a meeting with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u452	Okay. I thank the minister. Okay. Here I think so. Is there anyone else who can answer the question? If not, let's end this. We'll see how. In fact, our commission offered conclusions. We've heard certain remarks on these conclusions, and I don't know if they're concrete, or if we don't have...to accept the conclusions. Then we can only accept this information about the degree and fulfillment of our obligations, and if we are in the mood to adopt conclusions. Well, here's to test before the mood is declared so we don't get into any revotes, either. Here we have two ways, gentlemen who have been a little bit restrained to hear if there are any further explanations, comments, requests or suggestions so that we can still get out of this uniquely. I don't think we should. Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u453	I don't think anyone suspects any good intentions. There are indeed good intentions of the commission here. For me, let's face it, it's only the last proposal, the last conclusion that we're bound to do, now I don't have a paper ministry to come up with work plans. I think it's, that it's coming out of competence and commission, and I think that that way we'd let the public know that we actually feel that our ministries are inconclusive. The final conclusion is that I propose that it be deleted -- it is asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to bring its acts as soon as possible and to carry out its activities necessary for the functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers and its ministries in full capacity. I think so. ________(?) Do we understand what that applies to? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] 51 We understand each other completely, from the vice president, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u455	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u456	Thank you, Mr. Milojević. Wait a minute, I'd like to ask you to stick to the line, to answer the phone for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u457	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u458	If I may have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u459	Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u460	So be careful what it's about. I am so that we who represent most of the political parties made up of the Council of Ministers protect and help our council of ministers. But I'm not so that responsibility spills and spills and doesn't know what to do and within what time. Let me be very clear. So personally, I'm speaking for myself right now, and we have a situation that's been 30 days. We have a situation that no ministry has finished this job yet, and everyone is doing it. We can get into a situation where tomorrow the public, anyone else, calls us that we're not actually doing our job, that we haven't even warned. We are no longer asking the Council of Ministers, but warning the Council of Ministers that they should do so. What they were actually supposed to do on their own. We haven't even asked any specific responsibility about it. But if we take that right away from ourselves, gentlemen, to warn the Council of Ministers that they should do the job that the law provides, then we are not doing our job, we are not doing our job. On the other hand, this can only be of benefit to the Council of Ministers, no harm done. I'll be glad, be careful, to understand, about the formulations in terms of whether or not it's a little bit of a thing, there's no problem. Any formulation can be changed. I just want us to understand each other's views in terms of what our attitudes are. So the only motive we went with this 5th point was to draw attention to the Council of Ministers to speed up these activities that are already under way for some different stages. Now, as far as this attitude is concerned, Mr. Spasojević, since you've had an objection to attitude 3, may I hear your suggestion as you think it should be 52 because you said you should delete it. I said it again. Be careful what it's about. It's just that this is one job involving a really amazing lot of institutions, and I'm not talking to a lot of individuals right now. It really is. It's just like that. That's how it has to be. If there is no instrument, if there is no criterion under which we value that something has been done or has not been done, or that someone has done or has not done something, then we come to a situation that we are all equally responsible for non-execution. Tomorrow we will be in a situation you in front of your voters, me in front of your voters, the Council in front of those who supported it, we will come into a situation that as we do not know who should have done something about who should have done it. In that sense, we haven't said for a moment that we're setting the criteria. We didn't say we'd check it out. The other way around. We have proposed to the Council of Ministers targeted because by the number of commitments, the largest number of obligations falls under the Council of Ministers. We have proposed that the Council of Ministers only draw up criteria that determine what has been done, what has not been done and that the Council of Ministers only sets out measures to determine whether someone, an institution or an individual has done it or not. If you have a proposal to improve the text I will be happy to hear and accept everything that is improving the text. Of course, you know the formulations are formulations. These are the intensities. It seems to me, therefore, that on the commission itself by the present members of the commission all views were simply unanimously accepted as a tendency. And if it's a formula, go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u461	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Milojević again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u462	So here's a very short one. You convinced me by argumenting this final conclusion, but I would still separate it from the context of these other conclusions to be like a special conclusion to the House. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u463	I thank Mr. Milojević. _________ [[Common discussion]] Okay. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u465	I'm sorry, but I'm a little surprised that I can now seek individual responsibility from the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. How can I tell? And in this Council, we ask the Council of Ministers to lay down the criteria to punish the Presidency. Well, yes, the Bureau is in charge of foreign policy in the Constitution. I've read it, deny me if you don't. And in that case, we can't ask 53 to go in like this, at least to look for a break or to make a different formulation so that we can accept it, and in this form I won't accept it. I don't know about others. As far as this is concerned, we're looking for this, let's do this in this last paragraph, and let's say, we appeal, because it's illogical that I'm going now to get into the Council of Ministers whether it's that, or in every ministry, whether it's my rule. In front of me, we need the President of the Council of Ministers here to say whether the Council of Ministers works or not. If it doesn't work, we change it, or we suggest the House of Representatives because we can't even change it, we don't confirm it. So we're suggesting that he finishes the work he's supposed to do in his ministry, which is to adopt regulations and other acts that the Council of Ministers will function on. And this third conclusion, I'm really looking here for a break on behalf of the club to agree and to come up with a proposal on how exactly we're going to say it, and then we're going to get to the bottom of it. And if that can't be the problem, that's the problem. Because here I think we're really getting into jurisdiction that we don't have the right to. We can't ask for individual responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u466	Thank you. Mr. Filipović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u467	Madam Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I'd take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u468	I'd like some attention from the envoys. Mr Filipović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u469	Here's very short on where we're stuck. I think there is a solution to this with regard to these proposed conclusions and to the conclusion, I am talking about the conclusion in paragraph 3. I think one fact has been ignored that there are two laws that give rise to the obligation to adopt general acts that regulate the responsibilities of the officers of the tenants who carry out certain obligations in the real estates of the state administration. One of them is the Ministry Act, which accurately determines who does what and imposes sanctions on those who do not comply with the prescribed obligations. The second law is the State Service Act, which is also, it is a fresh law imposed by the High Representative, I don't know if it has passed in both homes, but it is also regulated by the unhappiness of those we possibly want to sanction with this third sentence and we are seeking individual responsibility through this conclusion. I would personally be if this were rephraseed so as to re-falsify it, perhaps to say that it is asked by the Council of Ministers to apply the prescribed measures of responsibility from the general 54 acts of non-compliance, etc. as it stands, and thus we have satisfied what the Commission has been looking for. At the same time in the next paragraph, if this is a solo solution. In the fourth paragraph, we have nowhere here, here I can be the free Commission, with my powers, forgot something else, that the Joint Commission has formed both homes for European integration. That both homes have determined the conclusion of a certain obligation under which the joint commission of both homes must behave. Among them are certain things that are required here to accept this home. It would not be bad to rephrase this item 4 of this conclusion, so let us not forget that there is a common commission of both homes for European integration. And I don't think it's a good idea for this home in this form, since it's the Council of Ministers of the Council that has the support of both homes, this is how this conclusion is served, even though we've heard the reasons why the rules of procedure aren't in the internal structure. It was probably this and some reason why the Council of Ministers didn't do it within a certain period, but I don't think they swore they wouldn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u470	Thank you. Mr. Šiljegović. Then Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u471	Mr. President, dear colleagues, I think we're a little short, maybe we can get out of this without a break. In this conclusion, we said no one had any objections. Under the second conclusion, the delegate is ours instead of the words – required to insert the word – it is necessary. I think Mr. Čengić as a pronoun that he can go through with it. In the third conclusion, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is asked to propose measures to establish criteria. Here we might throw out the criteria for our obligations and throw out these individual responsibilities, and here our delegates will accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u472	Here's Filipović made a good proposal. To appeal to the law
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u473	Under the fourth conclusion, here's another compromise. It is agreed that the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of Peoples and the Commission of both homes for European integration, including now and yours, means I cross that, every 60 days, organises a meeting with the institutions responsible for monitoring and fulfilling the obligation to the Council of 55 Europe and the EU. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't cross this off here right now and not get a conclusion that pleases the commission of this house and doesn't ruin the intensities of the joint commission of both homes. And under the fifth conclusion, Mr Spasojević proposed instead of saying -- it is wanted -- he is appealing to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring all acts as soon as possible. It can be inserted here in the light of the fact that the legal deadline has already passed. So it can also be placed there, carrying out all the activities necessary for the functioning of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and its full capacity ministries. And I think we could get out of this without a break that's going to be asked for 10 minutes, so it's going to be 20 etc. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u474	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u475	So as far as these suggestions are concerned, I'd just try to sum this up for a little bit right now. They're basically absolutely acceptable. There's no one around first. It's about this other one instead of being asked to be nosy. It's perfectly acceptable, there's no reason. Number 3. I suggest that instead of now wasting time on formal definition of text, we use the stenogram and take from the stenogram the definition that Mr Filipović has proposed. I think she's the simplest one because I'm referring to the laws. We are calling for existing laws and there is no need to add or subtract, but simply put this appeal to the law in the context of these obligations. Nothing more. As for the 4th Mr. Šiljegović, allow me a little controversy here. I say to Gospodie Šiljegović, let me know, there's no problem, around this point 4. Just a short controversy. So we have not forgotten that there is a joint commission of both homes to monitor the implementation of these obligations. However, this conclusion concerns the essence of our commission, not the House as a whole. So this fourth point is within 60 days. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. So this only concerns the Commission for Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade. Why? Because according to the current Rules of Procedure, we have obligations that we cannot give up while the Rules of Procedure is in force. When a new Rules of Procedure is made in which some of these things will possibly be organised differently, a committee of the House may be formed to monitor these European integration issues. Let me, let me, I still know what I'm talking about, and you forgive me, so look at the Rules of Procedure. 56 At this time, there is a Rules of Procedure which defines the Commission's obligations to foreign and trade policy, and within that, it is defined that these are also the obligations of foreign policy towards the Council of Europe, according to the European Community, towards the UN and a series of other international institutions. As a committee, we cannot release ourselves from these obligations while the Rules of Procedure is in force. So as a commission, we have proposed to all those present at the last meeting that, as a commission every 60 days, we have one meeting that will probably be shorter and shorter each time, on which we will simply do an analysis of what is done and an analysis of the commitments that follow so that, on behalf of the House, from our point of view, we can follow those obligations and present them to the House. So this isn't Dom's obligation, it's just the commissions. And in my opinion, it doesn't rule out the activity of others at all, nor is it in conflict with other commissions. As far as the fifth point is concerned, I absolutely agree to change, to accept Mr. Spasojević's proposal to put in place instead – it is sought, - it is appealed and to really mention this fact that, given that the 30-day legal deadline has already expired. So I suggest that we adopt these conclusions in this way, and the very text of the conclusions, looking at the stenogram that is already, which will be available to you for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u476	Thank you. Mr. brkati, then Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u477	Just one thing to explain. All of this we've been looking for is a solution I agree with all these solutions. It's a repair of actually existing text. The only thing I don't agree with is that we throw out the individual responsibility. I can never agree with that. I'll never agree. You can outvote me, but until we're in this country, we realize that in every business there must be a responsibility and an individual, we'll tap into the place. For that reason alone, I will always advocate individual responsibility in any job or ministry. There's no one holy cow here that we can't touch him if he's a minister. If he's not doing his job, we can say it - you got it and you should've done it, you didn't do it, sir. I am to remain an individual responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u478	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u479	Well, I apologize for putting this together in some way, but I have consulted some advisers and others there, and I would suggest that this third point is, I think, a third position of 57 - the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers will propose measures and activities to carry out and monitor obligations towards the Council of Europe and the EU. So they're going to propose, and they're going to follow, and we're here to monitor whether they're doing it or not. A brief and clear statement of everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u480	Okay. Here I think we've agreed, because this, more or less, was a little bit of a fix, so it's not. So I think that in the end we can end up here according to what's being said here, we can make a conclusion that we'll all agree on. Here I am in the end, but in order to really be one technical correction in this conclusion, under the number 3 and 4 where it is said -- obligations towards the Council of Europe and the EU. So this, the EU needs to replace words like there is above in the introduction of this text, meaning other international institutions. So instead of the EU being as it says, and so, the title says, so is the title document, etc. So this is quite a clean technical repair to be as the document bears the title. The same applies to the same EU in point 4. So it's just a purely technical repair. And that means this fifth conclusion or the attitude we separate as special with this formula new that we've heard here. Now, with these repairs, can we adopt these conclusions? Who's in? Thank you. Unanimity. 13 and I realize we've adopted the conclusions unanimously. That's what we're done with this point. We're going back to our next point. Because we've been done a little bit now. So that's 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on enforcement proceedings before the Court of BiH, a proposal for a Council of Ministers, a second reading of the House of Representatives held at the 11th session of 9.4.2003 adopted the Law in the proposed text. Now we have the second reading. There was no amendment to the proposed text of the Law. We've received a report from the commission. Is there? Here, I would like to invite the motionary's representative to give us a brief explanation of the law, that is. 58 NO ONE THANKS MR. PRESIDENT. I would welcome all the ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber and I would say, therefore, that all the procedures of this draft law have passed before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that so far there have been no amendments or objections and other than what has been adopted by the House of Representatives, I must say that the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Nations has therefore adopted this text without any objection and I suggest that you adopt it. And this is one of the obligations in all of these integrations, and I'd use this pay phone a little bit to say, so just something about the previous point. Those are the deadlines for the adoption of the rules, etc., but I must tell you that the Council of Ministers has encountered some insurmountable obstacles that had to be addressed in the meantime. There was absolutely no infrastructure that would allow the regulation to be made. It's about the next one. In order to even the rule-making practice, we first had to make a decision on the principles of the internal organisation to have a regulation for all to work. Secondly, a decision on the business of basic activities and auxiliary technical affairs so as not to write it like this, this one, these conditions, these conditions. And it's slowed down a little bit, here's four days past the deadline, but it's not a pre-pulsive deadline, so I have to say one more thing. It's not just this problem, it's the problem of a major discrepancy between the rules that are in force. That's it. Thank you. Okay. I thank Mr. Niki. We heard an explanation. A little bit for these deadline breakers, too. I think this is even to understand. However, it also remains an obligation to do this as soon as possible. Is there anyone to report for a debate on the bill? There isn't. I suggest we make a statement about the law. Who's for the adoption of this law? Who's in? Thank you. I find it unanimous with 13 votes to pass this law. We move to the next point, adopt the Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on fulfillment, on interrogation, on pardon, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition, the first reading by the Council of Ministers of BiH, was adopted by the House of Representatives in the second reading at the 12th session of the 22nd session. yesterday with an amendment to Article 6. 59 You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the Law in accordance with Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is founded. There was no amendment to the proposed text of the Law. Who's answering for a word? Here, Mr. Genjac asked what I'm about to ask. I call upon the motionary's representative to explain the text of the law, the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u482	He's not the Department of Foreign Trade.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u483	Yes, it is. I think so. You're our dicker here today. Mrs. Zdenka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u484	I'll welcome all present representatives. I'm in front of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. These three laws, which are now in order, mean under regular 11th, 12th and 13th, are this law on examination, stamping and marking, the Law on Plant Health and the Law on the Control of the Quality of Certain Products. I wish I didn't go out three times all of a sudden. So all three laws have been in line for a long time with the entity's competent authorities. This law on the protection of plant health is also in line with the EU's 13 directives, it is in line with the entity agriculture ministries. The Quality Control Act is in line with the entity trade ministries and we heard from the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there were no amendments under these laws and I would suggest that you adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u485	Here, I would like to thank the motionary's representative. Is anyone answering for a hearing? If I don't suggest we plead who it is so that we can pass this law in our first reading? Who's in? Unanimity. 14 for. We've respected Mr. Neimarli, who's out of place. Since there were no amendments, and the Law was adopted by the House of Representatives, I suggest that we consider the Law in a second reading. Yes, it is. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Unless I suggest we make a statement. Mr. Genjac. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u486	As far as I've seen in the report from the last session of the House of Representatives, the House of Representatives has passed this law with one amendment. If we're going to go to another reading, I suggest we show up as amendment promoters to adopt it, so as not to adopt a commission or another variant to adopt it in another reading at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u487	No, let me tell you the amendment, it's past our amendment deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u488	Here's the secretary here to interpret our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u489	Now there's a state of any other reading, going to a compliance committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u490	Well, it's the same. _______ When did the deadline go? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u491	It is time for the hearing to be concluded on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u492	To make an amendment. No, not in the Rules of Procedure which article it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u493	They only have two cases, if the envoy is unsatisfactory with the rejected amendments on the commission and if new amendments have been made on the commission. Since there were no amendments to the commission
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u494	Yes, but the commission was considering the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u495	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u496	61 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u497	You're wrong, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u498	The Commission has two phases, as well as Dom has two phases. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u499	There isn't. The Commission has a fact-finding session of 30 days, the committee responsible. The deadline was up and after 30, the committee was under review. He's got a report from the commission. It's not a shortened procedure. It was a regular phase, it passed. Another thing someone didn't submit the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u500	Here's an interpretation of the meaning of the secretary. He was invited to interpret the Rules of Procedure, or we interpret it, and the secretary here represents
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u501	Here's a report from the commission, as the committee responsible has considered it and there has been no amendment. And that, the deadline's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u502	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u503	There isn't. There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u504	Why do we need another reading? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Why do we need another reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u505	If there is an adname to the debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u506	I know. But you have no right to bear them. How?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u507	You could have submitted the amendments to the commission. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u508	Until the commission's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u509	You obviously don't want to understand what Zoran is saying. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Zoran says if the commission, if there's a first reading...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u510	Mr. Secretary thinks he has a need and that it's necessary to clarify this, part of the procedure, means how much he has the right to invest the amendments and what else is reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u511	Let me tell you something. The first phase is to consider the Constitutional and Legal Committee from the aspect of constitutionality and consent with the laws. It's the first phase of 15 days. After that, the expiry of that period of 15 is the second phase on the competent commission- the deadline is 30 days. The amendment could also be proposed by the end of the debate on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u512	Is this the second session of the commission? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u513	Yeah, competent commissions. Yes, it is. First it was competent as a constitutional and ustavno-pravni committee and then it was constitutionally-ustavno-pravni, pardoned by the Constitutional and Legal Committee and later it was the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the competent commission. And those are all deadlines. It's 89. I think the deadlines for that amendment were deadlines and it was indicated in a letter to all the envoys that the amendments should be delivered by then. And since there was no amendment, the commission submitted a report indicating it. And this is for first and second reading. And that's if it repeats the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u514	Now what's the way out of not adopting in different texts and not having this joint commission where I am again? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u515	Let me tell you 63.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u516	Let's say we adopt it in the same form as the House of Representatives adopted it. There. And I think the team ended all the problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u517	We can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u518	We can't. I think the promoter is in this case of the Council of Ministers and we plead on their text, not the text of the House of Representatives, or our committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u519	You see, the essence of this whole, what the Secretary of the Jadranko is saying is the fact that I can't invest the amendment after the committee in charge has done its job, except in these two cases that have been said here, and that's to discuss the amendments. So if there were no amendments there are no later amendments after the Commission's report. And that's what this article 89 says.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u520	By the end of the debate at the commission __________ It's not in this text. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Oh, it's said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u522	Mr. Brka wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u523	I ask you, please, professional services to explain to me, I see this house here is ready to pass this law as soon as possible. I see it. All MPs are for that. What's the outcome of not waiting a year for us to get the law, if the House of Representatives is in another reading, adopted in the second text with one amendment. What's the way out? Don't let us have the law for a year now. What's the way out? Tell me the way out. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u524	There's a way out. Here is point 3. sub a) when referring to new aspects which the Commission could not take into account or let's say that this committee could not have taken into account it had no such amendment and we can do it here now in this way. Here's the only thing that can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u525	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u526	Therefore, point 3(a) – after the debate has started, the chairman will, in consultations with the vice-presidents, apply the new amendments only in the following cases. Therefore, under (a) when it concerns new aspects which the Commission could not take into account or when it seeks to agree on two or more proposals on which the debate is being held. Okay, we don't have one of our own, except. Okay. So there is a business possibility, and there is a will here to do so, so that we, the amendment to the House of Representatives, accept as our amendment and end the whole business.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u527	The words 'entity' are added in Article 6 paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u528	Okay. Did you? Now I call upon the envoys to plead with me on the amendment? Who's up for the amendment? - 13 for it. Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? - Two abstentions. Thank you. I find that we have adopted an amendment read here with 12 votes in favour and two abstentions. Wesaći make a statement about the law with this amendment. Who's in favor of this law with this amendment? Who's in? - Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously passed this law with the amendment. 65 we're done with the 11th point. We're moving to agenda 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a law on the protection of plant health, the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal The House of Representatives passed the law in a second reading at the 12th session held on 22.4. with 32 amendments. You've received the law, as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the Law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is founded. The amendment to the proposed law was not in our home, with us. I'd like to invite a representative of the proposer first. So she was also talking about this wheel. All right, all right. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u529	Is that a question again? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] What's the matter?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u530	We can't. It's really too much of an amendment. You can't. He has to go to the committee's consent. He's got to go for a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u531	Well, let's get her into a match. Come on. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u532	Okay. Well, here we go for a plea. Yes, it is. We have the proposed text of the law. There was no amendment. We vote on the proposed text in the first reading, of course. Who's in? Unanimity - 14 for. I find that the first reading passed the law with 14 votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u533	Then how unanimous? 66
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u534	Mr. Milojević is missing. Now we're going to another reading. That's right. Since it wasn't, there were no amendments again, it wasn't again. Yes, it is. We declare the same text in the second reading. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 14 votes, we adopted this text of the law in the proposed text in the second reading. Since the law has been adopted in various texts, I suggest we appoint a committee to bring the text into line.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u535	First, I propose Čengić, Filipović and Spasojević. ______________ Same commission that was just proposed. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u536	There. Same. I think that's the best suggestion. Are we up for this commission proposal? We did. Who's for the commission? Who's against it? Who's against it? - 1 Who's abstentioned? [[Common discussion]] Thank you. I agree that with 13 votes for and 1 against, we have appointed a committee in the composition – Mr. Brka, Mr. Filipović and Mr. Radović. We're going to the 13th point of the Ad agenda. 13. Proposal for a law on the quality control of certain products in import and export, the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, we heard the reasons of the applicant. The House of Representatives adopted this Law in the attached text, and we received the Law on the report of the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the Law under Article 90. 67 First there is a debate on the necessary and principles on which the Law is founded. There was no amendment to the proposed text of the Law. Who's answering for a word for discussion? Niko. I suggest we adopt the proposed text of the law in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted this text of the Law in the first reading. I suggest we go straight to another reading and adopt this text of the law. Who's to adopt this text of the Law in the second reading? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Quality Control Act for certain products when importing and exporting. Let's go to next item number 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH Proposing the Council of Ministers of BiH. First reading. The House of Representatives adopted this Law by amendment to Article 10. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission adopted Ilija Filipović's amendments to Article 3 which became an integral part of the text of the Law. This is the first reading under Article 90. The first discussion is about the necessity and principles on which the Law is founded. Mr. Čengić answers his word, so Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u537	Mr. Chairman, since at this time we do not have a proposing representative as far as I've been informed in the course of finding solutions, if you would allow us to perhaps do well to go to the next two points and see if a representative of the Proposer shows up that we are still discussing this Law. Because there's no one from the Council of Ministers at the moment, but there's been a consultation to see someone who did this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u538	Okay. I think it's a good idea. Let's see what Mr. Spasojević has to say. Mr. Spasojević. Is it? Okay. Do you agree with the rest of us to act in a way that we leave this law for later? Yeah, for working on it and deciding, and going to the next agenda? 68 This is 15 point Ad. 15. Ratification of Protocol 13 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the elimination of the death penalty in all circumstances, the proposal of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina The report of the committee responsible has been delivered to you on benches. I call on the proposing representative to give an introductory explanation and explain these conventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u539	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates and others present, this is about a classic process of ratification of international agreements and agreements. In this case, it is a Protocol to the 13th European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the elimination of the death penalty in all circumstances. Namely, the ratification process of this procedure has so far been implemented under the Law on the procedure for the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, which means Council of Ministers, the Presidency has considered this, this Protocol and has now been sent to the ratification procedure before this House. How much information I have and the Constitutional and Legal Committee has today discussed this Convention, or Protocol, and has accepted it without objections. As far as the substance of this Protocol is concerned, it can be said as soon as possible that there is one significant amendment to the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances. The 83rd Protocol abolished the death penalty, which refers to members of the Council of Europe, means the member states of the Council of Europe in which the death penalty is sought. However, in 83 C.E., an exception was left that the death penalty could be pronounced at the time of the war and the time of direct war danger. This Protocol 13 also abolishes this exception, requiring Member States to abolish the death penalty in all circumstances. For example, just to inform you of domestic legislation means Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities in their criminal laws have already abolished the death penalty. There is, however, a prison sentence for a certain duration. So it's not a limited number of years, and you know that before in the former ex Yugoslavia, these laws were in force until recently, there was a death sentence and there was a prison sentence of up to 20 years. So now the death penalty is lifted and this prison sentence remains indefinitely permanent, meaning an unlimited number of years. This is the rest, and that's the text. I think you've already read it. It mainly refers to the procedure of entry into force of this Protocol, which is the first day of the month after three months of the day when 10 countries of the Council of Europe sign this Convention. So that's when it goes into effect. As long as I'm here at the pay phone, it might be good to say briefly about this second Protocol 12. The same procedure has been implemented so far. In essence, this is about implementing a general ban on discrimination against human rights, and it also concerns this Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Here, these rights are extended and asked by Member States to ensure that they eliminate general discrimination from their laws and where exactly it is said here to be ensured, that there must be all equal rights for all 69 regardless of the sex, race, color of the skin, language, religion, political and other opinion, national and social origin, relationship with any national minority, property, birth or other status. So, in a maximum sense, there is protection of human rights and freedom. This Convention is also, in its few points, whether it has only prescribed the adoption procedure, i.e. it needs domestic legislation to take over from this Protocol all these obligations prescribed in this Protocol and the Declaration. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u540	I thank Mr. Radulj and here I am opening the debate first at point 15. Who wants to hear from you? There's no discussion. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u541	I would just like to formalize because this report by the Constitutional and Legal Committee that discussed the proposal for a ratification decision this morning and unanimously adopted this proposal and recommended that the House give consent to both Protocol 13 and Protocol 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u542	I thank Mr Filipović, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Is anyone else answering for a word, a debate? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we make a statement and agree to ratify this Protocol and the Convention. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify this Protocol 13. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the elimination of the death penalty in all circumstances. I thank you all. Moving to the next 16th point of the Ad agenda. 16. Ratification of Protocol 12 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Proposer of the BiH Presidency, we heard the argument on behalf of the promoter. We've heard the report from the working bodies, the commission in charge. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 70 I'm giving a statement and giving consent to ratifying who's in favour? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 13 votes, we have given consent and ratified Protocol 12 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad.18. The verification of the conclusions of the 1st plenary session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 10 April 2003, was held at the first plenary session of both homes, and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of the Peoples established the conclusions we received. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Genjac Halid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u543	Dear colleagues, I will, in fact, highlight with this question a very important thing that is happening right now. Namely, in the term of office of the Parliamentary Assembly of '96. until '98. Some 20 laws were passed, '98. by 2000, also 20th, last term adopted 30 laws and 30th, declared by the High Representative. Last time, a while ago, we had this newly established commission, a joint commission of both homes, which, about four and a half hours ago, worked on formulating the response, the first answers to those 300 and some questions from the European Commission about our path to stabilisation and accession, and there, among other things, we considered the dynamics of the law as one of the most important activities in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In the course of this session, we have passed ten laws. Please pay attention to that fact. So at today's session, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly passed ten laws. It's half the laws that formerly adopted annually, and these are not laws declared by the High Representative, so he adopted this home. These are laws that came from the Council of Ministers and that are for the first time being discussed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think it's a fact to respect. I, of course, want to congratulate all of us here and to point out that behind this number of adopted laws are committee meetings, competent committees of the Constitutional and Legal Commissions, joint committees, etc. I think that by discussing the map of the road, discussing the process of stabilisation and accession to the European Union, it is precisely a place to highlight this fact and to point out that, because in the Roadmap, under numerous obligations that were before the Parliamentary Assembly, it was the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly services, which also have their role and merit in these adopted ten laws. It was the establishment of commissions and the work of these commissions has been continued, which also have their merit in this number of 71 passed laws and, of course, was what was the issue of political commitment, political freedom and political appearance on the political scene, the existence of political readiness to support the laws important and necessary on BiH's path to European integration. So, we are today, this success should be registered. I hope that this will be an established way of working for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the House of Peoples in this assembly and, of course, expressing the willingness to make a full contribution through the committees through this House. I said that some time ago, on this committee that has only been established for a long time, we have been grinding these answers to the questions of the European Commission, and I think that we have given quality answers, I think that, by hiring all the members of this committee, with great effort from this commission, we have come together to hone these answers and to give answers that reflect an objective picture of a critical tone and, of course, who are optimistically looking at this path, also respecting these results as we have, let's say, today. Of course, we talked about the road ahead of us and at the plenary session. We have conclusions here. I, of course, support these conclusions, which express the willingness of the Parliamentary Assembly and the unsuspecting commitment and the willingness to meet obligations and to speed up that path. I have one suggestion, when I came out here, that the text of the conclusions, which was adopted at the House of Representatives, since he in some way scratched out, the House of Representatives has drafted these conclusions of the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs of one and the other from this plenary session and this rapsis. That's about 5% difference in a few words, a few sentences. I propose, therefore, that we adopt the conclusion in the text, the conclusions in the form adopted at the House of Representatives for the simple reason that these conclusions are published in the Official Messenger of BiH and that in the Official Messenger of BiH we publish the text of conclusions under which both committees, the president of both committees, or the chairman of both homes, will be signed in order not to further form a committee of reconciliation and waste time. I think this would be one practical solution, especially when it's not about fundamental changes, and, of course, the commission is here to say its position.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u544	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Hasan Čengić, the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u545	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected present and representatives of the Council of Ministers, so very briefly. We've all received a proposal for the text of conclusions. Meanwhile, since the plenary session, both committees, or commissions, have held a meeting of the House of Representatives that adopted these conclusions. What matters is, actually, just a few differences. Perhaps one can be essential or one that has a different meaning. Everything else, in my opinion, can be reduced to languages, or new technical differences and alignments. 72 This fundamental difference in the text that was adopted in the House of Representatives is related to the second indent, in turn, in the fourth row in which it is said: instead of changing and putting it until 2009. So, that these results are achieved by 2009 instead. It's about the commission. So our commission also had the first version, please let us understand each other. So the first version of the identical, identical text of the first version of both committees was made, and then that version went to the House of Representatives. She's been through these little repairs there, which, here, we have here. Now, then, the repairs concern the next one. In the second indent of the first row, the word "put" should be replaced by the word "membership". In the second row of the second indent, the word "general and operational and strategic" is replaced by "strategic and operational". In the same indent of the words "in 2009" are replaced by "until 2009" So, the only thing that is essential instead of 2009 to 2009. I personally think that we can accept it, and the rest of us can treat everything else like language repairs. I'll go out here with just one more detail. So in the text proposed by our commission, we agreed on the Commission to say the order in indent number 3 in the second row where it is said "in which collective and individual rights should be exercised in full in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina" we agreed to replace the word schedule so that it would be "separate and collective rights". So that's the only thing, all of this can actually be considered technical repairs, and I think it would be good instead of having some big debate to say that we're adopting an identical text, and we're bringing this down to these technical differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u546	I thank Mr. Čengić, President of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. Mr. Spasojević has a need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u547	I'm usually a little different, but I don't think those differences are that big to keep us away, but we'll probably find some compromise. As far as these conclusions are concerned, I suggest again that since, as I said in the first paragraph, the Bureau and the Council of Ministers produce all operational documents, it means, since they are in charge of foreign policy, it is logical that they also produce these documents. It's about this other alias. So, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers will work out, so this main strategic, rather than all operational documents in co-operation with the European and this by 2009. That's what it's all about. 73 As for this under the passports, here a little bit, these documents should contain all the structurals, I suggest that they be deleted structurally, because structurally it means that you can p... RS, or the Federation, rather than putting the word "structure" into place "these documents should contain all necessary reforms, and structurally we can also change entities which are not good. Furthermore, it is necessary to implement that BiH has become a self-sustaining country. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not yet self-sustainable, because it has one part of its budget, one part is financed from entity. So to become, I suggest that it be erased, but a stable country instead of self-sustainable. In the next paragraph, I suggest that these structural reforms be deleted. Reforms, they're reforms. I don't know if they are structural or whether others are still in this paragraph, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly supports the Council of Ministers' activities now in the process of stabilising and joining obligations for all working bodies, to ensure strategic documents. What are these strategic documents? Documents, that these documents are realised and monitored within Parliament. What do you need strategically? We don't have a development strategy. Then how did we get the papers strategically? Furthermore, I suggest that in the last paragraph, that what happens with regular reporting for three months, I think it's a small period for it to pass in a minute to be every six months and if every six months we have a real dia... and if we follow this all we've said, we'll be in 2007 and not in 2009 in the European...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u548	I thank Mr. Spasojević. We have one completely different approach here. The replica is preferred according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u549	I think it would be good if there was someone else to discuss. Namely, it's about the next one. If I understand what we are talking about, these conclusions are in fact the conclusions that have already been accepted at the plenary session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, therefore, accepted. I think that everything else, therefore, according to what we discussed on the committee of our home and that we are discussing on the committee of the other home, there were no fundamental objections to these views. All differences in my opinion can be reduced to these technical or dissimilar expressions. On these issues of the type whether these structural changes, changes to eliminate entities, we all know well, and there is no need to waste time so that one such conclusion can neither end the entity nor open the entity to abolish entities etc. That's why there's planned constitutional procedures and a number of other things. But, for example, we have already today, Mr. Spasojević, with your blessing and vote and support, adopted one decision or one change, in which we have changed the way foreign investment is recorded. When you look from the outside for whoever invests that money, it's even a structural question for him, because now he's not going to go to three addresses, but he's going to go to one, etc. So I don't see that behind this there are any secret and ominous intentions of anyone or this paper of power to change that. And on the other hand, all the other attitudes, so really all the other attitudes are 74 questions of definition. Here, I, for example, came out with the view that I think that there should be individual and collective rights and if the text is collective and individual. It's kind of my taste. But in this text of the House of Representatives about whom, in fact we plead, it says collective and individual. It's almost a question of taste. I don't know, I'd prefer individual rights, because an individual is always harder to defend someone collectively. But basically when it's in the same sentence, it doesn't change the point at all. I don't think we should change the really accepted conclusions at the plenary session. And if it's a matter of formulas, then let's see who else they are. I don't think it would be bad to go towards reducing these differences and perhaps, however, the simplest solution is that the text that has already been accepted in the House of Representatives is simply accepted, with the conclusion that structurally does not mean the abolition of entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u550	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u551	Let's see how we get out of this situation. If he's restrained, Zoran can't get away with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u552	A colleague, Spasojević, encouraged me to come out and make my impression on the conclusions in which after reading, I found that there was something missing in that original version that was said, which one of the presidents of the House of Representatives read, was the conclusion that the need for the institutions of BiH and entities, of course, to the extent that they too are obliged to do so, should engage a little with their words to convince it of the affirmation of values which, the idea of Europe, European institutions, European integration is implicated, that is, to the affirmation of all that we do here and what is in the service or function of our involvement in Europe, at the affirmation, therefore, in the minds of the Bosnian Herzegovic citizenship and the subject was mentioned, of course, and the meaning of the media and what I am now mentioning, and what is in the function of our involvement in the affirmation of this document of the first opinion, is that in which the fact that in the first statement, in the first question, in the first question, the first question, in the first question, in the first question, the first question, the first question, the European Parliament in the first question, is that in the first question, the first question, the first question, in the firstly, the first question, which the first question, the firstly, the firstly the firstly, the firstly the firstly the firstly, the first question, the firstly, the firstly, the firstly, the first question, the first of the first question, the firstly the firstly the firstly the firstly of the decision of the first question of the European. I would also remind you, on my part, by pointing to something that my colleague Genjac has already said, and my colleague Filipović has reiterated that we must not be dissatisfied with what we have done today and the generalo must not be dissatisfied with what has been done in the direction of our efforts to get involved in these European integrations as soon as possible. I point out that I am noticing a change in one and a political relationship with these issues in the sense that the issue of our involvement in European integration, unfortunately, was, among other things, party manipulation and mystified. Please. I warn delegates that they have in mind this fact that I hold very important as very significant progress made in this assembly, in terms of overcoming party approaches to European integration, which have never been for, let me say, the largest part of the 75 citizens of BiH and the Bosnian-Herzegovina issue, but the fate issue. However, it is partyically, to say the same, and to me, I have been greatly encouraged by this first conclusion, which is very fair, correctly said something that has always been evident, that our involvement in European integration is, in fact, something that exists, indeed, a political consensus, less than any political will in BiH can be said and, on the other hand, I hold that these conclusions do not only correspond to what has been said in the joint session of both our homes, but rather to the truth of one general political will in BiH, and that they are, in fact, showing this one step that we have achieved, I would say in the atmosphere or in the ambience that we now have, and the step that testifies that the issue of these integrations for us, indeed, is not a short-sight issue and that no one should have any concern that, let us say very, very, very, very, say, very much, that I say, in a limited reach, in a formal sense, may be able to say, to say, or to say, politically, to say, to say, politically, to say, to some political harm, to say, to some political, to say, political, political harm. So here I am also calling on my colleague Zoran, given the very value of everything we do on the line of this gradual fulfillment, I would say the conditions for inclusion in European and Euro-Atlantic flows and all that is yet to come to us for the affirmation of the ideas of Europe and the ideas of its institutions and of the political and formal and each other if you want to level, to accept them would be complicated, I would say, because we have come up with much more complications and that, at least in this case, if our fellow Members in the House of Representatives agree on these conclusions, which show the spirit of one of our common commitment that we too show the willingness to accept these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u553	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Here, this was also an invitation to be unique. Now in the end, we can conclude that the conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives are not important, in fact almost at all different from our commission's proposal and that here, perhaps most importantly, it's about that these conclusions do not produce any real effects, but here, if they are. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u554	Mr. President and Mr. Čengić, we will base ourselves on the proposal of our commission, our home, and that is the document that Mr. Spasojević put a few repairs on. In both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, he also wanted us to commit the presidency, because not all tasks to the Council of Ministers are related, drawing up major operational documents, so he proposes to reject the word "strategic", so I think it can pass through operational documents. In the next Mr. Spasojević suggests, don't let us get into a situation, here, we're a little short on it, I won't let down, that's the position of our club last night was to make these little lecturing repairs, and I don't believe that, the first conclusion is very clear and precise about which Mr. Hilmo was now talking about, and he's essentially the most powerful one from this 76 plenary session that I'm not reading about right now. In the next conclusion, in fact, even at the second conclusion, other than strategically, these documents should contain all necessary reforms, I see no reason why it could not be structurally replaced. In the fourth, the word structural reform is unnecessary, it can only stand for reforms, should reflect BiH's internal character, as complex multinational states etc. Because structure means internal organization, or internal character. We repeat one word in two different forms. The structure is an internal character, and below it is said that BiH's internal character, as a complex multinational state, means we can erase this prefix "structure" and, also down, repeat it once again strategic documents. Through their working bodies, they shall ensure that these documents are implemented and monitored within Parliament. Here, these small corrections and the Serbian Delegates' Club will vote in the back with 4.0 for these proposals by Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u555	Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u556	So, first of all, let's understand one thing. In the first thing, these are not the conclusions of Mr Čengić, nor are the conclusions of the commission alone, these are the conclusions defined on the basis of the views and conclusions reached at the plenary session. Since the Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, does not normally work in plenary sessions, a position has been adopted, the position is taken that each home individually and jointly declared conclusions should be accepted, that is, number 1. We tried to inspect as faithfully as possible, as close as possible to those views and conclusions that were accepted there at the plenary session in this text. That's the first one. Secondly, as for structurally, and if we accept to replace it with the necessary, we are, therefore, opening the process of harmonising this and that text of conclusions. Secondly, structurally there is definitely a lot of application of very much meaning, one is, of course, an internal organisation, but structural internally it can be related to a series of activities that are now taking place, therefore, procedures, institutions through which some decision must go, the position of the operation, etc. So if we rule out structurally and tomorrow we really need to cut the road to foreign investment, cut the path to decision making, cut the path to company registration, cut the path to determining responsibility for this or that, etc. In the legal sense of the word, therefore, in the legal sense of the word, then we will have to work on structural things again, and we will rule out the word structurally. Next, I don't understand why banish, why banish, why put the word strategic on the stake? I do not understand at all that this word should be at the stake that it should no longer be in the conclusions, in the official texts of the Parliamentary Assembly, for a very simple reason. 77 First, the word strategically, or strategically, is not originally from either of the three official languages, originally not one of the three official languages in BiH. Apparently, the party as a foreigner has been adopted, and apparently now, in fact, we don't have a replacement. Secondly, it involves one general, one systematic and long-term view, a vision, a proposal, a solution, a plan, etc., which cannot be excluded at all. Next, I don't see why, let's say, strategically, entities would be allowed and BiH wouldn't be allowed. Just to remind you, just tomorrow, the two committees of this home should attend presentations, so the strategic development programme, economic development and self-sustainable economic development of BiH, again there, the word strategic. And when it comes to this structurality, it's clear that there's no space even with an evil intention, let alone a good intention to interpret how structural it is, it can be interpreted as removing one of the entities. Please, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, the fifth indent of this conclusion says very precisely. Look. Entitys are expected to use their constitutional powers. Constitutional powers and take responsibility for matters which are within their jurisdiction. It can't be interpreted at all that someone wants to hide in the 2nd indent under structural entity abolition, and in the 5th indent they are calling for the constitutional position of the entity and calling for entities to use that constitutional position to fulfil the obligations they have. So, in that sense, I am purely collegiately talking, I can understand changes in text and adaptation, etc. But I don't see, I really don't see any basis in this text being offered here for any intentions, which would be against the principled views of any political option, etc., and especially against the existence of entities, there's no basis. So I'm saying if we need to get along, it's still better to agree the text now than later. However, this has passed the reading at the House of Representatives, this has passed the analysis at the House of Representatives, there have been certain repairs, I believe there is nothing that would be controversial to the principles that we have all adopted together. So, individually and as representatives of their parties and finally as representatives of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u557	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Nade Radovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u558	I welcome Mr. Chairman, welcome fellow delegates, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to try to draw close to what sentence. I think the importance of the conclusions is enormous and I think that the intention of all of us is shown in the first sentence that something that Europe has offered is to move towards it. And I'm not going to go into these tiny finesse, I think there's protection for these tiny finesse, if no one had any intention of changing through these fines anything that is serious and that Europe cannot allow, too, because it has its own principles of adoption. So the way things are done and how some decisions are made, we can't break them there. However, I agree here, and I can't bear to say that we have diminished the role and importance of the Presidency. Both homes of the BiH Assembly are in charge of the Council of Ministers, which is logical. It is according to the Rules of Procedure on Labour and the Constitution, as well as the Constitution, 78 or foreign policy of the BiH presidency. So, it is with the Council of Ministers which initiates and makes proposals and Parliament adopts one and the other. If there's a possibility that we can't form this committee with the House of Representatives, I mean, and the rest of it, let's see if we can see how much space we have to bring it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u559	I thank Mr. Radović. Mr. Zno answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u560	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I am truly sorry to hear from you, and about this item on the agenda, because I don't think she deserves the attention we give her at all. This is about conclusions. I guess we all know what a form of conclusion is. It's actually from convoking a certain text, a certain reading, of what's been said in a broad form in a few sentences to keep it in writing so that it won't be forgotten and that, not by memory, we'll go back to something that we've concluded. So what's written here has absolutely no strategic significance whatsoever. In this text, I see absolutely nothing good or ugly, but simply a confirmation of why we voted after a joint session, which was terribly tiresome for all of us and then finally we all raised our hands for those conclusions that Mr. Raguž read, was that so, and I believe that's what's in this. But please, in truth, it doesn't mean anything to you, Mr. Čengić, and for that, strategically there are synonyms for strategicity. It's strategically important at the same time and it's important at the same time. The document is a document. When I say something strategic, I always think of a particular document. And if we now have a plan here to build corridor Vc through Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I can call it a strategic document in construction and, therefore, I really don't see any reason to lose 40 minutes on irrelevant things. I'm glad, then I'm giving up the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u561	Thank you. I'd just like one sentence. I've been consulting the Constitution for a while. As far as the presidency is concerned, this word wouldn't be any extra, if this is some kind of minimum that needs to be classified, so I think. It is, but it is written here in the responsibilities under e) executes the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly. Of course, it's constitutional authority. Here, I think we can finally make a statement. I suggest you...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u562	79 [[speaks from place and no exposure can be heard]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u563	I think we can draw conclusions that were adopted both at the plenary session and at the House of Representatives and here with us, I don't think there were any more important differences and different opinions. I would give these conclusions to the House of Representatives to be immediately agreed upon.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u564	Mr. Genjac commends today this house, the commission, has not well praised the clubs and the College, but well, I ask you that when we have space here, President, I suggest we do not get hurt either, regardless of how we know that our colleagues in the House of Representatives have adopted this text, we will probably have to get used to the plenary sessions, from which some conclusions will come out, and we will say, yes, it was, it was not so, etc. In this direction, I propose that we vote originally for the engagement of the House of Representatives, in which we have held consultations of three delegates from the Serbian people will vote in favour. Mr. Spasojević, since his proposals today cannot get the required majority will remain abstention on their proposals, we will achieve both entity and national consent and I think we have invested too much time on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u565	Thank you. I'm voting on the House of Representatives' conclusions. Who's in? - 13 Who's against it? Niko. uzdržati 1. I thank and realize that with 13 votes and 1 abstention we adopted conclusions in the text as it was adopted at the House of Representatives, and in fact they are very similar to that of the plenary session. Since he didn't show up, you're a wildcard today. We're back on point 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons from BiH, the proposal of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u566	Here I was honored to be on behalf of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, since they couldn't come to make a proposal on item 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act, displaced persons from BiH. So, this bill of amendments has already been submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly, here it is only today in the first reading in front of this House. As far as I understand 80 from this explanation of the bill, the main thing is that these actions on the achievement and protection of human rights of refugees, emigration, immigration, azila and others have moved from the ministry that had previously been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. By law on the Council of Ministers and ministries, these jobs were transferred to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Now, among other things, that jurisdiction to transfer to this ministry and then something else is old law from '99. years in several articles changes, which you have in your proposal. I suggest you consider adopting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u567	Thank you, Mrs. Zdenka. Mr. Spasojević is answering for his word. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Spasojević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u568	I'd like the Ministry's representative to explain to me Article 4 which is why these dates are moving from '92. year for April 30, or April 1, 1992. and Article 5. April 30, '92. for April 30, 1991. and in Article 2, the word 'good-doing' is deleted. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u569	By date change, is it Mr. Spasojević? It means Article 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u570	/didn't come out for a gourmet/ Article 4. ... and Article 2 third indent
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u571	Okay. I understand this to the Proposer. Okay. So here's why these dates are......................................................... [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u572	We're taking this off. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u573	Just a little bit, I'd be begging if we were to bring this to an end after all. I mean, here's the deal, we have the conditions to keep working on this wheel, or not. 81 So should we continue to do it or really take off this point because there is no one on behalf of the promoter to give us a quality explanation of these dates. I think so. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u574	So as far as the date is concerned, be careful, if we want to get an answer, if we want to see someone from the ministry, that's something else. I mean, I really can't decide about that, but I repeat as someone who's been in the Federal Parliament for six years being president of the Committee for the Return of Refugees and Displaced Persons, I almost met every day that on this date. So that date caused huge protests and dissatisfaction within the Federation, but it was unchangeable because it was determined by the international community, by all factors of the international community. And they said it was the day he and he and since then counts, until then this is, since then, different. And there's nothing we can do about it. There's no new explanation, there's no new additions, and most importantly there's no change in date, because it's already been implemented in existing entity laws. He already exists there. Watch out, so I don't see any reason to go about it right now. We can decide if we're going to decide. If we accept or do not accept the law, and there is no reason for this, this fact which is a fact and which is less, the largest number of us are very familiar, unchangeable, not to discuss further. I think we should have a debate about the law and make a statement about the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u575	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u576	Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u577	I welcome you and I want to draw your attention to the following. The work is done here, I think the Council of Ministers in this House's work on several occasions does not follow and does not cover its own laws on this House. The simple decision of Parliament, the decision of this home, exists that the laws that do not have a proposing, the legal legislator from the Council of Ministers are being removed from the agenda. I'm in favour of that decision. This is the case, here is a matter of principle, no matter what I want to adopt this law, but this house has to protect its position and must protect itself. I do not agree that this law is further discussed. Thank you. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u578	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u579	...we're doing it with coal. Of course, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples is very clear. Mandatory items of the agenda shall be placed on the agenda and, if assumptions are made to consider these points, they shall be considered, they shall not be removed. We have conjecture to discuss this law, because a representative of the Council of Ministers is present here and has presented the basic characteristics of this law. That's one thing. The other thing to consider is, the committee in charge. The competent commission has been considering and we have the position of the committee in charge. The asked questions of the delegates are good if the author answers the text of the law. But more important than that, to answer the question. It doesn't matter who, especially when it comes to a law that has seven members and if questions are asked by an answer, it's not at all slow, because, indeed, on April 1st, '91. The year was established, for the simple reason that the appearance of displaced persons, the refugees began to strive from that date, events in Croatia. A large number of refugees came to Bosnia, etc. The simple reason and reason that generally corresponds to all the troublemakers of this category, regardless of which people they come from. Therefore, the law is short. The law is clear, the law is set. We have an assumption that we are considering, and I would ask you to exert a little of our attention and concentration and a little flexibility to one extent, I say, by respecting what my colleague Pamuk, the vice-president, stressed that we would, therefore, require that, as a delegate, because of the existence of all assumptions of the bill in the first reading be placed on the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u580	Here's Mr. Filipović. Here, as we studied this law a little bit, we have an explanation of these dates, which are set out in Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u581	If you could just pay attention. Since we did not vote not to continue the debate. I have a debate to continue and I have answered the word on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has discussed the proposal for this law and adopted even one amendment that is an integral part of the basic text. The amendment is set out in Article 3 and consists of one word "under the word of the entity", the word "countries, i.e. canton" should be added, and that is a complete amendment to which the Constitutional and Legal Commission neither has the applicant had any objections. So I would ask that, however, the debate continue, with all the respect of a member of the College, who said so. Perhaps it is neglected that here, however, an authorised representative of the Council of Ministers has said something about this regulation and that we have heard a word on behalf of the Council of Ministers here. I'd like you to make a statement today about this amendment and the addition of this law. Thank you very much. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-23-0.u582	I thank Mr Filipović. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? I think with this explanation, there are so few of us in this home, we need to make a deal. What's not agreed, we don't have to go to count ourselves too much. There's mathematics very simple and easy and we don't need it. If the mood is to go with this, I'd like to go. I think we have working conditions, and I will, after the debate is over, give a statement to plead, so, about the first one, so this is the law in the first reading. Who's to adopt him in our first reading? Who's in? With an amendment that was... text. 11 for. Who's against it? - There are no abstentions. I thank and realize that the law in the first reading was passed with 11 votes and 2 against. That's already said. Drugs reading. Okay, if we don't, we'll postpone. Okay. It's a deal. Let's go. Next time, we'll really call the lawkeeper. Okay, thank you all for understanding, but we did, and it seems to me the most significant. It went first, it's not another reading, so we have room for this. I thank you all. We're going to the 19th agenda. Ad.19. In the meantime, we've reached a conclusion. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Unanimity. I thank you all, we've adopted a conclusion. And this concludes the 6th session of the House of Peoples. I thank you all. We've been working a little longer. We've been invited by a lot by Mr. Genjac. This, I hope, is what the press heard, and if they weren't here in large, larger numbers, they should have been. Repeat this the second time at the beginning of the session when we are. The session was finished at 4:45.
