ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9110	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 18th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you have used a little break to rest, that in the future when we take a break that we will be in this room in time to pay attention to the work of the Parliamentary Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to inform you that representatives of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the International Organisation that we regularly call for meetings, have been invited to attend the session. In this regard, I would like to inform you that this session is being called upon by the members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the representative of the OHR, the representative of the OSCE, the representative of the European Union, the representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, and the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the representative and observer of the Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the UN mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To all who have responded and wish to monitor the work of this House, I welcome them and to feel comfortable within this house. I would also like to inform you that Mr Hasan Muratović, an MP, has justified his absence from today's session, for another announcement we did not have in this regard. I want the job to inform us how many MPs are present? Do you have any information on how many MPs are present? I'm asking you in the future to have it before I ask you. So we have 34 MPs present, which means we have a quorum, we can make full decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the draft agenda, I suggest we finish a preliminary question. We finally received notice from the Electoral Commission that instead of Borislav Paravac, the mandate of MPs was assigned by the Electoral Commission to Mr Zoran Spasojević. Zoran Spasojević was invited to this session neatly. He responded 2 and I call on Mr Zoran Spasojević to give a solemn statement before the dom to take office as MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9111	I declare that I will fully carry out the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9112	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9113	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9114	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9115	Full implementation of the general framework dispute for peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9116	Protect and promote human rights and freedoms and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9117	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedom and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9118	Congratulations, Mr. Spasojević. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the composition of this house now, at last, we have 42 MPs. I ask the representatives of the service to inform the HDZ Club that, once again, inform them and tell them that the session has begun, since no one has asked for a break. I'm asking you to inform them one more time, that's what you're notifying us 15 minutes ago that they're on their way. It's not a good answer. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given the agenda in your calls, and I want to be in line with the changes that have been made to inform you that yesterday we held a session of the Board and a session of the extended College and the extended College agreed to some changes in the agenda, i.e. to remove some of the points from the agenda and define new points of the agenda. 3 In this sense new items of the agenda are proposed under 1. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 2. The request of MP Seade Palavrić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on State Service under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure and 3. Giving consent to the ratification of the following agreements: (a)Agreement on the development loan of a project to develop and protect forests between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, under (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, a technical assistance project for social security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development, (c) of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey on Social Insurance, under d) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in cooperation in the field of culture. These are the 3 points that we have proposed and you have seen from the agenda is the disfellowshipped point under regular number 8, which is the adoption of the law on public procurement, the reason we have received notice from the European Commission that they are working, that the first draft of the law will be in the second week of September, is that our general conclusion is that our aim is to pass laws that are of interest to this country and not laws that will be in conflict with what the European Union thinks and prevailed with the view that this point is removed from the agenda until we get the first draft of the law from the European Commission. The new updated draft agenda you got before the beginning of the session, and here I am opening a discussion on the agenda that you got along with these natural notes regarding the adjustments made by the extended College at last session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am also taking the opportunity to congratulate Professor Nikola Špirić and to wish to conduct these sessions well in the future, at the same time to bring good laws to the benefit of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Last time I wasn't at the session when it was this inauguration, so I'm late for it now. I propose the next item of the agenda, which is the Council of Ministers' report on the construction of the Corridor Vc highway. If MPs accept that, then I will certainly give a broader explanation, but right now, at the shortest, we have been puzzled by a lot of things about the construction of the highway. We have, as the Council of Ministers of Initiative says, that is why we have a letter of intent from the Republic of Croatia. We see that there is also a third party 4 such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and at the same time it really is a serious project that certainly deserves Parliament to be regularly aware of this so that, of course, parliamentary control can try to follow this big project. Knowing what we are and always making a problem when it comes to a major tender or project, I think parliamentary control should certainly be very present for the construction of the highway. Mr. Chairman, I'm giving you the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9120	I thank Mr. Gligorić for his congratulations, and here is the proposal for the agenda point, and please all who propose new points in writing so that we can read them authentically. Who's next to the word? Mr. Križanović answered the question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9121	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, by calling for Article 26. 2 on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's Social Democratic Party Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Club, I propose that we include in today's session the formation of an investigative commission on the possible involvement of the House's representatives in the preparation of a "state coup". It is about the accusations brought in the media that there is an organised group of people systematically working on causing chaos, terrorism, intimidation and destabilising the threat of constitutional order. Of course, these are very serious accusations, insinuations and they require a serious relationship between us. Before I express our deep belief that the competent authorities of the prosecution and the judiciary including the High Prosecutor's Council of Serbia will continue until the end and bring the case to an independent and professional conclusion. It would be a good message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina if we finally had an independent judiciary capable of justly sanctioning the real destroyers of this country as well as those who staged it by bringing fear and distracting the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the real problems of this country. So this is about the involvement of our agents, and in order to protect the integrity of this home, we cannot stay away from these affairs. That is why I propose that a committee be formed to demand the possible responsibility of our representatives. Maybe we wouldn't ask for this if there was a commission or an ethics commission in this house that would take over this job by nature. The aim of this committee's work is therefore to investigate the justification of these accusations by who plans them, possibly with what purpose and to inform this home within 30 days. 5 I, of course, have here concrete proposals and details of the work of the Commission, but I would possibly declare them and give this, suggestions on how the commission works if the proposal is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9122	I thank you, Mr. Križanović, I would only ask in writing the title of the agenda item to deliver, not a problem if I can. Mr. Živković has already answered, so Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9123	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the High Representative has been here a few moments ago and has accused this House of such a rhythm of working only one Assembly in the month will not be able to complete the work that is ahead of us. Not wanting to carry that part of responsibility as a man who attended all the congregations and did his job properly, and I believe everyone else, I believe that, under point 15, this assembly should consider the need to declare or make a decision that this high house, or House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament, is incessantly ambushed. We are behind and by the orientation plan of this assembly if you look at today's agenda for ratification of these agreements you will see that we are several months behind, even years, and I feel justified that this assembly is considering making such a decision. That's my suggestion, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9124	I thank my colleague Živković, I would like to pray in writing for my duty to comment, this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is in constant session. All MPs are professional or 99% in professional work, the second thing is that we have a plenary session once or twice a month, when an adequate agenda is provided. I will be overjoyed when we have all those who follow the work of this Parliament from the Council of Ministers to the Presidency who are able to maintain such a pace of Parliament's work. So we're in a permanent session, I just don't know if it should be officially declared. So, we're in a permanent session, we're sitting plenary once or twice a month, when we have a agenda that's justifies the cost of meeting that day and that's in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I think that public exposure that Parliament does not work or does not work well enough, but here we put on this request by Mr. Živković for a statement, we can officially do it today, so today, we can do it. The speaker of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, called for the floor. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, here is according to my constitutional powers, and since Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Ms. Mila Gađić has resigned from office of ministar in this ministry, I have made a decision on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so I would like to ask that today's agenda be placed on the agenda – confirming the decision to appoint the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9126	I thank the chairman, Mr. Terzić, we received this official request and there were talks last night at the extended College but it was an agreement if all the necessary conditions were to be obtained that today's chairman of the Council suggest it, what he did, so you heard a request for a new agenda. Mrs. Seada Palavrić answered the word, and Mr. Sead Avdić followed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9127	I have two interventions on an updated agenda proposal. The first is to explain to us why the proposal was excluded, the law on procurement excluded, and the second is to complete the agenda with one new point. I would like to propose that, behind point 12, we introduce a point – Report of the Administrative Commission on the Decision on the harmonisation of the salaries of MPs with the salaries of ministers and a proposal for measures. As you know, I've already proposed this once, and there was an explanation for most colleagues that I didn't bring it up at an extended college. Now I put it out, or I put it out on an extended college last night, and unfortunately the two parties just didn't agree to this proposal, so now I want this House to make a statement about the proposal to introduce this new point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9128	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. I would pray only in writing, with my duty here to give on behalf of the College if I could explain why? I think I already said that because the 8th point of the agenda was taken down. My kolegica Palavrić was at an extended College, and we made that decision by consensus, and I said we received a letter from the European Commission warning us that this law is not in line with European standards, that in the second week of September they will offer their own draft of the law, and we care about coming to a good law, and that is why we have decided to suspend this law. So, yes, yes, and the conclusion, therefore, of the extended College, was that it was simple but I think it seemed to me that it was the conclusion that we would send one court letter to the European Commission in which we would say that the find to which reforms were being implemented was not good at the moment when Parliament offered the law or the Parliamentary Commission, then we would get a message that someone else was doing it but that we did not know about it and that in every sense 7 we were willing to cooperate to get to good laws and that in the future we would not be in a situation, or we would not provide political consent to withdraw the laws from parliamentary procedure unless there was co-operation. I'm obliged to give that explanation, and I think that's very satisfying at this point. Next, Mr. Sead Avdić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9129	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I would like to affirm another proposal that was on the extended College yesterday, on behalf of the Group of Representatives of the Parliamentary House of BiH coming from Tuzlanski and Posavina Canton, in the sense of calling on the Council of Ministers to reconsider once more and to point 2. The law amending the Law transposing the regulator and the operator of electricity to Bosnia and Herzegovina withdraws from the parliamentary procedure. The explanation, not only of the groups of MPs but also of the Tuzlan Canton Assembly and the government of Tuzlan Canton, is very argumentative, and in this sense requires a real response from the Council of Ministers, a law that has not entered into the implementation at all, a law that has recently been passed, at the request of three appointed regulators and operators of electricity, without a valid argument, we again get the law amending the Law on the operator of the regulator and the transmission of electricity, which means that the law that has not yet experienced its implementation and has not proved itself to be bad, and this solution for the Derk to be, the seat of the Derk is in Tuzla, is objectively changing the law and requires a change of the law from the argument that is absolutely unconvincible nor can be supported by any elemental criticism. So we propose that the Council of Ministers declare that they withdraw the law under point 2. Law amending the Law on the Transposition, Regulator and Operator of Electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9130	I would like to thank my colleague Avdić in writing for his proposal. I also want to, which documents, I would ask you, is the request of a group of MPs, we said about him last night at the College, this is today your request as an MP, so in writing form, don't be difficult for you, so I don't argue that it can be, but it would be good for us to be like others to get a formulated agenda point. I want to tell you that this was a proposal last night at an extended College, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has not expressed his wish or the possibility to withdraw this agenda item in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to inform you that it's not possible to pull a dot off the agenda. So there is no business option, I do not dispute that the MP is asking for this, of course, we will plead, because according to the Rules of Procedure, this would be a binding item of the agenda. Who's next to the word? Mr. Novaković answered, so who else do I see, Mr. Moranjkić? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9131	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, it seems to me that in the last or the previous session, I have expressed one disagreement, and I want to do so again and again, although I am fully aware that we cannot take the mandatory point off the agenda, but I want to ask the extended College here, I am sorry I wasn't at a meeting of the extended College last night, this one at point 8. The request of MP Seade Plavrić to consider amendments and additions to the Law on State Service, I believe that most MPs do not have that law here now, because it was not envisaged and I have left it, so I cannot bear all the laws and all the materials that I get from here constantly carry them with me. Therefore, I ask you and ask you once again this college not to lay down laws, which means that the laws aside from the Council of Ministers' proposal, but also them, if we can provide them at the session ourselves, that we do not put the sitting on the agenda. In the end, and because of the laws themselves, it is because of the text that needs to be passed through a bat to see how acceptable it is and how not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9132	I would like to ask Kostor Novaković if your proposal for a new agenda item or a change of agenda or taking it off the agenda? You don't have a suggestion, so this was a comment. Thank you very much, just so I know. Mr. Moranjkić, who still answers the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9133	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, ladies from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have an objection to the agenda, specifically at point 2 by two. First, the reason for its adoption and regarding the change in the location of the Dert headquarters is not justified, if you want and offensive in this part of the argument, for Tuzla Canton and the citizens of that canton, which is expressed in the Assembly of the Tuzla Canton. And secondly, we passed a law that the Council of Ministers did not want to repeat once again did not want to implement, and instead of responding to this parliament for that, this parliament should reward it with the whims of their loans, through this amendment. In k... there is no place for him to go under Article 105. Take or leave because this is a typical form of abuse of Article 105 in our Rules of Procedure, and therefore I suggest that if the Council of Ministers does not withdraw as a mandatory point, it does not go under Article 105, but goes into a regular procedure and until the law is passed as it has been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9134	I thank Mr. Moranjkić, therefore, I do not know what your request is, I would ask you to define the agenda point because this is just a comment or a download point. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9135	I said, I think you heard from Mr. Chairman, that he's not going by article 105 if it's an obligation and the point should go rather than going after another member.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9136	Yeah, but there's no such thing as a poslovnički possibility. I beg you, then, all MPs, to study the Rules of Procedure well. We're gonna lose less time on the agenda debate. So, we all have to fit in what's called our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, Mr. Selim Bešlagić asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9137	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I am ashamed to say and to be ashamed, if we accept that this item of agenda 2 goes to our session. It is impossible to make this home decide that Derk is going to Tuzlo and that three unpublished laws are already requesting that he be transferred to Tuzlo. We ask that this point be removed from the agenda. You have a request of 7 MPs from the Tuzla Canton to remove this item from the agenda. You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9138	I thank Mr. Bešlagić, I would only pray that now, therefore, it is not disputed about everything we will plead. Niko one can order this Parliament to confirm in a democratic debate its initial position that the Derk headquarters remains in Tuzla. So please don't matter if the points are or won't be, but whether the MPs are going to be at the level of the Cantonal Authority's request from Tuzla or not, they will be against it. So let's not argue whether there will be agenda points, because it is binding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9139	I've made myself clear, I apologize for inviting the Council of Ministers to withdraw the request, it's quite a clear request.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9140	Well, we heard that, Mr. Avdić, we heard your request and we don't dispute that you have the right to file for it. Who's next to the word? If there are no more moody debaters on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on the agenda and we are now pleading in order how the demands have been filed. 10 The first proposal had Mr Tihomir Gligorić, as I recall, to include a new item of the agenda to read – Report of the Council of Ministers on the activities relating to the construction of the Corridor Vc highway. Whoever this is said to be, he said he's looking for a point of the day, I beg you, we've finished the debate, we've concluded the debate on the agenda, we plead. Who's in favor of being a part of the agenda? Who's against this being a new agenda point? Are there any abstentions? I would like to inform you that there are 41 MPs present who voted 15 against 16, with 10 abstentions. So we realize that this proposal has not been adopted and there will be no agenda point. Mr. Živković asked, and MP Križanović only a little bit in a row, Mr. Križanović asked to define the agenda point – Forming an investigative committee for the potential involvement of representatives of this house in the preparation of the "state strike" Who is it for this to be the point of the agenda? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find out that out of the 41 MPs present, 37 voted against it, four were abstentions. So I realize that this is becoming a new item of the agenda and here I would ask you to suggest that she be me I don't know Mr. Križenović you didn't ask where to put this point, under which regular number. Please, just a little bit, please, please. The Proposer has the right to ask. Don't yell at the last person in front. Can you help us, Mr. Križanović, to look for the agenda point, the 11th item of the agenda? I find that we have adopted, so, to make this happen, we have voted to include the agenda. Please let's put the agenda together, whether or not it's gonna be 11. 16. 17th, don't let us do this thing. So, the promoter asked, we adopted, and everyone's gonna get a chance to say where they think they should, we have suggestions different, so someone's gonna be eleven, someone's gonna be last. Who's to be the 11th item of the agenda, please give some seriousness. Who's in favour of this being the 11th item of the agenda, so we voted to be but who's in the 11th place on the agenda? Who's against being the 11th? Are there any abstentions? 11 Of the 41st in attendance is 31, versus 9, abstention 1. Please, we also have an entity, no need to vote. So I figure this is the point, the 11th point of today's agenda. We have a further request from Mr. Milorad Živković - to consider the need to declare or decide on an uninterrupted session of the Parlamantar Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. I've already given an explanation of what I think, and I think we're in a permanent session, but if we need to make a statement as to whether we're in a permanent session from today. So, lastly, we suggest to Mr. Živković that this be the last item of the agenda, is that what you suggest? Fifteenth, and then here's who's in favor of putting this into the agenda and being the last item of the agenda on this one anyway fifteenth or sixteenth. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? With three abstentions, I find that we've made a decision to, just give me a stenogram, so of 41 present, 37 for, and against and 3 abstentions. I realize we've made a decision to make this the final point of today's agenda. We have a further request from Seade Palavrić, actually the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, has requested that today be placed on the agenda under point 2. Establishing the name of the foreign trade and economic relations ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's for this to be a point under regular number two? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I realize that we adopted two abstentions to make this the second item of the agenda at today's session, so let's move on. There was a request from Ms. Seada Palavrić behind the 12th agenda, so a report by the Administrative Commission on the decision on the harmonisation of the salaries of MPs with the salaries of ministers and a proposal for measures is being introduced. Who's in favor of this being a part of the agenda? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 12 Of the 41 MPs present voted 26, 2 were against, 36 for, against were 2, we have an entity majority. So I realize that this was included in the agenda the way the MP Mrs Palavrić asked. We have a request from Mr. selo Bešlagić to be removed from the agenda of item 2, so point 2. This is the determination of the Derk headquarters, I must inform you that there is no parliamentary possibility but I do not dispute the right for the MP to propose it. Who's to take point two off when it's in favor? Who's against taking off the dot? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that this House has been violated by the Rules of Procedure. I want, I want you to, please, take good care of yourself, I say it's legitimate that the Posnik is looking for us, the right of Parliament to not violate the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I was against it, but this hiding behind our inability to publicly tell us what we think about this problem. Today I thought it would be a force to confirm the seat in Tuzla, not to hide with the delay. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been broken and I am now giving a statement as to whether we will consider this a mandatory item of the agenda. Well, you asked me to plead, so please, we have a problem. Please, just a moment, Mr. Bešlagić. You'll get your word. That's right, just a little bit, please, I'm asking the MPs to be present here when they sit. The Rules of Procedure are both yours and my duty. You can't vote past anyone, this is just a test of whether we're MPs, whether we stick to it or not. Please give it along nicely, business intervention has Mr. Džaferović, please, we can't play like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9141	Please, ladies and gentlemen, this is a mandatory point, so please, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, this is a mandatory item of the agenda, and so far, according to these proposals of the law, we have been determining ourselves by not making a statement and we have realized that this is a mandatory item of the agenda. I ask the Chairman of the House that this vote that we have had regarding this item of the agenda declares it out of the Rules of Procedure and that it realizes that this is the item of the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is much more valuable to preserve the practice of interpreting the Rules of Procedure as we have done for the past 8, 10 months than to put each time mandatory points of the agenda in either one way or another outside the agenda. It is therefore much more important and useful for this Parliament, and as far as the very essence of the matter is concerned, the law amending the Derek Law, we will have the opportunity to do so within a point, the mandatory agenda point that each of us says what he thinks and that 13 is made known on this issue. No Niko will, therefore, be denied the right, the opinion and the statement. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9142	I thank you, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must comply with the Rules of Procedure, this vote has been out of business, remains the item of the agenda mandatory, but I ask you in future MPs not to seek requests that are not, which are outside of business. So please, it's mandatory to do the agenda, we're done. I ask Mr. Bešlagić not to explain. So please don't explain it. Well, people won't do that. Well, you can't make them. I'm begging you, we're closed. May I have a moment of silence, please? We've concluded the debate on the agenda. The Council of Ministers has not been identified, thinks there is no need and such a possibility exists. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I'd like to ask you all to use this stage and allow me to hold a session. When the debate on the agenda is concluded, there can be no reason here to reopen the debate on the agenda. The chairman of the Council of Ministers had a chance at the request of the Poslanik to say I am taking or not taking off, as you said within the College that the Council would not withdraw, and I am absolutely well aware of that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9143	Basically why I answered my word, it's that Mr. Chairman didn't correctly convey what was going on at the College yesterday. I came to an extended college, participated in a discussion on this subject, and I simply said no, not that I didn't want to, but that I was not in a position to withdraw the decision made by the Council of Ministers, because I am just the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers decided, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade, to offer this parliament an amendment and addition to the Derek Act after 105. I have to have a Council of Ministers session to pull this item off the agenda. But I think that, in principle, tensions tend to arise because you as MPs can plead whether or not you're going to go after 105. Return him to regular procedure and finish your work, and there is no need for negative energy between any MP and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9144	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, on our own, we've adopted a revised agenda. Ten minutes break for the service to agree on the agenda, so we can make a statement about him. Ten minutes is enough to put the agenda together. Please make suggestions, don't let me lie to you. Ten minutes, please, in ten minutes, that we are in the O.R., to adopt the agenda and all MPs. I'll read what agenda we adopted. 14 1. Parliamentary questions and answers, below 2. Confirming the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign trade and economic relations ministers under 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the draft law amending the Law on Transposition, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, under 4. MP Nikola Špirić's request to consider the proposal for an emergency immunity law in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, under 5. MP Nikola Špirić's request for consideration of the Bill's proposal and registration of legal persons who establish BiH institutions by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, under 6. MP Nikola Špirić's request to discuss the proposal for a law on ministerial appointments, appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments in BiH by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 1o5. Rules of Procedure, under 7. MP Nikola Špirić's request for an examination of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State and Official Institutions of BiH by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, Under 8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, below 9. The request of MP Seade Palavrić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Service Act under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, under 10. Proposal for a Law on Labour and Employment of BiH, first reading by MP Dr. Sead Avdić, under 11. Proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, under 12. Forming an investigative commission to investigate allegations that the MP of this home tried to stage a coup in BiH, under 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility on 31.12.2002, below 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategy for the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement under 15. Consideration of the Management Commission's report on the Decision on the harmonisation of Members' salaries with the salaries of ministers and the proposal for measures, under 16. Proposal for a resolution on the suspension of the increase in the personal income of elected officials in the executive and legislative power, repealing earlier decisions contrary to the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions budget for 2003, by MP Dr. zlatan Lagundžija, under 17. Consideration of the SDP Members' Club's initiative to form a Committee on the Marking of the 60th anniversary of the maintenance of ZAVNOBIH, under 15 18. The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the international transport of passengers, goods in road transport, under c) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on social security, under d) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Protection of Investments, under d) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Hungary on the Protection of Investments, under f) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina on the Promotion of Investments, under the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Investments, under g) the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Security of Security of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Security of Security of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, between the European Union and the European Union, between the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the European Union, together with the European Union, together with the European Union's. Decision to declare the permanent session of the House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the agenda that we, the purified agenda that we adopted in the previous debate. We move to the first item of the agenda, these are Ad.1.Send questions Between ladies and gentlemen, from the 17th session to today we have received answers to the questions of MP Moranjkić, asked at the 15th session on the issue of Adem Huskić, also at the 15th session. Before I ask them whether they are satisfied with the answers, I would ask that given the abundant agenda we may today refrain from a large number of questions, not to use the MP's watch, but to pay attention to the points of the agenda of 16 concerning legal projects. I'd like you to respect my suggestion, but if we don't act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, I ask Mr. Moranjkić and Huskić, they want to comment on the answers they received on the parliamentary issues? Mr. Moranjkić picked up the phone, please. So he wants to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9145	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs and ladies and gentlemen, the answer I received if you didn't all get in your materials to read it, I would even take the right to multiply it myself and deliver it to all MPs. Why? I'll tell your court. This is without an apology, I rarely use these extremely difficult words, this time I have to. The most brutal form of humiliation and humiliation and MPs and this House through these answers. This is once again loud I must say from this pay phone and repeat the misery of the answer. This is the misery of the Council of Ministers if this is how it corresponds to the MP in the Parliamentary Assembly. This is also a misery from this parliament if it accepts that this is how it is continued to work and behave in this House if the MP officially asks one question to be answered in service and officially. I ask for the second time from this House to protect both my and the dignity of the MPs sitting in this House. Otherwise, this parliament will really become a mess. I ask that the responsibility of the Council of Ministers be initiated when it comes to answering parliamentary questions, because when you read this, you really see that it is either such a misunderstanding of this Parliament or it is an inadequacy of the one who has to answer this question or it is the case that no one will engage in the problem that is being raised and trying to serve the one who needs to resolve this. This is the irony of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9146	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. I would pray in the future when we comment on the answers to say which part we are not satisfied with. I didn't even understand what you were asking, but I think that in order to be correct with the Council of Ministers, you'd have to know what it is that part of which you're not satisfied with, that we could improve the situation. Thank you very much. Would Mr. Huskić like to comment on the answer? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. We're moving on to new parliamentary issues. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Zorić then Mr. Bešlagić, then Mrs. Azra, then 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9147	I'll ask you a question. At today's session of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Plenary session in response to the High Representative's question of Mr Filip Andrić has been told several times to the Croatian community and once the Croatian people are named a minority. Hrvat have their communities in the United States in Canada, Germany, Austria, etc. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hrvat are a constituent people, not a minority or community. Can the Council of Ministers or the College of Parliament's House of Representatives, if the translation is correct, ask the High Representative for an explanation and warn him of the facts, and provide us with an explanation and a possible apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9148	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Bešlagić came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9149	Reading the other day information about the commissions to elect judges of so-called independent committees, I am obliged to ask a question here. Whether the establishment of independent commissions to elect judges at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entity levels respects the consistency of the people. I want a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9150	I thank you, MP Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9151	I thank the chairman. I would ask two questions, one question and one initiative. The question is what can the Council of Ministers do to address the problem of a difficult situation, above all, financial, public institutions for persons in need of special treatment, above all I mean institutions in Fojnica or Baković and Pazarić, which relate to the status of these institutions, claims from other cantons and entities as well as claims from other countries, especially neighbouring countries. In my explanation, I will briefly state that, let's say, the Department of Mental Disabilities in Fojnica has 380 protagonists from the entire former Yugoslavia, therefore, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries, with states two months ago of total marketing or debt to this institution were 1,600,000,00 KM and the result of the long-standing unsettled status of these institutions or regulated claims is that the users of services, or mentally disabled persons located in these institutions, are literally on the edge of the existence. The second question, i.e. the initiative of the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, when the Council of Ministers will prescribe procedures for donations, as well as the initiative, not the question. The procedure, therefore, for donations to NGOs 18 in order to allow for the transparency of work and to record flows of funds, therefore, and inflows and consumption based on the work of NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9152	Thank you, Mr. Muhamed Suljkanović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9153	I have one question. It's about Derk. The question is whether the registration of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity has been carried out, and who is responsible for the implementation of the law adopted in Parliament, and whether the Council of Ministers will take the procedure for impeachment of 3 appointed power transmission regulators. We appointed them when we passed the law, the law on transmission and the regulator and the operator of Bosnia and Herzegovina's electricity system was passed at the 4th month. We're at the 9th month, there's nothing done but the three operators' initiative, we've heard about that initiative, and I think we should request their impeachment by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9154	Dr. Tihomir Gligorić answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9155	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like an answer from the Council of Ministers better said by the Ministry that is a matter of the Council for Human Rights. Why, in principle, means in the municipality of Bihać Mr Adnan Alijagić discrimination against one council member Ratko Dubaić, because despite the consent of the authorised persons to be paid to the man, means travel expenses, daily work in the Assembly and commissions, means working bodies, it is not done for years. Mr Dubaić also had the opportunity to talk to Mr Sulejman Tihić, who also wanted to help and received assurances that he would get rid of it and not get rid of it. So, on this basis of human rights, you know, I thought Ministers, that it would be correct to ask Mr. Commissioner for information, there are also demands and consents to prove for the entire period of time how many sessions, commissions, etc. be correct to ask for an answer and to be paid to that person as well as to any other committee to which it is paid in accordance with the regulations relating to it. Thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9156	Thank you, Mr Gligorić. Mrs. Jelina Đurković has answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9157	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads like this. Why the Council of Ministers does not respect the constitutional principles of the constitution of the people, related to the Regulatory Agency for Communications, since the Council of those agencies consists of 3 foreigners 1 Hrvat, 2 Bošnjak and no Srbin. I'd like a written answer. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9158	I thank you, he wants to ask a question from MP Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9159	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, I would like to ask a representative question to Federal Television, specifically the editor-in-chief of Federal Television, Mrs. Marija Topić, Crnoja. My question is: Why do you allow in federal television programs the use of an unconstitutional name for Herceg Bosnian County. The name you're using is a Lithuanian canton that, by the Constitution of Herceg of Bosnian County, as far as I know, does not exist. I'm asking for a hasty interruption of the game practice and a public apology to the public of that county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9160	I thank you, who further wants to ask the question, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask two questions. At one of the last sessions of Parliament, I asked a question about the work of certain banks that have said themselves that they have become a laundry room for money laundering and undermining the foundations of this country. I've asked to question it, and I've also asked for a finger in some but I don't have an answer to this day, and I'm probably going to have a similar answer to the one I've already commented on. Today I remain on the same ground, so I ask the Council of Ministers for these to come down by competences and responsibility to launch activities on the re-examination of bank privatisation, where there is an unremembered crime and robbery of state and social property, and I will put it directly in writing and which bank I am pointing at as an example, and to cover up robbery and crime and now sell to foreign banks in order to cover up the crime and bring the savings and citizens into a very difficult situation and what kind of information we have already. I'm looking for an emergency intervention of the state and its organs on this matter, and the question is whether this action will take place and when. And the second question, how much longer does it take for this parliament to get final in addition to the orientation plan of work, because even this orientation that we have, which has come more informably does not fully fit the time, has been overcome, or is not done for it. I don't know the basis for it, whether it's someone's need, whether it's a make-up or a tenth. So we don't see the order. The product of this is also a certain delay, such as the adoption of a rebalance that was scheduled to take place in March of the month, and the adoption of a series of laws that were to be passed two or three months ago. I wonder if it's by the system that I've told you and if someone will once before this House tell you what the reason for being late this time is. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9162	Thank you, I would beg in writing a question. Thank you very much. Who's still answering to ask a question? Any demands? There isn't. I am finalising the agenda of MPs' questions and answers. I thank you for having followed the suggestion not to spend a full hour on parliamentary questions and answers. Moving to the second item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen. Ad. 2. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina delivered the decision yesterday to the House on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, after accepting the resignation of the former ministar in accordance with Article 5.4 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you know the Minister takes office after the Decision on the appointment of the House of Representatives. You're making that appointment decision, I assume you have it on you, but here's the stenogram for it I want to read it. On the basis of Article 5.4 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of Articles 5. 10 Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger" No.38/2002 and on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision to accept the resignation of Dr. Mile Gađić, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations No.01-1-361/03 of 13 August 2003, I am making a decision to appoint the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Under the 1st Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I appoint Dragan dok a graduated economist, under the 2nd decision to take effect on the day of confirmation and appointment by the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo, 08 September 2003, chairman of the Council of Ministers or Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. You've also got a short biography of candidates. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The word is requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, since you have already made the introduction, I think I just need to say that after accepting Dr. Mile Gađić's resignation as Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I have conducted consultations with political parties, I have had several talks with Mr. Dok's candidate, I have asked the OHR for 21 consent in fact to check from the OHR that I received and based on the programme offered by Minister Doko, I have decided to make a decision. He would therefore ask that Parliament confirm the decision to appoint Mr Doka as Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9164	I thank you, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who continues to answer the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9165	The word is for the chairman, Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9166	Ladies and gentlemen, I think whenever the appointments are of electoral high office that it's good to know the situation Bosnia and Herzegovina is going through reforms, that it's better to pay attention at a time before appointments and appointments rather than afterwards to realize that things are going slower, faster or not going at all. I think the Foreign Trade Ministry is an important ministry for this country and that it is also important for both the Council of Ministers and for this Parliament and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to get as many ministers as possible. I do not dispute that HDZ and representatives of the Croatian people propose a candidate, so to propose a candidate, but I want to hold a debate because it is the Minister of the Council of Ministers, the Minister who should work in the interests of all citizens and ultimately, if we stand as Parliament behind it, so is our Minister. I wish, therefore, that this biography that I had received had been at least signed, that's one thing, another thing I wish I had had the opportunity to read the programme offered by Mr. Doko, the chairman of the Council of Ministers so I could give myself up. It seems to me that the challenges facing this ministry and the new minister are great, complex and difficult and I think that after this, this biography or résumé I just think it will be very difficult and with the best desire for the ministar to make some moves, to participate in creating a reform on this sector, given the little experience in this area. We don't need people who will dress during the ministry, this is a time of rapid reforms, here they need people who understand themselves, who can carry out as easily as possible and create reforms in the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's where I have to say I'm taking my personal reserve, compared to what our obligations are to what it is to this ministry. So I wanted to say, in that sense, that it would be good if we had a debate when the appointment was held, and that the less we discuss the bad moves of any minister or government or council of ministers as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9167	I thank Mr. Špirić, he has his word again. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9168	Dr. Nijaz Duraković, please come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9169	Dear MPs, MPs, I really didn't mean to show up especially after what seems to be in advance already decided, but it's about the decision to appoint the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so one of the key sectors for this country and again I say the same thing as Mr Špirić, not the disputed right, on the contrary, I think that it also has the... the right of HDZ to propose a candidate, etc. but on the surface of the insight, I know that HDZ has much, much more qualified, more competent, professionally how you want the staff, and when you read a biography that is not even signed, you really have to laugh. Our future minister mostly says he has shown himself at the sale of, say, office and school materials, paper confections, leather gallantries, etc. I guess toilet paper, and eventually ends up as the greatest success of all the marketing work that he invented the heart of the violin, car, ball and various papals and candy in the chocolate industry in Capljina and so on. None of the experience he's supposed to have for the Foreign Trade Minister, none of what he knows about that foreign trade, none of which is whether or not he's been working at all in companies that deal with it, etc. I'm really surprised Mr. Terzić took this inter-party deal so lightly without even reading this biography. I don't know what to say, I'm, of course, showing the reserve and I would never vote for a ministar like this, with a suggestion if I have the right to the HDZ Club at all to really propose a more competent candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9170	Thank you, Dr. Duraković. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and putting this proposal on the line. Who is it to confirm the appointment of the ministar of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Dok? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, according to the results of the 37 vote, there were 19, 13 against, five abstentions. We're going to an entity statement. Who's in favor of the Federation? Who's in favour of Republika Srpska? So I figure Federation 10 was for, like, Republika Srpska 9 for. 23 I note that this proposal has been accepted and that the appointment of Mr Doka as Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been confirmed. I ask Mr. Dok if he is present to take an oath. Is there a Mr. Doka, there he is. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9171	I pledge to be conscious of my duties.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9172	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9173	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9174	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9175	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9176	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9177	Protect and defend human rights on the basis of freedom and protect the interests of the gravity of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9178	Mr. Doko, congratulations and I want successful work. Ladies and gentlemen, we're crossing the fourth item of the agenda to the third point of the agenda of the pardon A.D. 3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator and System of Electricity in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Here comes Mr. Sead Avdić. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9179	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers. While respecting the efforts of the Council of Ministers in the context of the drafting and presentation of legal projects in front of this home, however, in this case of the law amending the Law on Transfer, regulator and operator of electricity, the issue of reasons or causes motivated by the Council of Ministers that a law that has not been implemented at all, a law simply where the Regulatory Agency is not registered, where we simply have our own...obstruction of the implementation of this law is obtained by an emergency procedure of re-amendition of the Law on Operator, regulator and transmission of electricity, which means that the argumentation of the Council of Ministers which has offered why such a law under the urgent procedure under Article 105. The objectively missing, inconclusive, unargumented and cannot simply withstand any criticism, or test from the aspect of the credibility of such a proposal. In fact, objectively at the request of three appointed members of the Board of Ministers' Regulatory Agency, it accepts it as an important document, and members of the Regulatory Agency who have not yet been published in the Official Messenger allow themselves freedom, and also the right to ask the Council of Ministers to transfer the seat of the Derk from Tuzla to Sarajevo, and, after such intervention, the Council of Ministers accepts it as one of the valid reasons and gives us back the law amending the Law on the transfer of the regulator and the operator of electricity. That's one argument. All the other arguments that were offered to this home in becoming a relationship were absolutely an expression of this move by three appointed members of the Regulatory Agency, which means there is no insinuation at all, I would say, that someone would abolish aid or simple donations or simply credit anger to revive this regulatory agency unless it was in Sarajevo. On the other hand, we have accepted one strategy, this is a complex state community. With a decentralised management system, which means BH institutions, as the law says, should simply be implemented in other cities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Equally, taking care of the simple regional centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, which means what is the argument of Tuzla and Tuzlan canton of the Posava Canton, etc. is that an absolute law that has not been implemented is not it should not simply be changed. On the other hand, Tuzla is Tuzla Canton is a region that carries over 60% of electricity production, it is the center of carbon, which means there is no more logical place. That it should not be in Tuzla that it should be in Tuzla and there is simply no problem with the aspect of communication and infrastructure and invigoration of this regulatory agency. There are absolutely no reasons and arguments that there will be interference or that there is simply no direct communication with the Ministry of Foreign Trade, so please Tuzla and 25 Sarajevo it is 130 kilometers, which means that it is absolutely unacceptable this argument that is trying to enter ambiguity or cloud the opinion in terms of the decision on this law. So in the context of modern means of information technologies, it's too easy not to say the hard words stupidly to argue that there will be interference in terms of communication of the regulatory agency with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and that the Ministry of Foreign Trade who lives will not be able to manage the regulatory agency in the sense that it simply negotiates the sale of electricity, etc.itd. These are all common reasons that are for young children and are not for serious people or serious people who are professionally and scientifically considering, establishing and reviving a regulatory agency. So basically, I repeat another time not to elaborate further reasons and arguments this has partly become a political problem, the Tuzlan Canton Assembly of Canton and the Government of Tuzlan Canton, MPs coming from that area, and I think it would be the directional position of this House to insist on the chairman's initiative to vote simply on this point 2, instead of the Council of Ministers accepting this as the position of a House and to withdraw that law, he continues to insist on this law. I don't know who or what. Because it is easy to consult with members of the Council of Ministers and the law is withdrawn from the procedure. And don't go stubbornly into parliamentary procedure and demand a statement from this representative home. Because even when they did that law on amending the law, there was simply no valid argument to come before this house. So this is one document project, one document law that first appeared in this way without law enforcement. Without proving the law that it is missing in implementing that it is missing in practice, that the law proves the opposite of its own and that it cannot function we are changing the law immediately assuming that it will not be able to function as a regulatory agency if it is a centre in Tuzla or not in Sarajevo. These are ridiculous reasons for small children in the context of such means of communication and simply performing functions in this country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the absolutely unacceptable reasons of the Council of Ministers that they accepted on the initiative of three appointed members of the Regulatory Agency and to support Dr Suljkanović's request. The fact is that after such a move before being published in the Official Journal, they were not already members of the Regulatory Agency, they allow themselves freedom and simply seek a change of headquarters from Tuzla to Sarajevo. The move deserves and speaks best of these people and does not deserve to be members of the Regulatory Agency and have been given to the Council of Ministers to initiate the impeachment of these appointed members and to propose this law to us in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9180	Who's next to the word? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9181	Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Avdić has given really enough arguments and it is not necessary to repeat it and I would ask MPs to really consider that this amendment and 26 amendments to the Law on Transfer of the Regulator and Operator of the Electric Energy System have no foothold with the aim of making its seat in Sarajevo and all that is related to it. First laws are passed in the interest of citizens. What do you have on one side? It is well explained Dr Avdić said all the structures of the municipality, the canton there is the most demographically numerous, so the population within Bosnia and Herzegovina and everyone said no. The MPs here need to pass the law in the interests of all citizens and bring the opposite to the interests of both institutions and citizens in the area. I can only draw the conclusion that it's an interesting group. And that interested group must discover who is behind it, because it is obvious that citizens and their institutions are not being respected that are looking for something quite the opposite. I beg you, I appeal to you it's not a good policy. I am particularly talking about the congregation majority. You're passing the law if we were like some normal country where there's an analysis of how people are going to receive some law so that we have such a procedure as in Switzerland that in a pub they can run an initiative and bring down a law that's unnatural, non-citizen, etc. And we have a very clear situation here. Contrary to the citizens in favour of an interest group. And I ask you, please, don't let us fall under either the party or the congregation's majority, but we all decide how it is, and that's to give support to the MPs from Canton Tuzla. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9182	I thank Mr. Gligorić, the word was sought by Mr. Križanović. I would ask MPs to switch off mobile phones preferably or preferably as little use as possible. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9183	I would like to fully agree with the argument made by colleagues both Avdić and Gligorić, and in that sense I would just like to point out something that will be objectively waiting for us in the future. Given the nature of Bosnia and Herzegovina's complexity of its structure, hers we will have to get used to that many, the headquarters of many institutions need to be outside Sarajevo. Outside Sarajevo, and here's Banja Luka. These are not the only two centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that such treatment will be seen by other centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is Travnik, Mostar, Zenica and Bihac, and I think we need to get used to it. In that sense, I will fully support the proposal coming from colleagues from the Tuzla region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9184	Thank you, Mr. Križanović, for reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9185	Chairman of the dom, Mr. Špirć has his word. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9186	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to talk about this issue, but it seems to me that a rather negative political atmosphere may have been created regarding the request of the Council of Ministers and, on the other hand, the request of the Cantonal authorities from the Tuzla Canton. What I think I'm saying is that the time has come for us to stop being hypocritical when it comes to politics that is in the interest of citizens. This parliament once made a decision. The Council of Ministers is now seeking to amend the same decision under Article 105, without someone coming here today and facing the authorities of Canton Tuzle sending a message to the citizens why it is better in Sarajevo, or why it is not good to keep it in Tuzla. I will support Article 105, and I will vote against this request by the Council of Ministers or remain on the same principle that I stood for when I voted to be in Tuzla. But please, please, this same parliamentary majority has to come to collage today with what the executive authority is offering them, and I don't think it's good today, so it's not good to do a specific kind of bidding that's for this region, who's for that region. I expected there to be a game of arguments here today, and what I'm looking for and I'm starting the initiative is, we've chosen and confirmed members of the Regulatory Agency. So they did not respect the law passed by this parliament. Do we have the strength today, and this will be the best support for those who think to work past the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina to suspend this will and to say that we will choose three new regulators who will respect these laws of this country in the interests of citizens. Unless we are able to send such a message, I think citizens and Tuzla and Tuzla Canton and Bosnia and Herzegovina will finally understand what kind of representatives the authorities have received. So, we decide. We decide, if someone could have been disabling the public for three months or a half a year, not to revive Tuzla's office, to show whether or not they can or can't, and to convince us MPs and to say that gentlemen need to go to Sarajevo for these and those reasons. So here we have an absolute obstruction of those we've confirmed. It seems that the gentlemen do not live in Tuzla, it seems much nicer to live in Sarajevo, or it is easier to live in Sarajevo, or many when they are promised to settle in Sarajevo and prepare for people to live in Sarajevo. But if there were any luck and we were taking care of the construction of our country then there wouldn't be a chance after the war when the state was destroyed that someone was choosing a bear to rot the pears, so he says I will, here I won't. I'm an expert here, I'm an expert here if I'm in Sarajevo, but if I'm in Sarajevo in Tuzla, I'm not an expert, or if I'm in Banja Luka or if I don't know what. So, I'm initiating the initiative, so I'm in favour of Article 105. I will ostaću in the position that I pleaded last time to stay in Tuzla and initiate the initiative, and I am asking for the conclusion that we have voiced no confidence in the Commission we have appointed. Thank you very much. Mr Jusufović Munib answered for the word, and let Mrs Seada Paravlić be prepared. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think that this one, and you are now helping me with exactly what I was about to say. My colleague Avdić gave a certain argument, I would not talk about it, I mean this, and I will be on the same background as Mr Špirić's chairman. It's a matter of principle. If it is both the House and the other House, then Parliament has made such a decision, then let's learn to respect one another. It is precisely today that we need to learn whether we will respect ourselves or accept any intrusion from any of the quantifiers. It's a primordial question not only today, but perhaps in the future. If we don't respect ourselves today, if we respect the decisions we've made, then it would be good to waste ourselves, then we don't have to rebel today, which is this, High Representative, when we asked when we're going to decide something, etc. Let us at least respect ourselves in these matters, and that is my basic message, and therefore I am for the sake of Parliament's respect, principle, from today and in the future. I also agree, and yet in order to respect this Parliament, to put on the agenda a vote on the Commission to replace the proposed team, because absolutely let it be a warning to others that these people here whom the people have chosen and we have them on a proposal from someone, that they must once respect these institutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9188	I thank Mr. Jusufović, who further says Mrs. Palavrić, who continues to answer the word? Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9189	I'm Tuzlanka. So, on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I would like to say that this club will not support the amendment of the law amending the Law on Transfer of Regulators and Operators of the Electricity System in BiH, not at all, for reasons I do not know which reasons the membership of the Directorate we have chosen, I do not know what the reasons for the Ministry of Foreign Policy are but as a person who was born in Tuzla and spent her life in Tuzla I know that there is no city in Bosnia and Herzegovina that suffers more adverse consequences than electricity production. And when it comes to mines that work for the thermal power plant and about the thermal power plant itself and the spaces around it. The only thing that could have been disputed earlier was the question of whether the Tuzlan authorities were ready to secure the headquarters of this agency. The Tuzlan authorities have been clearly identified and are willing to take over the headquarters of this Directorate without any dilemma. On the proposal that appears here to replace the members of this agency, which we have chosen and at the same time we are calling for decisions that we have made to respect them and the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we do not put such things to the statement, because it is clear who is proposing to replace the members of the Directorate and how the proposals come to this Parliament. If these members feel that their headquarters in Tuzla does not suit them, they may resign. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9190	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9191	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when I received the material of this bill, so I thought it was really a mistake, so I even asked for the phone to call the sekretarijat to ask if someone accidentally pushed it into the material, something had already been done. If this law hadn't even started to apply, and someone had brought it back and there are dozens on hold and you heard today Mr. High Representative hundreds of reform and system laws that can't come to order, and we're turning the laws that we've passed to make headquarters and offices for certain people who have already settled in this agency. I think it is really inappropriate, that it is the act of this Parliament, and I am particularly surprised that in this kind of work, certain international associations, such as USEID, such as the European Bank for Development, are going so far as to manipulate and with such institutions in order to achieve such somewhat unbulful demands, demands through this Parliament. The arguments offered under the law not only do they not stand. But one sentence there is only offensive to those people there in Canton Tuzlanski, because they say they're only able to work, I translate, and this rest is not capable, it's going to be done by someone else. I think it's really beyond reason when such arguments are put on. This law, therefore, is not based on valid arguments and I call on this Parliament not to accept it and fully accept the already stated conclusion of Mr. Chairman Špirić to do so and to reject it by Article 105 and to call off the members of the agency at least in that area in which we have strength and opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9192	I thank Mr. Moranjkić, for his word, Mr. Izet Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9193	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, this House would like today to have this House at the height of the task and, through the example of this act, to send several important messages, which is that we are very principled that when we bring in in principle a document such as this law, we want to stay in our position, that we will not hesitate before any lobbying that was inconclusive when it comes to telling USEID and European Bank documents that this law is coming back again to change its seat. And of course it is another important message that the MPs of this House in the House of Representatives are willing to give importance to regional centres and to the transfer of no inctivities to the regional centres that this one normally, and institutions can function normally and will not interfere with the development of society and state. And I have answered the goal that really this is, given that the transfer here from Tuzla to Sarajevo is this legal act, this one to call on my colleagues to mean that even though 30 of us remain principled to support whether the seat is in Tuzla, that this and this act and our statement to call for us to remain principled and to support and send a message that we want to mean one part of regional strengthening in the organisation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9194	I thank Mr. Hadžić, the word is Mr. Mišić Nenad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9195	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, listening to this discussion and wasting time really extremely precious in view of this large agenda, this Parliament as the first and largest legislative body of this country, should never and should not allow this again. We have discussed this, voted and now dared, even if it was the Council of Ministers, to return it back to us here, and I am in my earlier discussion, although I rarely report I always said that I would fight as a member of this Parliament that this Parliament is older than the Council of Ministers, to know who it was and how it came about and who it was that elected. Therefore, this law here, which has been passed before us today, I propose that the bill be adopted in accordance with Article 105 and that we do not accept it in this text or that we reject it and end this story and practice, unless that law is implemented after today's vote, then we should withdraw the question of the members of the Commission or those who do not implement it. I think this should be our advice on how we shouldn't work. And here's how much time we've lost, how many points of the agenda are waiting for us. If the law applies and any argument shows that it is not good that it is in Tuzla, I will be the first to return to Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9196	I thank Mr. Mišić, is there anyone else who can answer the word? There isn't. I'm closing the hearing, ladies and gentlemen. Now I suggest we get to the bottom of this. Who is it that, firstly, we decide on a proposal from the Council of Ministers to amend the Law on Transfer to Operator and Electricity Regulator in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so who is it that we are discussing this law under Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. 31 I find that with 35 votes for and 1 against, we have decided to discuss this proposal by the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Now we move on, ladies and gentlemen, to plead on the request of the Council of Ministers, therefore, now on the law. Who is in favour of adopting this law as suggested by the Council of Ministers? Who's in? Here's your Council of Ministers, who's in favour? There's no one for it. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I agree that with 35 votes against and 1 abstention, we voted in a way that confirmed the Parliament's decision that we made at the previous vote to have the Agency's headquarters in Tuzla. Ladies and gentlemen, as a proposing, I had the idea to raise the question of the responsibility of the members of the Commission who did not implement the part of the law relating to their work. I do not insist, of course, that we vote on it but I think it would be good for the Commission to learn from this vote and the Council of Ministers to draw a lesson from this vote. This is not a good message for how it works and relations with Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina representative council. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. The request of MP Nikola Špirić for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Immunity, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the bill you've won. As you've seen, it's a law declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative. My intention was to make these 4-5 laws declared by the High Representative and where I feel the need to make amendments, to change the laws to simply propose by the procedure of Article 105, because there is no other procedure, so that Parliament can be active in relation to those laws that the High Representative has imposed. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Jovanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9197	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to say and what I would like to say is that it looks like the new chairman has come, that we have whether it's a kind of saving this one, which is probably commendable, and the second one would like to ask him if he's turned into those 18 mailmen, or whether he's among those 18 mailmen who carry the mail from the OHR to this Parliament, and you believe me now for a reason I doubted and what the chairman was telling us last night that the visok Representative sent a letter here, wanted to say 32 to us and you probably heard that the High Representative thanked us for inviting him, probably that he was invited by Mr Špirić and when he was with him, he probably brought the materials here and to tell us. And what may be most important here in Article 3 to say is the MPs of the House of Peoples, as far as I know, means they are not MPs of the House of Peoples, but delegates of the House of Peoples mean in this law, so Article 3 should probably change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9198	I'll take my word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9199	Mr. Nikola Špirić, Chairman of the House has a need for replay, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9200	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I had no intention of replaying, but Mr. Jovanović is always suitable when we need to make a little more cheerful atmosphere in this House, so here today I have the honour to tell him that what I am doing is different from what the SDS is doing in this House and that I am happy about it. So, I have the honor of being different from what you SDS are doing and that's what makes me different and I'm happy that it is. And I don't think that's what you're doing to expose me to criticism or ridicule in that way, but I think there's another way. If you suggest some other way that's in line with the Rules of Procedure, I'll be happy to say that I admire your genius and that I'll adopt that way, but there's no other way. I Učinić do everything to make sure that other legal projects imposed by the High Representative confirm this Parliament so that we can change them in the interests of citizens, because they are not ideal laws. We've been hiding for a long time for SDS policy nonsense and we've come into chore-sock. I don't think I should follow that, but all your regal initiatives, be sure I'll put as chairman on the agenda, so let the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina admire your genius or let another court say it again. When it comes to calling for the Plenary Session, I wish you had the courage to ask that question when the High Representative was here, but you're not the brave one. No, believe me, a lot of people were killed for politics by pushing the brave forwards, so we can talk about it later. The High Representative has asked to address Parliament. I thought he should only address this home, but the conversation was also with the House of Peoples, and I accepted that, of course, because I assumed he should talk about reforms like the High Representative did. I wouldn't mind if I called him. If that invitation of mine will help make things clearer for us and for the citizens. The High Representative is aware that today he will learn from all this he has done, whether we have done a good job together or not. So, I wouldn't mind if I made the call, but everywhere in diplomatic circles, 33 is the order to say thank you for inviting me, because the uninvited has no place, but Mr. Jovanović, it's when you're ready to organize which course to give you a little and instruct you not to be a distraction to yourself and you can't do this parliament because he has most of it, and whenever you're ready for a rerun, we can do it outside of this room so we don't burden our colleagues and the public with this state. What's certain is that we differ in political platforms, we differ in the way of decision-making, relationship-to-law, and that's good for this country. It would be illogical for everyone to think like SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9201	I thank you, Novaković asked for a rerun.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9202	The word was received by Mr. Novaković, so Mrs. Palavrić, so Beriz Belkić, reprika Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9203	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, of course I agree with Mr Špirić and, above all, in the fact that we are different. And I'm glad if that's the case, even though we got along so well with each other once in a while. But, well, time goes by, attitudes change, opinions etc. It's all that, we're all prone to change and attitudes and opinions are subject to change, and I didn't answer for it, of course, this one to recite to my friend Špirić, I really mean to my friend Špirić, but I came to tell him that there was no need to mention the SDS 8 times in one such brief and inspired presentation, or that's the inspiration that it takes to say something like this or whether those three letters are necessary for one such inspiration. We didn't mention SNSD as far as I know Mr. Jovanović didn't mention it, and of course not thinking anything bad or anything good, but his discussion as far as I understand it was directed in another direction. And that is that the Serbian Democratic Party is not and will never vote for imposed law, but we want for all those laws that we agree on here. That's our attitude, that's our principled attitude. We don't care if anyone else supports that attitude or not. It didn't matter to us until now, and we voted exactly like that. We don't even care if our people in the House of Nations support that attitude. Why? Because there are other principles, other methods. We don't want to break those laws, we want to make it clear in principle that the laws we need here to bring, and on that background we're all together seem to be here today. What we had to tell the High Representative is what we said. I don't mind the High Representative having every other session or every one of us here with us. I even think he'd be helpful to us sometimes. But it really doesn't make sense that one discussion of this discussion of the chairman is directed in that direction in which she was directed. 34 I would ask for seriousness and work, etc. here that such a relationship, which I have asked several times for some other MPs here, such a relationship is not our practice, means that we change this relationship and many times we have said that we want to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9204	I thank Mr. Novaković. I am for changes in relationships, but they must be mutual and here we must sit here respecting the function we perform and what kind of relationship you will have with Nikola Špirić personally it is of course your personal matter. I am that they are related in the interest of respect and never speak of me at least did not go in that tone, but when someone directly asks me I belong to such people to respond without intent to hurt anyone. So, here's my thanks to Mr. Novaković, who's still answering for the word? He sought Jovanović's replica, and I apologize to the replica of the sea, given that I am an object, Mr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9205	Well, I'm a man who respects the function by nature but precisely because of the function where you sit, Mr. Chairman, and because of the public, someone brought me these Independent newspapers, although I don't read them, it's probably your newspaper and what's devastating is that you're sitting here when a journalist asked you about the functioning of the government, you said that on the scene there's a power that kills, that haunts, that steals and robs. If you deserve that place where you're sitting, and you say that, then it means there's really people here to assess if that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9206	I thank you, I think you always have the legal right to launch an initiative when it comes to me, and I will never challenge that right, but I said that if you have something that's beyond this point and beyond this agenda we can not burden our colleagues, I'm prepared for it. Mr Gligorić, in terms of false allegations, said I apologize to my colleagues who have applied for the discussion, prayed that the sayings should be made when it comes to bringing this in as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9207	Ladies and gentlemen, it is false of Mr. Novaković to say that they do not accept SDS as imposed solutions and that this is the principle of their work. That's absolutely not true. Remember how many times under pressure you have accepted something that has come to grips with your attitudes, public attitudes that you have spoken many times. And I just don't understand what you're talking to the MPs here today about your consistency as if 35 are now a pre-election campaign, so you came to an x village and you're talking to those people who don't get the information in five years. So pick a place to talk. I do not dispute you politically to come and tell stories and stories there as you know it in the villages, but do not here in this House because we are participants in the way you acted and how you voted and how you served and how you created one political half-tronity to the limit. And you have no right to speak in this House of Your Consistency. You can't tell me yourself that I'm always on my own with a socialist party, I've never changed parties like you who've changed. Therefore, I have the right to tell you because of the consistency of a consistent policy that you call upon and you have no right. So what Mr. Špirić was telling you, you gave your argument, okay. We can go back to normal debate now. But you just need to know that you can't say one thing as you speak in public and the other you do, and that's why you want to get public support for all this work. Therefore, I ask you to continue in the future with this course of serenity, obedience, the course of this mobile phone and giving instructions from Banja Luka and thus I see that you have results. You've also become reform parties, etc. Don't reach for that story again before and make a capital for a moment here you forgot that you buried your national stories and now you want to be one citizen party and I wish you a happy time on it. And don't just come in here inside this parliament to replace the thesis, at least not you from the SDS. I've got a lot to tell you, but I'm not going to do it because of the situation we're in and where we're at as part of the agenda. Expecting that Mr. Novaković will, and I know that he will answer with confidence, give me a chance for a replica, and I'll say the part that will bury you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9208	I'd like to beg, please, just a little patience to get back to the agenda. If I may ask my colleagues not to replicate. I didn't mean to give a ton to any replicas or answers. I have answered only a direct question to me and I regret that whenever an MP reaches out to the team, I will answer him directly. And please, Mr. Novaković, if possible, you will open new replicas. You want to replicate. I have a business obligation to give you a replica, but I ask you to stick to the replica and the curve and never give up on the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9209	I'm convinced I'm not going to open new replicas, this one, and that's why I came out, otherwise I think I'm going to open up really wouldn't come out. I don't understand this, just where Mr. Gligorić found himself when I was talking about SDS and SNSD, and I really don't understand that story right now, or even the SNSD I wasn't talking about. And now I really don't get it. Is that a matter of principle that it's not this, that this man didn't find himself in principle. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9210	I thank Mr. Novaković, if we can stop here with this to give our word to Mr. Beriz Belkić. The word came from Seada Palavrić. Can he wait for Mr. Avdić to finish his speech please? No Avdić, Mr. Belkić, I apologize no, not only for you, but we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9211	To try and get back to work, we will support all these requirements that are heading towards so I say taking over the law that Mr. Eždaun imposed, but this one I would like to remind you that the extended College of this House of Representatives has established on May 12th the orientation plan of work. The orientation plan lists 19 laws that this home will assume as its own. I'm asking you to do this part of the job today and make sure that we make sure that all that's left unaccepted is put here in the process and that we come in a position to discuss these legal projects in a very serious way and see what it is that needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9212	I thank Mr. Belkić, Mr. Glilorić is entitled to a replica, but I would ask you not to open discussions that are off-limits.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9213	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I've come forward because of principle, given that the Socialist Party is particularly authentic, etc. So you don't have to tie it to SNSD. We think for ourselves, but when we talk about principle, then it would be good to return Mr. Zivkovic to the Independent newspaper because you told Mr. Jovanović not to read and read Independent newspapers. If we made a joke, you didn't buy it and you read it. And something else when I was saying don't be afraid when I say this, about the funeral of political etc. In fact, I only thought in one sentence that your policy was missed and those who are tied to you will also be undertakers in Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9214	I thank you, please continue not to undermine the replicas, the word is Mrs. Sead Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9215	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you know that points 3 and 4, 5 and 6 of the laws declared by the High Representative, you know well how many shortcomings such laws have but you also know that these shortcomings cannot be eliminated until we confirm those laws. So, we did not want these laws to be in force and are valid on a temporary basis until the Parliamentary Assembly adopts them in the same text. So I appeal to you all that 37 of these points we are not having a debate but also to plead on behalf of the SDA Club that we will support all four of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9216	Thank you. Who's on the phone for the word? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. We're approaching the plea. Who is it that adopts Nikola Špirić's request to consider the Proposal for an Immunity Act under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So there are 30 MPs present, 25 votes against one, abstention four. So I realize that we have adopted the principle of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to another statement. Who is in favour of adopting the Proposal for an Immunity Act under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105, the law to be adopted? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I ask the MPs to exercise the right to vote. So, of the 30 MPs, 23 for, 5 abstentions. I find that the Immunity Act has been passed and has an entity majority. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 5. MP Nikola Špirić's request for a review of the Bill on the Registration of Legal Persons by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Your Rules of Procedure have been informed that it is a law declared by the High Representative and I am opening a debate on this proposal. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is to consider MP Nikola Špirić's request to discuss the Bill on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish BiH institutions under Article 105. Rules of Procedure? 38 Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, the 31st ambassador voted 26 against one, abstention four. I konstatuj that it has most and entityal and most of this proposal we move on to a second statement. Who is it for us to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 31 MPs who voted 26 were in favour, I've seen one against, but the addition is not good, and five abstentions, but if so I ask you, 25 for, 1 is against, 5 abstentions. I find that the Bill on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish BiH institutions has been adopted and has both the majority and the entity majority. We're moving on to Ad. Six. MP Nikola Špirić's request to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Ministerial Names, appointments of the Council of Ministers and mocking appointments in BiH by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. I also inform you that this is a law imposed by the High Representative and that today we are considering it by the procedure of Article 105. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. He's closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is to consider MP Nikola Špirić's request for consideration of the proposal for a Law on Ministerial Names, appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments in BiH, by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Of the 31 MPs who voted, it was 26 against 1.4 abstentions. I find that we have both the majority and the entity majority. So, we've adopted Article 105's procedure. 39 We move to a statement. Who is in favour of adopting the proposal for a Law on Ministerial Names, appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments in BiH. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Just a little bit please we have a quorum, I'm asking you to take a break when we estimate it's useful. I don't mind anyone asking, but I think we should finish these laws before we break. So, I would like to inform you that 31 MPs voted in favour of 26, no, four abstentions. I agree that we have both the majority entity and the majority and I conclude that a proposal for a Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments in BiH has been adopted. We're moving on to Ad. Seven. MP Nikola Špirić's request for an examination of the Amendments and Supplements Act on BiH's state official institutions under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also received an explanation, and it is also a legislative project that has been imposed by the High Representative and my request for today's discussion that we adopt it in the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'll close the debate and we'll go to the hearing. Who is it to consider Nikola Špirić's request for an examination of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the BiH State Official Institution, as referred to in Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Give me the results of the vote. So of the 33 MPs present, 28 voted in favour, against 1.4 abstentions. I figure we have most of the entity and most of the majority. We're going to definitely make a statement about the law. 40 Who is it for us to adopt the Proposal for a Law on designations and additions to the Law on BiH State Official Institutions? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 33 MPs present, 28 voted in favour, against none, with abstentions 5. I konstatuj that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Official Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. We're moving on to Ad.8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. The draft emergency law has been passed to you, ladies and gentlemen, on September 4th. I'm opening a debate. Who's up for that? So I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt a proposal from the Council of Ministers to propose a law amending the Law on Associations and Foundations under Article 105? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 35 present, 34 were for, against wasn't anyone, abstention 1. We also have a parliamentary majority and an entity majority. We're moving on to a plea. So, in a definite version. Who is it for us to adopt a bill amending the Law on Associations and Foundations by emergency procedure? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 33 present, 32 were for, 1 against, there were no abstentions. So I realize that we also have a parliamentary majority and an entity majority. We move to a statement, so it was a declaration of a definitive version of the law. 41 So we move to A.D. 9. The request of MP Seade Palavrić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Col. Palavrić proposal was accepted to Parliament on 29 August, and you received it on 1 September 2003. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Mrs. sada Palavrić answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9217	Thank you very much. Let me just remind you that here it is indeed, that this is about a bill that fully meets the requirements to be considered under Article 105, because it is only about amendments to two members of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the first member of the stenogram, I must add another amendment to this law, therefore, to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions published in "Official Messenger" No. 1202,1902 and 803 in Article 4 and the Ombusman in addition to other persons who are already exempt from the application of this law and Ombusmen Bosnia and Herzegovina is exempt from this law. Although it is in some sense under the Ombusmen law of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a special law that the Venice Commission made clear that Ombusmen Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a civil servant, however, since members of the Presidency and we as representatives and judges of the state courts and Governor of the Central Bank are also excluded here, it is still necessary to add Ombusmen Bosnia and Herzegovina for clarity. And the second amendment is in article 6. Article 6 states who is exempt from the application of this law, i.e. who is not considered a civil servant, and among other things are listed as Central Bank staff, and Bosnia and Herzegovina's human rights personnel are not listed. I think it is most appropriate and appropriate that the personnel of Ombusmen Bosnia and Herzegovina be treated as a civil servant, because imagine the situation in which Ombusman, who under the law Ombusman has the right to choose staff and be his boss and his task is to exercise control, to promote human rights and the rule of law in BiH, monitors the activities of all public authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Imagine now that this staff for the chief has a director of the state service agency instead of Ombusman Bosnia and Herzegovina. With my colleagues talking about this law, I saw that what they were worried about as much as I was funding that staff, or the height of their salaries. I must remind you 42 that the Ombusman of Bosnia and Herzegovina Act provides for budžet Ombusman to be approved by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So every year Ombusman must offer a financial plan, i.e. to show his needs and offer the presidency to approve such a budget. The presidency therefore has control over these salaries not to be inappropriate and not to be as they are now with the entity ombusman situation more than the salaries of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I hope you will support this bill and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9218	I would like to thank Mrs. Palavrić, who is still answering for her word. Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9219	Dear Presidency, I would like to say exactly what Mrs. Palavrić has made her own point, it's an Ombusman staff issue. So, I support this proposal to exempt Ombusman, but it's a matter of staff. So, the people who are employed in Ombusman's office. In fact, what is happening is that we here in Parliament very often accept institutions and these institutions remain out of the system. So every institution has to be subject to some control. Ombusman, I, I am sorry to suggest this today, did not have the opportunity to consult the Ombusman Law and I do not remember the solution, I think that Parliament should have control over Ombusman, or that this Parliament should benefit from the systematization and systematization of Ombusman's affairs, because this act opens up the possibility of hiring people as much as Ombusman wants. It's about hiring people, it's about pay. You know that Ombusman has a pretty high salary, so, if all the staff employed there, which is typical administrative staff, will also have high wages. Therefore, I suggested on the break Mrs. Palavrić that this change goes in line with Article 104, that we see the situation with it. So, I'm not absolutely not that Ombusman's exception, but to look at some more non-sequences of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9220	I thank Professor Kunić. I think these are useful suggestions, and here the atmosphere is created to adopt this, but I think it's good to open the dilemmas because if someone can hire outside of this, then Parliament is created and we can create a problem in the long run. I am really about the ombusman to exempt themselves, but I think this is really a staff dilemma, so there's this dilemma, but here's who's coming forward for the word, that because we're going to get into a situation where the budget will be small for, who's next to the word?, Mr. Novaković and Mrs. Palavrić has the need to answer. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9221	I would just like to state the position of the Serbian Democratic Party, which is that, for us, the acceptable Article 1 means that the amendment of the law, and that Article 2 is also disputed for the reasons already mentioned, which Mr Kunić here has, therefore, stated and I think that the chairman, Mr Špirić, has therefore supported, and my suggestion to Mrs Palavrić, if he can therefore make his request, this one, by Article 105, turn into a loan under Article 104 in order to get the possibility, therefore, that we should act in amendment to this second member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9222	I thank Mr. Novaković, Mrs. accepts here's Mrs. Sead, so I think we've solved the problem, so she's recanting her request to discuss it by procedure 104 here to plead, there's no need then today because she'll have all the opportunity to, who's for the procedure of Article 104? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the request of Parliamentarian Seade Palavrić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We move to the tenth, thank Mrs Palavrić for accepting suggestions and allowing us to finish the agenda most efficiently. We're moving on to Ad. Ten. The proposal for a Law on Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, is proposed by Dr. Sead Avdić. The proposal of the Labour and Employment Act, ladies and gentlemen, was adopted in Parliament on 31.12.2002, to MPs, or to you on 13 January 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 5 February 2003. A report by the Constitutional and Legal Committee was submitted to the MPs on 9 April 2003, at the 12th session of this House on 22 April 2003, a delay in considering this law with the conclusion that the proposal for a bill was sent to the Council of Ministers to give an opinion within 30 days. The opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Bill's Proposal has not yet been received. As you have seen in the Report, the competent Commission on Human Rights for Immigration, Refugees and Asylum adopted the draft law in the proposed text. In May, the bill promoter, Dr. Sead Avdić, submitted amendments to the Bill's proposal by calling at point 3A of Article 94. Rules of Procedure. I'm just saying this by giving you information on the bill's proposal because amendments are not the subject of first reading debate. 44 I hope that this useful information will help you to conduct an effective debate today regarding this law and with this intention these notes are given. I'm opening a debate on the tenth point of the agenda. Who's answering for a word? I suggest we end this legal procedure until we form an investigative committee, end the 10th and 11th points, then we take a break for lunch and continue to work, if you agree, I think that would be best. Thank you very much, thank you for understanding. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. So, I conclude, this is Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Novaković and Sead Avdić. I'm sorry I didn't see that, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9223	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, I have no reason to particularly explain to you, nor to return to the constitutional and legal basis, so the reasons for the adoption of this law, you have heard which procedure simply goes through the examination of this law, with the fact that the law has been partly and publicly discussed, the laws of the work of the Trade Unions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the result of the work of the experimental groups that have worked within the Trade Union, and in this context, it is not my own law project and observe it in this regard. I would only point out in this first reading that the debate simply led to these 13 amendments, which I have put on the law, avoiding some remarks and members of the Human Rights Commission, etc. which means that we tried to do everything on our part to get the law in this form, be as high-quality and as easy as possible and the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would just point out that reminding you, however, was only an obligation to adopt this law, you know, when there since December of '99, in line with the decisions of the Madrid Conference, which obliged Bosnia and Herzegovina to pass a law on work at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus allowing the continuity of international legal, continuity in this area and on the other hand reminding you that we had passed the Law on Agency for Ra's back and employment, which is more than before this law which is illogical and which is also simply non-consumptions in the sense that we had no labour law. The labour law accepts everything that it says about the objectives, principles, social partnership and the labour market, this law only regulates the basic issues of the functioning of the labour market in Bosnia and Herzegovina and everything else simply at the level of the entity and in this context there is no controversy, nor does it conflict with the relationship between the laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the law at the level of the entity. It is objectively arranged that work in the field of work and employment is governed by the basics and employment policies and the basis of the social care of unemployed workers, the basics of early relations, the rules on the prohibition of discrimination in respect of 45 employment, the basic social security of unemployed persons, compulsory insurance for unemployment, the achievement of equal guaranteed basic rights of employees, the obligation of employers to report jobs, the surplus of workers and the payment of contributions for unemployment insurance is established, the institution of the labour market in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, it is quite clear from this that these principles, which are partly in line with the principles of the European Community, and it is said in instructions to Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Madrid Declaration that simple standards of the European Community of normal European integration are being used which we seek and which we simply adapt to our ligostatism, in this context we also adopted 65 conventions of the International Labour Organisation, and this law is based on these principles. So there is nothing controversial about the aspect of the fundamentals on which this law is based, meaning they are based on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, on the standards of the European Community and on reality, simply present in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would also say the dominant and political reasons that ask this parliament to respond to this law is simply social unrest that has spread to Bosnia and Herzegovina these months warn that it is necessary to adopt such a document. Whether he is perfect, whether he is ideal is not safe, whether he is open to not all critical remarks it. But it is essential that Bosnia and Herzegovina has such a law on work at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And to say in the end, the fundamental human right is not only the right to live but also the right to work, and that right to work is simply to the most extent regulated by this law on labour and employment at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9224	I thank Mr. Avdić, who continues to answer the word? Mr. Novaković, I apologize, Mr. Novaković has been registered but I haven't seen the hand, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9225	Because it's better not to rephrase, then the chairman doesn't see when he answers his word. Dear colleagues, I must first say that there is a very controversial constitutional basis for the adoption of this law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasoning that the legislator gave is very, very disputable and as I tried to look at it, I find it unacceptable. Of course, this home here on this agenda does not establish a constitutional basis, therefore it is determined by the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission and on that side there is nothing disputed. That's why the law is here today, but other than the constitutional legal basis for me here, the reasons and even the principles on which this law rests and the reasons for this law being passed. 46 I am aware that this area is exclusively in the jurisdiction of entities, and that there are entity laws on work and employment that have been done again as far as I am aware under the watchful eye of the representatives of the International Community. I also know that these laws are fully in line with the 88th and 122 and that they do not in any way violate human rights. It is true that part of the jurisdiction exists, that some issues could not be regulated at the entity level and that they should have been regulated at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been passed, which has actually been resolved and transferred to the authority of this agency. That's why we don't think that the argument that was made here is valid enough, so that this law gets support in the first reading. Of course, every club and every MP will plead in the way he thinks it is, I here state the position of the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, so we are, we will be against the adoption of this law because I repeat that in addition to the disputed one, in addition to the disputed one, constitutional basis are even more controversial reasons for the adoption of this law and they do not stand here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9226	I thank Mr. Novaković, who continues to answer the word? As far as I can tell, there's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Let's go make a statement about the law in the first reading. Who is it that the proposal for the Law on Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina is adopted by Dr. Sead Avdić on the principles of general principles? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 36 MPs 22 was for, 8 was against, 4 were abstentions. So we have a majority and we move on to an entity vote. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for this law? Who is from Republika Srpska for this law? 22 of the Federation were in favour, from Republika Srpska 1. So the law goes 2 out of Republika Srpska for, the law goes to alignment. I suggest that this alignment is yes, but you see we are obliged to do business either in a break or within three days. So it would have to be a session in three days. I suggest that we try to agree immediately, if we don't agree immediately, so we don't, of course we don't have to give up, please, we do a little bit of seriousness, because fatigue has overcome everything, so there's no agreement. 47 colleagues we're going to definitely pleading. Who's the Federation against? No one's against it. Who's from Republika Srpska against? No, don't let the rest of me do my job, they have counters that count. So the Federation doesn't mind. From Repbulika Srpska 11 v. I find that the Proposal for a Law on Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina was not adopted in the first reading of Dr Sead Avdić's proposal. We're moving on to Ad.11. The proposal for a Law on Judicial Taxes before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading, therefore, was proposed by the Council of Ministers by law on 27 June 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 9 July this year, the financial and budgetary committee responsible. The committee's report was sent to lawmakers on August 25th of this year. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers want to clarify the principles of the law? If you don't feel the need, then there's no demands. I agree. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Moranjkgić, then Mr. Jusufovi, and he's not answering.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9227	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, basically when I looked at the whole of this proposed law, I could conclude that the taxes are still high, high if I'm allergic to that tax because it's now in the world, in the municipalities it's a heist robbery of people via that cab or something else but I can do with this law and charges to connect two negative connotations. And that's that they protect an inefficient court as it is, because there are no countermeasures and compensations, and they allow the robbery of citizens, the taking of money from the same for the wrong, bad, untimely, not effective trial because for everyone and for the bad trial they pay taxes and they repeat themselves indefinitely and in the circle, and they are enormous to me. Contra-taxes should also be introduced for the trial of a solution that falls as a rotten pear in conscientious judges who are very little, unfortunately in this time, and then repeated in the processes. Now, the Court's fees are paid by me exclusively to the value of the lawsuit, which if a man looks at that only argument has no grounds to be the basis for paying a fee, I think it would be far better if those fees were related to the efficiency and correct 48 trials that should be done and executed in the judiciary. This way, I think it's big and it's counterproductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9228	Thank you Mr. Moranjkić, is anyone else answering for the debate? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to the Proposal of the Law on Judicial Taxes in the case before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading. Who is it for us to adopt this law in our first reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Of the 36 present 34 was for, no one was against, two were abstentions. So I realize that we adopted the Bill on Court Taxes in the Court of First Reading procedure, so we passed the law in principle. Now comes phase two of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been working intensively, I suggest we take a 45-minute break for the MPs to have lunch and freshen up a little bit. So please, at exactly the time that we're at 4:15 in the O.R. so that we can successfully bring this session to an end by about 6:00, 7:00 p.m. Thank you very much for your break, then, 45 minutes. I suggest we move on with our work, I guess we freshen up a little bit and rest, and we'll bring this session to an end effectively. Moving to Ad.12. The formation of an investigative commission to investigate allegations that the MP of this home has tried to organise a coup the Proposer of this point is the SDP MPs' Club. Please advise whether he feels the need to explain this request for, feels. Mr. Jozo Križanović came to the floor. I'd like to beg a little, please, just a little seriousness to listen to each other, Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, respecting the fact that we still have a lot of work to do today, that we are already in some sixth, 49th hour of work, and I would first of all like to thank you for the exchange and support that this point be included in today's agenda. I will not repeat the reasons and reasons for the inclusion that we have all agreed on, and in order to rationalise the closure of this point you today have and a divided proposal on the formation of this coalition. There is, of course, given in several points the aim and purpose of this commission's work, its composition, the way it works, that it is public and that it should end within 30 days. All the other things I'd like to convince you, I think you have before you a very concise and precise written wording and suggestions and methods of working this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9230	I thank Mr. Križanovič, who continues to answer the word? Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9231	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the question that we are now starting to debate is not to be particularly convincing is one very important and very important question and I am afraid this parliament will not be in a position to fall into the trap that Parlamnt becomes unserious when this important issue is this important in Wednesday. I didn't want to vote today to include this point in the agenda. I wanted to avoid a needless debate on the agenda, because if there was a reaction against including this agenda item at today's session, it's quite certain that it would open the debate without need and I was waiting, so I'm saying here within the agenda point, I'm saying what I think about this question. On the sdrug hand, I also believe that Parliament should say something about this complete case or complete event, and I will at the end of my presentation say what I think Parliament could do and should do, and that this is in accordance with the laws of this country and that in the end, Parliament itself could not be said to politicise the whole thing. The most dangerous thing for us right now and for this case is actually politicizing and I call on the MPs of this house not to fall into that trap. Now I want to say a few facts that are familiar with both you and me. First, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not receive any information. We know from the media that the Federal Intelligence Service has made up certain information, that that information has been delivered, so that's one fact. The second fact, also from the media that this information was delivered to the federal prosecutor's office, because the federal prosecutor himself, if we follow the media, has therefore confirmed that fact and we know that this information is on the evaluation of the state's authority responsible for this by the federal prosecutor. I don't know anything about this case as well as you do officially. 50 I am now asking the question - how is it possible to form an investigative committee of this House if the information it treats and the proposal relating to the formation of this committee has not been delivered to this Parliament and if we as MPs have not had the opportunity to see that information and to read it? On the other hand, how serious the issue is, and how cautious it should be to treat the issue best confirmed by the statement, again presented in the media by the president of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Supreme Court. If you noticed the President of the Supreme Court as to whether the Supreme Court approved certain actions of the Federal Intelligence Service in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, he replied that he did not approve this in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. When asked if it was done in accordance with the Federal Intelligence Service Act, the Supreme Court President, again I say transferred from the media, said he was not authorized to provide answers or information on such issues. For me as a lawyer and as a man who understands himself therefore in court proceedings, this is therefore completely clear and completely clear signal. If we as Parliament today form an investigative committee and give it these tasks listed here at points 1 to 11, I fear we will not be in a position to be assessed as an authority, and we are the highest legislative authority in this country that is, in one way or another, putting pressure on the competent state authorities. This is where the authorities should be allowed to do their part of the job. On the other hand, we are, of course, concerned about everything that's going on and we need to react and the only possible reaction is to call on the competent state authorities. So far, I know about a federal prosecutor from the media, because he has confirmed himself that he has received a report and assessed it. To ask the competent state authorities and that is my suggestion that they do their job by law and do it without delay and inform the public. This is the only thing that the House of Representatives of Parliament can do today and thus respond to the need to say something about this case and not fall into the trap of politicisation and interference of the competent authorities in carrying out their constitutional obligations. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9232	I thank the deputy chairman, Mr. Džaferović. Who's still answering for the word? Here I am if there's no one.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9233	Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9234	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs, distinguished guests, here's while someone prepares for the debate I want to make my contribution to this debate. 51 Of course, we can do it today and anyway. There's a chance we can bring today, make a mistake smaller or bigger today, but for the public to work in this country we have no right to hear. This is both a political and legal issue. Those who think that political atmosphere will not be created live in delusions or illusions. She's already made. It was created, therefore, outside the scope of this Parliament, and I think the conclusion that we give the conclusion that competent institutions do their job by law is a bad conclusion. But here everyone has to act under the law that the Parliamentary Assembly does not give them such conclusions. So everyone needs to work in accordance with the law and regulations of this country. But ladies and gentlemen, how come we have so much hypocrisy? Remember only events throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina when there may have been no climate to even talk about them at the state level. Remember the incident in Banja Luka regarding the reconstruction of the mosque, you remember the murder of the Anđelić family, and do you know that we had an extraordinary session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament even though everyone at the time challenged whether we had the right to debate, because until we had the right to discuss, as there is somewhere out there, people could be killed. I mean, I stood up for Parliament's extraordinary session and made my contribution to condemning it all, but I don't think we have the right to hear it today either. I read different information, reports that 16 of the most responsible people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have transcripts. Isn't the 16 most responsible people in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina the leadership of this country's Parliament. How is it possible that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister Čolak, whom we have chosen, does not feel the need for this information to be forwarded, because according to the laws of the entity intelligence services, it does not say anywhere that they too need to be supplied with information. Who do we want to put against the wall, defend, or attack in front of the public today? But where's the collegiation? That's where our messenger is mentioned. The man I care about may agree most often or disagree with, it is less important, but this parliament must simply answer the question – is there a coup in the state prepared? Hadžipašić says, Federation Prime Minister, I don't know. There was no attack on the Federation, I guess I would have known. The entity prime minister says the same thing is not in Republika Srpska, so I, as prime minister, would probably know that someone is preparing a coup on Republika Srpska. What about the state? She's been taken care of. Even if today we say that this is not the place to form an investigative parliamentary commission, excuse me, who will do their job, the judiciary will do its job. Then I don't know if we and one point in this country are ready to put on the agenda. In that sense, I am prepared to support the formation of this committee. I looked now. The promoter, of course, has defined what the commission should be doing, but I think we can influence that by changing it. I suppose there is flexibility with the promoter, and it would be good to mention here that the chairman of the House should be the chairman of the commission that when the commission is formed, the commission chooses who will lead the commission. 52 But if this Parliament remains silent on this today, we have made a major contribution to the politicization of the situation. So, in my view, we made the biggest contribution and I think today should show that we are also able to take care of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we are able to pay attention to any of our MPs in the sense that a commission will be formed to monitor the work. Here's to showing that it's true that a coup has been prepared, even though it's for me, I have to give the grade funny. If there is a withdrawal of parliamentary immunity, I guess it is the most logical thing to do when someone who examines all this is proposing to this Parliament. That is why I think that the reasons many are on the trail for the establishment of this parliamentary commission that will do its part of the job, and for other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to do their part of the job. In this regard, I have therefore supported this item of the agenda, and I will support these others, so the contents of what the Commission should be doing by making sure that what the contents of the Commission's work are not really prededicating in relation to what others should be doing and that is not the task of us in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9235	I thank Mr. Špirić. Replica Mr. Šefik Džaferović, then Mr. Novaković, is formerly Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Novaković, then Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9236	So I'll just brief Mr. Chairman on this exhibit of yours. So at first I said that the matter is very serious and very responsible and I think that, don't be angry, but your discussion is actually one of the pause political discussions. We have now entered the domain of law, the scope of the procedure applicable to the competent state authorities. I don't want to, say, point 1. says the proposal to form this investigative commission – this commission should, say, say, to determine the facts relating to the findings on the organisation of bombings and the coup which is intended to determine and under 1. says – did the MP Zlatko Lagumdžija or any organised group organise bombings and prepare the conduct of a coup? Be careful, please. Don't turn Parliament into a prosecutor's office and into a court of law. I have been a judge, but today I am an MP and I do not want to question the independence of the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I want to help him and allow him to do his job in accordance with the procedures we adopted here in this House and adopted in the federal parliament. Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament cannot be a judge. That's why there are competent state authorities and that's all the point of what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9237	Mr. Špirić another replica, then Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9238	Perhaps we didn't understand each other, me and my fellow deputy chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. I don't think my grades are political. I was talking here about the need for equal information rights. If I, in conversations with different representatives who are not mentioned anywhere in the law, are obliged to receive 300 kilograms of material, I come to the realization that they have received this material, and the head of the state parliament or the chairman of one and another home does not have it, and individuals have that they are also not in the law, then it gives me the impression that someone here is synchronised or takes the right to be more informed of me. That's what I'm looking for as the chairman of the state parliament so that he doesn't give a flat-rate basis. So that's one thing. The content of the way this commission works gives me the right to talk, and I don't think everything is ideal, but there is a need. I want to know about this country, I don't want the OHR informing me whether there are intelligence matters or not. I want to talk to you. But when we don't talk, it's good that OHR informs us. Why are we running away from it? As possible, where the law states that intelligence services are obliged to send material to high international officials, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, without Parliament's leadership having it. So in order not to be politicized, I want to be informed so that you don't politicize things. I'm not afraid of any commission. Why should I be afraid? Why would she affect the judiciary? Why would anyone defend Zlatko Lagumdžija if he was preparing a coup? But why wouldn't he be convicted if it wasn't true? I don't think I should defend Zlatko Lagumdžija, but I need to defend the position of the state parliament and the chairman and you in the College. And it's best defended when we have information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9239	I thank Mr. Špirić. This is the last replica in this phase between the two chairmans and the vice chairman. Mr. Džaferović. Please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9240	So Mr. Špirić and I want to talk about this subject, so there's no dispute between us and there's no difference in that direction. If I hadn't wanted to talk, I wouldn't have voted for the agenda today. I'd like to make a statement on the agenda that I'm against including the agenda. So I want to talk and we need to talk, and I said in my presentation, if you've realized that this Parliament should say what I think. But I am talking about what this Parliament can do without injureing the laws of this country, the Constitution of this country and not hurting the procedures that are being conducted by the competent state authorities. So that's the whole problem. I am merely warning about this fact, and therefore I believe that this agenda item cannot be concluded by forming an investigative committee next to the already existing investigative authorities, but that we can adopt 54 conclusions and I will propose it and here I propose that we ask the competent state authorities to do their part of the work immediately, so that they do their part of the work and talk about it to the public as quickly as possible. It's the only possible way out of this situation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9241	Thank you very much. Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Novaković, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9242	I thank the chairman, the honourable member of the College, fellow Members and fellow MPs, in some ways, Džaferović gave me the right to support him completely first, that this is one of the really serious and responsible issues, that there is too much politicisation of this issue. During his discussion on several occasions, he called for statements from individual participants throughout this dialogue or to say to a kind of war on the media, and he called for the media itself, which is why I speak more on behalf of the BiH Party for BiH MPs. That is why we also support the Commission's formation of the argument made by counterpart Džaferović. I fully agree with counterpart Džaferović's arguments that the investigative commission is otherwise unable to replace the involvement of institutions in this country that should do their job and investigative bodies and courts and justice etc. But I know just as well that that's why this country's organisation at a higher level of government, because of uncoordinated activities, lack of information like this, and these problems and issues are politicized, which is why we have a lot more headaches than we should have. It may be true that our rules of procedure do not allow for the formation of an investigative committee. It may be a commission, but I also know very well the parliaments of other countries of developed parliamentary democracy, which Džaferović knows even better, for example. The British Parliament is forming an investigative committee on certain issues which, namely whose findings, will have more specific weight than state institutions in that country. Furthermore, what I want to mention, that is, what this Parliament needs to get with one, with a product of the work of such a commission. First, the commission should co-ordinate the activities of state institutions at different levels. This is about intelligence agencies, which is very much about engagement and work, politicizing, interference or not involving parties, policies in the work of professional services in intelligence agencies that remind me of the entity level. We all know equally well that former Hungarian Ambassador Mr. Kočiš is coordinating activities in the reorganisation of intelligence services in this country and this state parliament should receive such information before a law that must be adopted by procedure 105, which may be a reorganization of intelligence services in this country. The commission should, among other things, give us answers to such questions. Secondly, whether the commission will provide answers to the very questions that are standing here or perhaps give answers to other questions. These may be the real questions. 55 But we may have answers to some other questions that are not open at this point. It is primarily a question of reorganisation of intelligence services and the functioning of institutions in this country both at the state level, by the prosecution, the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. all those institutions which are concerned by these problems and which are at lower levels of government. Furthermore, what I find particularly important and precisely why today is debated in the state parliament and this should be discussed is the question of the code of conduct of ourselves, i.e. how we treat each other and in accordance with what code and rules of play MPs play towards each other. And whether a parliamentary speaker and this parliament may be a place for MPs to discuss some issues among themselves, or perhaps it is a medium, or different media, and all those who do not participate in it are reading from the media what is happening. So the question of the code of conduct of ourselves. And beyond what I think is particularly important is what I think is particularly important is what this commission is, among other things, to answer the question, and that is the involvement of politics in the work of professional services in general, regardless of what services we are constantly dealing with, which is why we have politicising professional issues. Now these are intelligence activities, tomorrow may be issues such as corridor Vc, tax system reform or anything else. Which is why we are turning away from the right path, from the fundamental debate on the issues of reforming the key reforms that need to be completed in this country and which should have already been completed, and we are exhausting ourselves on politicising these issues. So once again, I fully agree exactly with the argument made by my colleague Džaferović, but that is more reason to form this commission. On behalf of the Party for BiH Club, let me just say that we support the formation of a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9243	I thank Dr. Hadžiahmetović. I just want to draw attention to the fact that, according to Article 26(2) of the general provisions on the House Commissions, I read Section 2. The House may, with this conclusion, establish temporary, or investigative committees on the proposal of Members or Clubs of MPs. So we can investigate committees and there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, he would react when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Novaković answered for the word, so Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9244	My fellow MPs, the SDS Club was abstentioned on a proposal to put this item on the agenda and now I can only see how right we were when we were abstentioned on this proposal. Namely, where did the abstention that was interpreted as the unwillingness of SDS MPs at one point to clear the matter up? On the contrary, we believe that this 56 question needs to be cleared up and it is because the fact that the actors of this event have become a serious issue and I must say it seems to me with our proposals here more politically than a legal question or a professional question. We don't mind forming an investigative commission. But we think that before the establishment of an expert commission, we should be informed about something, not expert but investigative committees. That's what fellow Špirić was talking about. I'm on this matter, gentlemen, uninformed. Neinformisan even to make a decision to form a commission that, in four sessions in four sessions, should carry out a job that is likely to be subject to investigation by the authorities, so it takes far more time from the profession, not to mention that, of course, I accept proposals on the tasks of the investigating commission are subject to change, but it is understandable that this commission should give the measures to be taken to protect the constitutional order. Since when have the committee gentlemen taken steps to protect the constitutional order of a country. Obviously, one commission that would be formed has very high ambitions what it wants to achieve, even more than possible in the composition here we are as many as 37, 38 of us now who can be members of that commission means in a composition that is objectively the only possible. Not to mention what public workers will serve, university public and cultural workers commissions if its goal is not politics but a profession, not to mention how much the Ministry of Justice as a newly formed ministry is able to provide all professional assistance to the Commission at this time, and believe that it and what kind of professional assistance it will need, considering, again, the weight of the issues and the complexity of the issues it will have ahead of it, and therefore I have a different proposal. I first suggest that we ask the investigating authorities to provide us with information, and then assess the need to form a commission. If we're not satisfied with the information we're getting, and I'm allowing us not to be satisfied whether it's political or objective and subjective, etc. The reason for us to keep everyone here and form our committee that will then say gentlemen from the competent ministry, is that now we take who, you are here and here and in this procedure broke the law, the Constitution, the rules of conduct, and on this matter you were not objective, but you introduced politics and a question that should not be a political issue. Only then can the commission play its part. It's really a real part. In this version, I'm afraid the commission will be unable to prove anything here. And our goal is, as far as I'm concerned, to prove it. So our goal is true. Yes, everyone here must be true. The particular goal is to be true to Mr. Lagumdžija, who is accused, but also I guess the goal is also to the truth of those he accuses of being accused. It should be. And above all, to us in Parliament. So I'm suggesting once again I'm just going to repeat the proposal, so first I'm going to give the investigative authorities a deadline to deliver the report to us, and on that basis we're going to put such a question to the commission, yes or no? We are pleased with the commission to determine whether it was objectivity or subjectivity, whether or not politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9245	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Bešlagić answered for the word. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9246	He says if we don't talk about this, he'll play everyone in front of the house. Every single one of us will be charged with someone and we'll just keep it quiet, and we'll end up being the biggest enemies of this country. I'm telling you that. I claim for one reason why you're all saying give us the judiciary, give us the prosecution, give us this, let us do the job. From my personal experience, since I've been accused 20 times of certain structures, I've always asked the courts and the prosecution to give me an answer to that question. If I'm to blame for going to jail, if I didn't, to punish the one who did, I never got it. Believe me, today the prosecution and the judiciary are so politicized that we won't get the answer to this question as quickly as you do to Mr. Novaković. And here we must protect the integrity of this House, not the Zlatko of Lagumdžija. Tomorrow we're all on wallpaper if this keeps the story going. And to be a tragedy greater, this story comes from us, from here. The idea maker of the Sarajevo bombings should be sought in the triangle of Lagumdžija, Alibabić, Garaplija, Seada Palavrić, a press conference, a member of parliament. Therefore, we must have the answer. We're not asking to punish any of us. When I make a statement like that, then I think the commission in charge should question us first, us first. Selima, Zlatko, whoever she wants, Špirić, it doesn't matter who. It's another thing. I think that before ever a session, Mr Gligorić raised one question about the election of BiH's defence attorneys. Parliament has found the strength to form a commission to examine whether the defence attorney is in line with all the allegations. Why can't this commission do it, we don't say it's supposed to be the way it's written, let's see what the commission needs to do. But let's not run from the truth with the argument that someone is guilty of me accusing him I'm ready to stand before the commission and say you'll give the results. Not that we're taking over the judicial authorities. The Votergejt affair wasn't being conducted, the court was being conducted through the media and headed to the Senate. The Senate committee has been discussing it. They didn't go to jail for it, but he answered because, after all, he pulled the consequences in that sense. I don't think we should swear now that we're the only Parliament that should be working in the spirit of that and that and everybody is doing it. So let's act like Parliament too, put in charge of the commission and get information. Unfortunately, since everyone's ignoring us, we don't have this data. So if we're not going to fight to get information at least from our commission, then what are we going to do? Remember once again, please, after this, if we don't do anything, everyone has the right to come out and say tomorrow that the other one is preparing a coup and we don't have any coincidences. And just when one is finished and the elections come, then that parliament will discuss us as we are as a party, individuals, etc. etc. If we can't look ourselves in the eye, then I don't think we deserve to sit here. So I would ask you, the proposal has been made, thank you for adopting to be a proposal as far as the investigative commission and the point is subject, it is absolutely not written on purpose that it cannot be changed, it has been given only as a form, therefore some attitudes can be cast out from here, add some attitudes. So don't get into it, it's just what we've tried as a SDP club to make it easier in some way. You can rephrase the tasks of not getting involved in state institutions 58, that absolutely, I mean legislative, judicial and prosecution and I am, I accept that, but let's not run from the truth. This is going to upset us deeply if we don't do the job and we won't be able to finish the work that's ahead of us. What, here's what I'm saying is just the only one Pedi Eždaun said and what he said was our fault if we don't adopt those laws that are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9247	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Please. Replica, excuse me, Mr. Gligorić, Mrs. Palavrić Sead's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9248	I must correct Mr. Bešlagić's false allegations. The fact is that it all started after this pay phone right here, but Mr. Bešlagić of Mr. Lagumdžija's real sacrifice, and forgets that Mr. Lagumdžija just started all this here on August 7th, continued on August 7th on the Dilema show and then continued on the media, slightly said, to put him away. I don't want to be, I'm not willing to even have a commission formed because I think it would be a divergence of what law enforcement authorities are supposed to do and so I don't want to talk about specific examples, but if it's going to be necessary to answer the questions of the investigative authorities, I'll answer. I support Mr. Džaferović's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9249	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9250	Ladies and gentlemen, many times we have said here in this assembly that we want to take fate into our own hands, that we want to make good laws, that we are creating such an environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of the future. And then, no less, no less, than is being accused of an MP named Zaltko Lagumdžija of preparing a coup. We have a situation here that we have one MP who is being accused and we have another MP who has somehow been called into all of this. And that's what this home is all about. Then, no one remembered whether Mr Lagumdžija could be an actor to carry out a coup, a man who was doing valid jobs in Bosnia and Herzegovina I think made a big contribution to Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation in the world and now needs to be charged. The question is, why? Only because of politics. Because Lagumdžija is probably an alternative to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those who are now in power are afraid of these facts and let's accuse him of wanting power at all costs and also through a coup. Here is what Mr Džaferović says that it would be good if we went through the institutions of the system, through the judiciary, and that this Parliament would not be a pressure on an independent judiciary, in fact, proposing a conclusion in which the judiciary would and how it would be dependent on where it suggests the conclusion that they are in a priority i.e. They're dealing with the case a little bit. It's a direct pressure on an independent judiciary. Okay, now you've added according to the law. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9251	I added that right away. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9252	Okay. We don't have to go into the stenogram now, so let's see who's right. I believe that much is said in public and that, in fact, by forming an investigative committee, we would only come into a situation that we have no reason to look into anything, that there is no policy here, we are not afraid of all the information that will come to the investigating committee, and why we are not asking all the information from the intelligence services to the commission that will, after the procedure has been carried out, or during the procedure to inform this Parliament as far as it has arrived. I think we need an investigative committee, because it's two important MPs inside this house itself. And why don't you run away, why run away from such a grade that we give our own judgment about all this. I ask you gentlemen MPs, we have intelligence services, those that are official, and we have those that are off the record. Those who are political and partyal, who give their leaders certain information and then generate, reproduces an entire machine and campaigns against people with the aim of political discredition, including in this case Mr Lagumdžija. If I'm asking that here as a question, and if I need to get the right answers, then it's a matter of the investigative commission, because according to the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to have an economic, social, political, etc. to form a commission and ask that it clear certain, specific issues and vague things. That is why I think it would be good and that we will maintain our dignity if we have the courage to accept this investigative committee in which we will definitely need to ask Mrs Seada Palavrić whether she was making her statements, whether it was hasty or whether it was based on some information that someone is giving to someone in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than this parliament. Because when we talk about the system of government of the Council of Ministers who, when it comes to intelligence services, have information, their work report they are considering, and we are choosing the Council of Ministers, this House of Representatives. This implies that information is not available to everyone in this case, especially to the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And why don't you say it in public? Why are you afraid of that? Why do monopolies information have only some people in their position or the leaders of some parties who may have their own political intelligence services? There are a lot of questions that, if you are mostly, and I see that the SDS is following the SDA well, probably in the voting process itself, and I see little of the Party for BiH, too, and she's coming very closely that you will plead against the investigative commission, which is why you gentlemen gave the public the message that you're hiding something right from the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9253	I thank Mr. Gligorić. We now have a request for a replica. Mr. Džaferović, so Mrs. Palavrić, as far as I've noticed for the replica. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9254	Mr. Gligorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9255	Please just listen to each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9256	So I was right after all, and I knew when I was at the beginning of this agenda warning that we would enter the policy area of this matter and your discussion was actually the best witness and confirmation that we had already entered Mr. Gligorić into the politicization of this matter, because you would normally have a habit of reaching such a small wider circle, but to tell you, that you know Mr. Gligorić, if you didn't know, the head of Bosnia and Herzegovina's intelligence service had not set up the SDA. I don't know if you know that thing. These people were placed during the Alliance's power and here there are people who named Mr Lukšić here in Parliament. You know who that is. Please, sir, I answer only now that you know, he said they're politicized. Please, nice. The SDA has no influence on neither the intelligence services nor the judiciary, nor does it want to have that influence. All the SDA requires is that these services and the judiciary act in accordance with the law and nothing else. We're not scared, Mr. Gligorić. Not a single political party, believe me. We know what we're doing. So we have our own program, we have our own activities, and we're not afraid of anything, so don't impute something that doesn't stand. We only fight to obey the law in this country. If this parliament today forms an investigative committee tasked with examining whether MP Zlatko Lagumdžija, I repeat or any organised group has organised bombings and prepared to launch a coup, then the parliament will strike against the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will be executed by being a parallel institution to the official judicial institutions of the state that should deal with such concrete matters. And that's the point of what I've been saying all along.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9257	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I'm just asking you to make it easier for us to talk. It is an open question. Seada Palavrić asked for the right to replication. I'm sorry, but I have to give that right because I've never denied anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9258	Otherwise I wouldn't. Mr. Gligorić is talking here about two MPs. I'm very unhappy that this house is being converted into this commission that should possibly lead the debate. Let's not be serious, and if we're going to have a debate, then let's have a discussion. But when we're having a debate, we're not talking about two MPs. This is about an MP. So it's about Mr. Lagumdžija. 61 And when he speaks of whether my statements were hasty, whether I had extra information, I beg him again, though I would be happier not to engage in this debate to treat Mr Lagumdžija and mine equally and yes, are we deaf. Let's get a stenogram from the 7th session and see who first accused. I did not accuse Mr. Lagumdžija of being Goebbels but he was Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Kalinić and accused me of being gedels, accused us here of speaking as the ruling party that we are responsible for detecting the explosions and protecting the blackest criminals and accusing us of strike by female prisoners, accused us of everything possible in this country. Then I began to observe what Mr. Lagumdžija was doing about starting to make statements. But again, please don't make me a victim of poor Lagmudžija. If we're going to discuss everything, let's discuss it. If we don't let the people in this country do their job. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9259	I thank the MP, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. The more he cracks away, some things are becoming clearer. So the MPs insulted each other was nothing. So people exchanged political remarks at press conferences and then eventually there was a coup. But not to comment further. Mr Jusufović answered the words, so Ivo Miro Jović, and Mr Beriz Belkić. He begged, he has a proposal, but here's Mr. Belkić, if his colleagues agree, I don't mind. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9260	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since I know how to be hasty too often, this time I want to admit it, this time I've cooled down and simply listened to you all carefully and I've concluded that there's really no point in being here. At least a few statements opened my eyes and I end up admitting that I am often and consciously involved in politicization and politicization as everyone else, but this is a farce you're making from one serious event. I voted to go to the agenda for our colleague Lagumdžija who was accused, but I don't know if it's because you said it was in the media. I'm asking you if we're all required to read the sheets and follow. Maybe half of us are there, because 90% of us here have any media spit out. Maybe they don't read from revolt. I'm asking you when the kind of person you're bringing out that you're not getting close to us about what it's all about. I only heard in the agenda that our colleague Lagumdžija was accused, because there was no evidence, it was my motive to simply open up on the agenda not to come to this, but to in a certain way protect the integrity, if there were no reasonable accusations, and it couldn't be when, and we don't even know if any process had begun. Then I claimed the following. After all, my colleague Gligorić, whom I respect and care about, has often agreed with me, has also opened my eyes that I saw then that classical politicisation is because 62 counts of parties. You, and you, you're about on this side of this tower, you're in this one. I am an MP for the Party for BiH, but I'm not in the Tower, Mr Gligorić, you've also given one qualification. Also, Mr. Novaković, it makes me feel like I'm not going to repeat what if you remember what he said they didn't vote abstention, they don't know what it is, and now I'm not going to, because we don't know what it's about, but I don't think either Lagumdžija or any of our colleagues, you're starting to introduce her now, and now we have to discuss Seadi, because you're bringing someone else into the discussion, it's turning into a non-serious thing. It absolutely means protecting my colleague Lagmdžij if it is and what is serious, but if the media is after all, here's except I think 2-3 new MPs who haven't been in political life that they haven't, if they haven't. After all, it is the media's job to follow. That's why I want to shut myself out of this game. So consciously, I don't volunteer to participate. I'll be held back, but I won't even listen anymore at this point and I'll go out and light a cigar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9261	I thank Mr. Jusufović. I would ask that if it is necessary for a cigar to be lit that the Club is looking for a break so that the MPs of the Club and Party for BiH smoke. I'm sorry, it's known how business breaks are sought. We need to make a joke, laugh. Smoking break is required, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's move on. The word was asked for Ivo Miro Jović, or a break for the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9262	I thank Mr. President, the esteemed gentlemen of the Ministers, the distinguished fellow MPs, it's very nice to speak when an MP comes out, tells everything he wants and what he can and has no replicas. I'd like there to be no replica after me so we can bring this point to an end. Three or four months ago, I asked the first question from this pay phone about human rights violations in Arizona. After session two, I got an inadequate response. Then I referred a question to the competent ministry about the violation of human rights in Brcko. You have received that response to three densely typed pages in 10 points where conventions, European conventions on human rights, are being violated. I asked for the formation of a commission. It did not come to an end in this distinguished Parliament. You know we had Watergate in this dear country. We've replaced the chairman of the Bureau, so no commission has been formed. From mahalski, I must call her so, you can take the replica for it, far-sighted what the federal is called, every day you have a comment thief, criminal, mobster, and president of the presidency. It doesn't form anything. I think it's very important here who said it, when 63 said it and who he told. And it's kind of closing there in about 10 kilometers in a circle and the whole world sees the one sitting on Trebević. I have one thing to say, I think you'll agree. This country has been happy ever since this affair started because there are no more bombs. Since we started talking about this, no one's been shooting. It stops. Why? I don't know. But I also want to say this. What do you think if we formed a commission, which I didn't so determine one thing, and the investigative authorities the other. So what do we do? If we're going to derivate our decisions by what's not even started with work or we're going to bow down to something else that has one other stick, that same stick has another end. Two or three years in prison, they say they killed the minister, gave money from our wallets. In the area where I was born, they say he bit a donkey wolf. The money was spent, people were in prison for three years, Minister of the Cemetery, peaceful Bosnia. There's no commission. Which, and the Commission's proposal in Article 7, I am not opening a debate on this request, but I can only conclude something that hurts and bothers me. In this paragraph or Article 7 or 7 of the Commission's chairman, the President-in-Office of the House, Mr Špirić, because the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives says this issue in Article 27(2) to form the committee, so he is the chairman and the 2 chairperson of the various constituent peoples. And here is the one who suggests that it will be House Chairman, Mr Špirić, second, the first deputy will be from the parliamentary majority, meaning Bošnjak, and the Hrvat will be from the opposition party. Since we've got Špirić from the opposition, we'll have another one. I already see the result. Well, I don't see any good intentions. I don't see good intentions, but I have to be and on the other hand I respect Mr Lagumdžija as a man and a Parliamentarian, I don't want to, and I'm sorry for anything that's been said rudely and uglyly, if it's not true. I have the right as a man to say maybe I don't believe it's true already in advance, and the investigative organs of this country will show whether it's true or not. Well, here's what I suggest we let them work, and let's get on with it, 'cause he's out of the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9263	I thank Mr. Jović. This is a proposal from the Proposer. Point 7. I think the commission can choose those, here will be what Dom says, and no, it can be quite different. That's why I commented at the beginning that these are things that are subject to change and no one here cares about being on any investigative committees, but we can't run away from them if there's an opportunity and a need. Mr Belkić answered further, and asked for a word behind Mrs Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9264	I came out with the intention of trying to get out of this situation to sort of operate. Perhaps we could, of course, if the proposing does not insist on 64 of this text, of course the result of the vote depends. So it's obvious that the very content of what is delegated to this committee is the reason for these great polemics here. Perhaps it would be good if we, perhaps the College could do that to the authorities, so from the D.A.'s office, intelligence, etc. We ask for relevant information from which we do not know what they contain and which we mention here to prepare a summary of information and inform this Parliament and that as soon as the matter is completed there in the procedure etc. Parliament shall be informed of the results of the investigations, etc. So that the Assembly takes an active position or through a commission which, unfortunately, is not presently available, a security commission or so, or some temporary commission, or perhaps best to request from the competent authorities relevant information about these current developments. It starts with the information of HOS, starts with these accusations, etc. if that's what it's all about. I really don't know what's on the dream. And let's cut this debate short. And please, this code of conduct. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović also spoke about this. When it comes out for a pay phone, when a statement is made, etc. Really, the words have to weigh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9265	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. The word is Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Is anyone else answering for word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9266	Dear gentlemen, Mr. Belkić said a good part of what I wanted to suggest myself. Now that I'm here, I'm just saying that we're all here and we're all set, and I personally feel under the pressure of this whole thing. Why? Because we've been hit by the media calling us on the phone, looking for comments, and only part of it I can understand people who are directly called, specifically fellow Lagumdžija. I mean, I totally understand. But I can't figure out if it's in accordance with our rules. You see, a little weird sounds like a formulation that we're forming an investigative committee to determine the facts relating to the finding. I mean, for whose findings? Who found something out, so now we need to figure out who found it, whose account, what? So it's not some kind of concrete event. There's nothing going on. There's something that someone's been trying to figure out. I'm not in a position to follow what any of my colleagues said. I've even said the means of information myself. I don't have any information. As long as I have no information, I don't want to comment or blame anyone. I mean, and I totally understand people who care about getting to the real truth as soon as possible. But I'm really heartily supportive of Mr Belkić's initiative, so that we can talk and form a commission based on some information, not on the findings, because as long as it's a finding, it's a non-serious thing and when someone's finding something. I think that's what this is about. And let's be there, we need to be concrete and precise here. So much and thank you. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9267	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9268	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs, firstly I thank all those who have given useful suggestions and remarks here to try to solve the problem that clearly exists, regardless of what may be we may not agree on the extent of this problem. I'm going to ultimately suggest that we consult at a club that we've had without asking for a break, that some of these suggestions that were here to respect them, and that some of the points here are being over-formulated and immersed in concrete. There's no problem. There is no man here among us who in various campaigns and various media in the last, take the period you will not be charged with much. All of us, someone less, are more accused of being criminals like this and like that, until the representatives of the international community said that all politicians here were thieves and criminals, so that was all about all of us together. And that's kind of, people Google after a certain time. You can't fight it. But this isn't about one charge of the guy. This is about one construction and indictment involving the heads of individual institutions and both the Federations and the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the people of this parliament, members of the country's presidency, and I don't choose who doesn't. We can pretend to be ignorant and say it, so that's what the media said. I mean, if you'd agreed to that, then we'd have accused the media that nothing was true, that they wrote something and it doesn't matter. Which simply isn't true. Some of these media have written what they themselves constructed, and some of them were simply a mirror in which we looked at ourselves with our statements that we ran to give them. So what was in the media is something we can't escape from. The Watergate affair someone mentioned started in the media. And then comes a whole new one to say so in a new era in the influence of the media on political life and democracy as a whole. These days in the UK, there is one, not exactly like this affair where the British Parliament has no constitution, formed a commission to examine the circumstances of so-called. Keli's affair where a man was found dead a month ago, and the whole world is writing about whether or not he was connected as a civil servant to the media and how much this is related to the top of the British government. Today, the parliament of the United Kingdom has a committee to investigate, although the man is dead, even though the police are investigating it and it has nothing to do with what the committee of Parliament is investigating. It's perfectly natural that the commission will do something completely different from what the investigating body does, after the judicial authorities have done when it comes to a particular murder and an act clearly defined by law and in a court of evidence. However, this is about the fact that this kind of accusation, whether we want to admit it or not, is not only made up by the media, but we have also participated in this having an inconceivable 66 consequences for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its international reputation, and in the confidence of citizens in what is happening and what we are doing. I'm using the opportunity here to thank some of you here who really called me friendly and suggested that I don't worry about this, because they know it's not true. However, I think it is clear to anyone who has a good sense and who wants to be at least a little well-intentioned, that it is clear that in this country and even if someone wanted to make a coup, because here we have seen half of Parliament shaking in front of a man when he comes to sit, and he actually runs the state and has NATO forces here, so the story of a coup is about removing the international community in today's conditions, not this or that council of ministers. So we don't need to talk. That's, we well-intentioned people know it's nonsense. However, we are spreading insecurity to the public and turning away from the right topics. Well-intentioned people know it's nonsense. But we are spreading this kind of story to the public and moving on from the right issues and coming to a flat speculation that can eventually lead to anyone who believes in this thinking that it's a patriotic act to stop a coup by removing people who carry it out. And it's here, too, in the media, over and over again, one member of the state presidency said that what we're talking about here is just the tip of the iceberg. He did it again. He didn't make up any media that this story about a coup is who it is that you see what's in it. In every country in the world in every country in the world, Parliament would, as far as I can tell, form a committee that this has a public, public investigation, a public hearing and that all relevant facts are established and that it helps both judicial and investigative authorities to work without political pressure and to do their job. I, for those who do not know the prosecutor, immediately sent an official letter in which I addressed him about the allegations made in public and that, with a full sense of responsibility for the overall state of affairs in the country, I believe it is necessary that he, in accordance with his powers and that I do not read to you members and attitudes and points of the Criminal Procedure Act, do what is in his jurisdiction and that he seeks the perpetrators of the crimes that have been done here, or that he may find that they are not. In any case, I have informed the Prosecutor's Office and the Court that I am making myself available to them, without calling for parliamentary immunity and inviting them to begin the investigation that Mr. Džaferović is talking about, that this investigation begins from me personally and from all the people who are connected to me in any way, but then to come to anyone who created this kind of atmosphere in which we are now. So that part will go its course and I believe we shouldn't be afraid of it. What I have to admit, which surprised me, I really expected, don't get me wrong, I really expected this to be one committee that will be investigated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which will be adopted here by consensus to take the burden off of ourselves and show seriousness in this. However, I was accused by the most responsible people in the U.S.A. first of all. They accused me of the blackest terrorism and against constitutional action in the media. I don't want it to stay in the media. It's supposed to be in 67 of this House. And every country in the world was in parliament. My fundamental human rights have been violated, and in this way a message has been made clear that fundamental human rights can be violated to everyone in this country when human rights are violated to a man who has been elected and to a member of this Parliament. Article 8 has been violated. The European Convention on Human Rights as amended by Protocol No 11 and entered into force on 1.11.1998, which is Article 8 of the right to respect for private and family life. Article 10 of freedom of expression, including freedom of opinion, receipt of information and ideas, without interference of public authorities, regardless of borders, closed quote. And a member of the 11th freedom of gathering and association. This is all broken. And these are all the members that are part of the BiH Constitution. Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution has been violated by an MP in this parliament. And that's why we need to do an investigation to see if it's true. The Federation gentlemen who accuse formerly colleagues in Republika Srpska of not giving anything to the state level, now have the opportunity, gentlemen from Republika Srpska believe there should be more states here. So let's see. Where are we now? Now that a state investigation is being offered and Parliament, now on a gentleman from the SDA won't. You gentlemen of the SDA have accused me, Mr. Džaferović and Mrs. Palavrić and you will not, because you are afraid. You are afraid of the truth and run away from the truth. If you weren't afraid of the truth, you'd be looking forward to a public investigation in front of the public and this being on the parliamentary committee to be done in the United Kingdom, Finland, the United States, and, for God's sake, in some countries of the Balkans. By the way, be told Mrs. Palavrić that you read more carefully I didn't accuse you, the people you've led to be gay, you see that it's not you three, but one man, you didn't read it well. Read it and you'll see that I've accused one man, and none of you are. It doesn't matter. And that you're in the protection of this man who's obviously a little gebels who came here with a bag 10 years ago, now he owns half of Sarajevo, you're shaking in front of him, that's what I understand. So, I suggest, I really suggest that we take this commission not as a substitute for other institutions, but to consider it as something that would be done in every country. In that light, Mr. Novaković, I think you're absolutely right when you said you should be informed and your remark is absolutely correct. That he should be informed of what counterpart Belkić was talking about, but point 10 is exactly what the Commission's work is saying and will take place through public hearings and debates that will be held at least once a week. At least. This should therefore be informed in front of the public, not in the information received by the President of the Council of Ministers, rather than to the President of Parliament. I don't think anyone's slow, so I suggest, if you don't mind, that point 5 be thrown out because it can be an intrusion in order to say the details of the investigative procedures, and here I suggest that it be thrown out on behalf of the promoter. I suggest that point 7 be cast out and that the commission do so in accordance with Article 27(2). The Rules of Procedure Mr. Jović was talking about. 68 I suggest that point 8 be cast out. Let me just say that there has been an attempt to apply Rule 27 of our Rules of Procedure that speaks of the commission being able to hire experts and other people who have some dignity to help. So I suggest that it be thrown out, that it be a commission matter. I suggest that point 9 be dropped, which obliges the Ministry of Justice to provide adequate expert assistance to the Commission because it is said that the Justice Ministry is not qualified to do so. No problem. The Commission will then, within its jurisdiction, engage whoever it can. So, what's left? Point 1, 2, 3, 4, point 6, point 5. Point 10 becomes point 6 and point 11 becomes point 7 and in the end I think that point 7 Mr. Šefik Džaferović suggested another way, so you will surely like it. I'm also proposing to an esteemed colleague who spoke before me to get the word of a finding out from up here. So let's throw out the word "constant," because we know what this is all about. And that all of this together as responsible people we start bringing to an end. Don't be afraid of the truth. I'm not afraid of the truth. I'm accused of the blackest thing in one country. The MP has been charged with destroying the country's constitutional order. It's smaller for an MP. A minor mistake, a minor one to say so, a minor one did criminally and every other one, morally, if he kills a man. Is this his personal act to answer for as a felony? But to destroy constitutional order and to be an MP in one country under oath, there is no worse charge. And that's why this is being made, and why it didn't occur to us to make proposals on making commissions for other things. You have as much obligation as I do to anyone who is accused of breaking the oath he took to put him on public hearing. Go ahead, start with me, but everyone will come. I'm ready to answer, and you who are against this have pulled four points. You who are against this, fear the truth and know why you are afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9269	Thank you, Dr. President. Zlatko Lagumdžija. The reply was sought by Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Križanović's discussion, so Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9270	I, of course, don't understand all these scientific disciplines in which, apparently, Mr. Lagumdžija understands, and I really shouldn't be saying anything about psychology and whether I know or don't know that someone is scared or not, but here, Mr. Lagumdžija is an expert in psychology and so let it be to him. Mr. Lagumdžija, I beg you, don't replace the thesis, don't claim what I didn't say. If you're already quoting me, then try to be credible and be what I said. Džaferović is not afraid of the truth. I have no reason to. I'm just afraid that this parliament will not be drawn into politicisation and that we will not make out of it what this Parliament cannot possibly be. This parliament cannot be a court of law whether you are guilty or not, Mr Lagumdžija, it cannot be shown by this parliament. That should be 69 says the D.A., or should the court say, and there's a place, if it comes to that, I don't know, which one of you will possibly be saying what you're saying here at this pay phone, and that's the point of what I was going to say. And, finally, I think that Mr. Belkić, I failed to go out for a pay phone after his discussion, offered, so, one quite normal solution for getting out of this situation, and here I am now reshaping this position and I will join the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9271	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word was asked for by Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9272	I want to say right away at the beginning that I am not at all happy that this debate has taken place today on the proposal to form an investigative committee. Believe us it was our intention to, precisely, for these reasons that are highlighted here, lack of information, evidence etc. If we were not ready to discuss this case today, and in this sense, there was a proposal to form a commission, which, I repeat, would have been tasked with examining the truthfulness of the allegations in the involvement of our fellow MPs in the organization of bombings and coups. That's the goal. We may have been too ambitious, and we may have made a mistake in giving too detailed a description of the way the commission works. But, please, let's agree to form a commission, precisely, so that we can later, eventually, conduct a quality debate, whose task is just to say that it examines the truthfulness of the allegations of our colleague's involvement in this affair. Here, we leave it to the commission to work as she finds fit by method and with co-workers and pace and whatever you want, and I just think it's rational to narrow down her deadline more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9273	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word was sought by Mr Avdić Sead, Dr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9274	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's good to have this atmosphere talking about this. I fully understand the motives and leads of the SDP Club to form this investigative commission. That's not controversial. And also to repeat, we are all committed here to the construction of the rule of law. If we're fighting for the rule of law, then we have to respect it. Under three, we are also agreed to preserve the dignity of this Parliament and the representative home and the House of Peoples, and thus the dignity of each MP. Which means that this is an important question and the first job in this form we meet with it and logically 70 is that we have different views. About this issue in BiH, there is a real media war and a princip or, based on the media war, the conclusion of this parliament, there is an absolutely missed political investment, so that I don't say stupidity or, simply, hypocrisy. So media speculation, the media war, can't be the basis or the document on which anything will be brought in this House. That's the premise. If we're going to respect it. So the media is not a source of information, objective information, based on which we can conclude. That's one. Two, he's got a federal intelligence document. Right? He's got a document. Professor Lagumdžija, the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija, has not been charged with me. Who's he being charged with? From the media accused. Well, people, what's wrong with you? Well, I guess we're not going to re-engage the media in this home. What media? On behalf of whom did they accuse themselves? So I don't recognize the media as a relevant factor, based on which we can decide. Yeah, yeah, we can laugh. The FOS has also given its application to the federal prosecutor. The federal prosecutor hasn't called on that application yet, according to the document. Could it be a relevant source of information that we form an investigative commission? So, who's being charged here, I'm asking you? Is there anyone accused in this room? On what grounds is he charged? Where the relevant document is that it is accused or this is just, simply, political manipulation and misinformation that we're talking about today, we're already spending an hour. Who can force this Parliament to conclude on the basis of the form of newspaper articles and vote on something, so it's embarrassing people. It's embarrassingly real. I don't know, I wonder what kind of courage we have, I think, and Mr. Chairman supports this kind of chaos that's being created. How can you conclude something on the basis of newspaper articles, and who can? Who's allowed to conclude that? Which means, I beg you, this is a missed political investment of someone who intends to make political divisions or make a political profit in this bill. No way. So we can only wait for the federal prosecutor. If a federal prosecutor submits criminal charges against anyone, well, then we're obliged to start, then I'm going to argue that an investigative commission is being set up, and now at this stage, on behalf of, on what grounds will I set up an investigative commission? Based on what arguments do people have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9275	I thank my colleague Dr Sead Avdić. Let me just say that I am obliged to respond to the request of the Members' Club. This is a request from the SDP Club, which is legal and legitimate. Gentlemen, we've adopted this agenda point, but I have the impression that sometimes we smoke in cold milk, Mr. Avdić. It seems that the way you think nothing happens in this country is that the media, which the media is not important, etc. It's like living somewhere outside this country. So we are obliged as Parliament, at the request of every club to say what we think. I appreciate your attitude, but I'm asking you to give me the right to have my own judgment and my own stand. That could already be like tolerance and democracy. I'm afraid there's a lot of better-cases and transferable inerts from some old times, so I can't accuse you, because it's probably in me, too. Who's next to the word? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here's Mr. Avdić's replica. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9276	So, when the arguments to answer the MP run out, then it is called for the help of a hateful communist system, bettervism, etc. Thank you, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9277	I thank the naked Avdić, who asked me where I got the right to put this on the agenda, but I do it, and when he looks for it and someone sees the arguments, someone doesn't see it, someone does it with glasses, someone without glasses. That's exactly what I'm doing. Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9278	I had the need for Mr. President to come out and replicate to the esteemed representative Avdić. The pay phone today was sweaty and too hot with hot words. This was about funerals, digging up graves, and it wasn't a peaceful atmosphere, and some of them suggested wearing diapers, and that's why I disagree with the formation of a commission. What Mr Avdić was saying, I disagreed with the formation of the commission, and I said why I was so as not to agree with the formation of the commission. Let the organs and bodies do the job. Let's not immediately, apriors suspect them. Let people do the job and we'll see where they're at and we need to protect them immediately if we find out that they've made mistakes, or we, however, are going to form here for our own institutions and supervisory authorities. If that's it, then it's a really exaggerated measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9279	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Who's next to the word? I have the impression that today's debate is exhausted, I'm closing the debate. Now, please, let's just try to come to the conclusion by making a statement. We have two suggestions. The first proposal is the SDP MPs' Club, which was corrected by the presentation of Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija, in which the investigation committee, which is required, contains instead of eleven points, seven points. That's what you've heard, of course, but what I want to see first is whether or not we're going to plead to form an investigative commission. So this is SDP's first proposal. The second proposal was Mr. Beriz Belkić and the third proposal is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, who is in writing here. Please, we will plead on all proposals, because it is the only way MPs can do it. So, who's for the SDP pre-department club, with these corrections, which are indicated here. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in favour of a corrected SDP proposal? Since there is uncertainty, please let the MPs know why they vote. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate, you see this is a problem when it comes out, or a problem when we want something to be clear to us that we have reason to justify the way we plead. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9280	As far as I'm concerned, there are three suggestions here. The first is not to accept a proposal to form a commission at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9281	I don't have that one in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9282	The second is to wait for a report from the authorities, and neither do I, the police organs, so on that basis, let's assess whether we're going to form a commission of any kind. And the third is this proposal that was officially submitted by the SDP. So let's set things up like that. I'm in any case to form a commission, but there's...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9283	Thank you, Dr. Nijaz. It's probably a little misunderstanding, but here's the first proposal from the Parliament Club. I beg you, you will not explain it, but you will in writing, after we have declared ourselves, have concluded the debate. Give us in writing your proposal, which you suggested, because we have these others in writing. You can take a break for ten minutes, if he's looking for a club break for 10 minutes. Please have a nice break for ten minutes. So, and those who think it shouldn't be a commission, what Dr Nijaz Duraković was saying to write that it was their written proposal. I have to have a written proposal to make a statement about him. So, so far we've got two pens, waiting for the other two. A break of ten minutes, at the request of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH. We absorb, not in haste, not in sharp quality, but to conclude. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded a discussion of the conclusions. We have three conclusions in writing. That is, the first conclusion of the SDP MPs' club, corrected by the club. The second is Mr. Beriz Belkić's conclusion. Third, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. We've concluded, and here's the conclusion that he's offering me now as chairman. Parliament agrees that we have a fourth conclusion. We agree. Okay, I agree. We've closed the debate with Mr. Džaferović, don't be angry if we don't reopen the debate. We plead first on the SDP Club proposal, therefore, corrected from 11 to 7 points. Who's for this SDP club proposal? Who is against this conclusion of the SDP Club? Who's being held back? 73 I'd like your results. So of the 35 MPs who voted 13 were in favour – against 14 – abstention 7.. I konstatuj the proposal of the Members' Club has not even received a simple majority. There's no need to plead on the entities. We have a proposal from the Party Club for BiH. It reads as follows: "On the basis of Section III - Part 1 of Article 26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly shall decide, which shall form an investigative committee to provide complete and relevant information on the so-called ‘relevant’ information from the competent authorities within ten days for the purposes of the House of Representatives' House. the case of "State Impact". At the next session, the House of Representatives will warn the public and decide on the possible need for further work by the Commission and its actions. Please make a statement. Who's up for this proposal? Who's against this proposal? Who's being held back? I'd like some results. Ladies and gentlemen, 39 MPs - 25 for - press 9 - abstention 5. We have a simple majority. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? So, from the Federation of BiH there were 16 for – from RS 8.. I also konstatuj that this proposal has been given to the entity majority. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, we have reached a valid conclusion regarding this item of the agenda, the breach of the Rules of Procedure complained Mr Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9284	I am interested in what criteria the chairman has set out the order of motion for conclusions in the vote. Since the SDS Club's proposal had been submitted before the party's proposal for BiH was submitted, that is, that is to say that the party's proposal for BiH was not discussed and is not given in this form in which it is now given. So that's the proposal that came after the debate. I'm asking you gentlemen, can I make proposals after the debate, when the debate ends with homecoming, means by hosting between the club presidents of any games behind the scenes. Please, gentlemen, we debated at Parliament and came forward with proposals. I argue, and the stenogram will show that the party's proposal for BiH was not as read and where it came from. And, secondly, why is the SDS Club proposal not put to a vote before the Party's proposal for BiH, if it has been given and proposed before, or another criterion is at stake. Is that a number of MPs, whether who prefers it here, is the Chi proposal already agreed to pass, etc.? Some criteria the chairman had to have when he suggested this. I'm asking to know that criterion. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9285	What are you nervous about? I don't see any reason for what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, please, we are, therefore, asking you to keep an eye on us. No homecoming. This is Parliament seeking a solution. We took a break to simply define it in writing. That's what we've come to terms with on the club's proposal. That conclusion was adopted. I have two other conclusions, which are on the same line between SDS and Mr Džaferović, which are therefore on the same line of these conclusions that were adopted. But they're the same. I beg you, we've come to a conclusion that solves the problem. If we're going to, you see, the criterion is that we're running a session to get a solution, we're finishing the agenda. It doesn't say we have to do it in order. Where does it say? Find me, I don't know, I didn't argue at all that you have the right to all conclusions, but let us plead. Whoever gets the conclusion of the majority, I'm a legalist. We're going to a plea. Who I'll be before. Here, people, we want to plead. Džaferović wants to be his. We've adopted the conclusion. You're right, Zlatko. But I guess those who voted for this conclusion won't vote for another. But here's the thing. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9286	The chairman's assumption that those who voted for this conclusion will not vote for the next one does not stand, as the chairman voted in favour of both the SDP's conclusion and the BiH Party's conclusion. Therefore, all others can vote for all four conclusions. So it doesn't matter who's gonna vote for what conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9287	I'm asking you to finish the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9288	The second thing, I'm asking you to vote first as suggested. On that priority, the party's conclusion for BiH is the fourth conclusion, the fourth floor of the proposed conclusion, and I demand that that is the vote. The SDS proposal is not identical to either the SDA or the Party for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9289	Please, nice. I will read the conclusion, here, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović is looking for a replica, requested by Mrs Seada Palavrić. Here you go, and you'll get a job intervention, but I see now some unnecessary anxiety, something's wrong. There's no reason, all the conclusions will come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9291	Can I talk to you for a minute? Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9292	I thank the chairman, and my colleague Belkić, I ask only a brief break, given that I want to remind him, in fact, of the order of today's discussions. I was second, I think, a debater today within this agenda point. And, on behalf of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH, supported the formation of an investigative commission, but asked whether with those tasks proposed by the SDP or some other. kolega Belkić, who requested a break, was just a written formulation of the party's proposal for BiH. I think we were right behind the official proposal, the official applicant of today's request in order and without any domestication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9293	I thank my colleague, Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Seada Palavrić has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9294	Mr. Chairman, you're doing everything you can to keep this from ending. Remember that Mr. Džaferović first discussed and first proposed a proposal for a conclusion. First one in the debate. Also remember that SDS Mr. Novaković delivered a written conclusion and that the break was made to write the proposal for his conclusion. If, therefore, you have not made a mistake in the procedure of the SDS, when it comes to SBiH, it is according to Mr Džaferović and I ask you to repeat the voting procedure when it comes to Mr Džaferović's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9295	I, please, have received the written text of Mr. Džaferović after the written text of the Party for BiH, two and a half seconds ago Mrs. Palavrić and give me the opportunity to lead this session. And I'm sitting here, it's very hard for me. Here, let's go to the plea now. Now, please, let's agree on what proposal will now go next to the vote. Is it Novaković or Jaferovic?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9296	Put everything on so that it gets more votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9297	Slowly, Mr. Jusufović, we must stick to the Rules of Procedure. I can't understand you. My colleagues give each other a primate as we vote. What can I do now? Mr. Novaković, can you go, please, here's a statement on Mr. Džaferović's conclusion and yours. So, both conclusions will go to the plea. Give me some tolerance. Thank you. Mr. Džafrović's conclusion. 76 Therefore, under one, the College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives is tasked with obtaining, on the occasion of the current report, work from the competent authorities in accordance with the Constitution and the law, relevant information on this and informing this house. Two, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, gives full support to judicial authorities to enlighten all facts related to the case and expects their full engagement to be completed as quickly as possible. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against this conclusion? Who's the master? Please, hurry up with the count, but no mistakes. Set the exact number. I ask the MPs to vote. So it's your right to vote. You have three options. I can't understand. We're either sleepy or tired. If you're going to tell us to take a break. 37 – of the 37 MPs 14 voted in favour – 12 were against – 10 abstained. So, these gnaws don't count, we have most of them and we go for the entity. Who's in favor of the Federation? Thank you. Who's in favour of the RS? - 12 is from the Federation – 6 is from RS. So, this is a proposal, too. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. We've got one conclusion I think we need to stick to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9298	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to suggest to you from the College that you get a little too focused, along with the promoter. The first time you voted 14 people was for, when you went after the entities when you added up there were 18 of you. First, the vote you counted here. You have different sums compared to entity numbers, and you didn't fuck one that's asleep, but you missed 30%. Only then, at the end of the day, we return our fellow Špirić to what he really suggested. Mr. Džaferović has now formulated a second proposal compared to the one he had. Mr. Novaković formulated a completely different proposal compared to the one he had, because your proposal to Mr. Novaković was not to adopt anything, not that was your proposal from the pay phone, and then you re-formed the conclusions and, indeed, with full respect, it is obvious that the SDA and SDS together and without homecoming want this simply to be no commission or truth or anything. As far as I'm concerned, the one who initiated this, it's clear to us. It's all clear. Here it is in the direction of Bog you have accused us and now you have decided to hide the truth of SDS and SDA, without any domicile of the same conclusion you have, I apologize for quoting you to Mr. Novaković, this hosting is your SDA invention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9299	Ladies and gentlemen, the replica is requested by Mr Džaferović 77
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9300	Mr. Lagumdžija, I graduated from college in '79. years and I'm tired of teaching. You have been teaching all of us for eight months in this House. I'm asking you to free us from it. I don't need your lectures and don't twist the picture here. I answered the discussion after Mr. Križanović and offered the conclusions that I had formulated and delivered to the chairman of the House, alone and without any agreement with any political party in this parliament, as I was saying. My conclusions, the proposal of my conclusions on the trail of my discussion, to request, therefore, information, that support to and from the authorities be required by urgent, effective and legal work. That's two conclusions, and don't, please don't deceive the public, don't put me in a position to go out here for a pay phone, to spend both my nerves and my health, arguing with you, just on the basis of what you're doing here, the whole circus in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9301	Ladies and gentlemen, please, first of all, we have to go back to what is the essence of everything, which is, therefore, my proposal, when one conclusion is adopted, which defines the agenda point, there is no voting further, there is no point, because other conclusions are different. I ask the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Secretary-General to give an interpretation. Here you go, Mr. Hadžović. I'd like to ask you, if you're here, give an interpretation. I call for help, I have a dilemma, I call for help from the Secretariat. Don't make a joke here. That's not the point to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9302	I'd like to say first that the vote is in order as the proposals have arrived. Since oral suggestions were later amended and, indeed, the suggestions made in writing do not entirely match those offered in oral form. You should take the criteria as they arrived in writing. However, if one conclusion is adopted, there is no need to vote on the second conclusion anymore, and I think the vote is being renewed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9303	Please, we won't vote again, you've helped me enough, let me finish the session. Since the conclusion of Mr. Beriz Belkić is, we're done with this point. As far as I'm concerned, you can do whatever you want, you can ask for a break, we can rest so in two days, but this point is over and we can't make this point out of this point, what someone wants, and I agree when the conclusion passes, which defines the point of the agenda to go on, the conclusions are collapsing and losing meaning.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9304	On condition that you respected the Rules of Procedure. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9305	I respected the Rules of Procedure and the agenda. Here you go. Here, business intervention, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9306	Be careful, Mr. Chairman, therefore, the essence of what I wanted to achieve is, in fact, what was proposed by Mr. Belkić. We are only different about whether there is a commission or whether the College is a commission, that is, the difference. The other difference is that I call on the authorities, I actually copy the last point of what Mr. Lagumdžija wrote, or I don't know who the SDP Club wrote, and I copy it, except that someone doesn't want to see it, and they don't want to talk about it, but it's just a simple welcome to the knife some things, insults, provokes, but let it remain a matter of raising these people who do it, let it be to them on their souls and shame. And here, therefore, is not the problem at all, Mr. Chairman, so Parliament has said the essence. Here's the problem of unlicensedness, which you, Mr. Špirić, I'm sorry to say, do when you're closing this agenda. First, with all due respect to the Secretary of Joint Services in Parliament, I must say that he is not the Secretary-General, we will have the Secretary-General in Parliament, if Bog gives. And, secondly, the Rules of Procedure interprets the College, and here we have the Secretary of the House. So, I apologize to you, Mr. Hadžović, there was no place for you to go out for this pay phone and, in particular, to get involved in judging some of the things that this college should decide here. I'd like to ask you, for, however, to protect this home too, to give you a break of ten minutes, to sit down and make a deal and see how we get out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9307	Ten-minute break and party club presidents to meet, here, we can do it here. There's no charge to go out. I took a break, at the request of Vice-President Šefik Džaferović, I ask him to let you know what we have answered to accept it and move on. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9308	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 79 I have, therefore, already said what I think and the conclusion of Mr Belkić, he is no different at all, essentially than what I have suggested here. There was more of a matter of principle here, and let's not push any more replicas. We sat there in a session of an extended college and the essence of it didn't change at all. The solution remains to obtain this information, which will be decided later by the House, as was the case by Mr Belkić. That conclusion has been voted upon. I am prepared to acknowledge the validity of that conclusion, and we have agreed that the Komisja, which is stated there in the conclusion of Mr Belkić, will actually be the College of the House of Representatives: Mr Špirić, Mr Raguž and I, Šefik Džaferović. So I'm giving up and there's no need for you to vote on my conclusion. As far as I know, Mr. Novaković agreed, so I'm going to say this at the pay phone, after the chairman asked me to say what was there at the session, and he's going to give up his conclusion. Mr Belkić's conclusion has already been adopted, and I only suggest that he vote that this three-member commission will, in fact, be a College, and that way we have completed everything that needs to be done on this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9309	Thank you. The three-member commission, which will realize the conclusion we adopted. I beg, therefore, I think so. Here you go. I think this is a compromise solution. So, the conclusion we adopted is valid, the conclusion, this is the conclusion of Mr. Belkić, the proposal of the enlarged College, with the club presidents, is that a three-member commission is formed, composed of Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Raguž and Mr. Špirić. I'm putting on a committee statement. Okay, I agree, we form a committee composed of Mr Džaferović, Špirić, Raguž. Špirić, Raguž and Džaferović. Please, who's for the commission, so we're forming in composition. Who's in charge of the commission? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 1 I find that with one vote abstention, we have adopted the composition of the commission. We adopted the conclusion by Mr Belkić, or the Party for BiH. I thank all those who have contributed to, in a compromise way, getting out of this agenda. I ask you that, really, when we have points like this, there will be still, of course, an opportunity to make sure that we have to respect the Rules of Procedure in everything. 80 We're going to the 13th item of the agenda. Ad.13. Information on BiH's external responsibility on 31.12.2002.The information was delivered to Parliament on 8 August of the current year. It is BiH's duty on 31.12.2002. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given this information and I'm opening a debate on that information. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9311	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, Information as information usually says that sometimes it has been delivered to you or you know it, and so let it go. So I didn't realize, so he took a closer look at some of the things in that information, and I noticed something that I would like from this pay phone to make an observation. It's all based on two groups, it's, when it comes to the presentation of so-called. A new debt, it's a debt that came from 14.12.95. Three billion KM not full. There is also a structure in which public budget spending participates with over 50% of the total debt, which I find somewhat worrying. Because the total investment in the economy of that debt is only one-sixth of the total. If I put those two in context and thinking, that horse should pull that car, then I don't see the possibility that he'll pull that car out. So this ratio, in my opinion, isn't good and the input of information, if this is true, should be dealt with by someone with that problem. By the way, the information shows neither the conditions under which these funds were taken nor the exact spending of those funds, or the common observer and the one who can thus conclude that the list suspects that it was not quite right or right, nor how these citizens would like it, nor us in Parliament. The right to tell you, when I read some of these items, I was more suspicious of them, so I have to point out, when it comes to this information. When it comes to the so-called. an old debt, which is a debt from an unknown time until 2.04.'92. For years, it carries in itself a series of mysteries and mysterious questions, which should be made clear in the information, not said, and I turned them into three groups. First, the creation of individual debts and any borrowings and conditions of these individual borrowings are not indicated anywhere, which can be, as little and symptomatic and problematic, if considered. Furthermore, the exact amount of direct investment debt and, ultimately, who decided on both the borrowing and the allocation of the debt in charge during that period, which 81 is being treated in this period, so-called ‘the ECB’. The old rainbow. All of this must, in my opinion, be publicly transparent, and this public and transparency should also be said in this information that it does not bring into dilemmas, which I have expressed and I believe is a lack of this information and, if someone were to process it, I think that these things should be kept in mind. I also doubt the accuracy, and in particular the legality and enforcement and the flow of borrowing and the way in which the debt is spent, so, at the very least, I have to be restrained when it comes to this information, and to the knowledge of whoever made it, to do it a little differently, in order to avoid this ambiguity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9312	Thank you very much. Has anyone answered your word? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9313	My colleagues and colleagues, the information that has been provided to us about BiH's external responsibility on 31.12., has been done commonly as information of this kind is being done. She can be someone indicative. What is the structure of BiH's external responsibility, based on both old and new debt, and regional orientations, or structural orientation of the overall foreign debt in BiH. What I find particularly important, for this information, is what I want, perhaps to warn the Council of Ministers and to suggest that it prepares one piece of information for this Parliament, which is based on contractual credit obligations with credit arrangements, both with the World Bank and with other creditors in BiH, with different periods, grace periods and payment dynamics, i.e. on the length of the obligation of external debt, or the duty of BiH, determines the dynamics of the service of external debt, i.e. the fulfilment of our obligations. Which is what I want to especially warn you about. One part of the commitment, based on the old debt, arrives in 2003, or the other half of 2003. It is particularly critical in 2004 and 2005. In the service of external debt, what I find particularly important is one projection of how much growth in BiH's gross social product should be made in order to meet all foreign debt obligations and what to do to ensure such economic growth. Such a projection is missing, and I want to warn you exactly about the period, the critical period of 2004, which is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9314	I thank Mrs. Azra. Who's answering for the word. I ask you, if there's a pursuit, just that MPs do something, or that they ask for information if they need the Council of Ministers. Is there anyone else to answer for? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest that we, therefore, inform ourselves of the external debt in an informative manner, such is the business possibility. So, we're not adopting this information, we're being informative as MPs, simply, it seems to me that with these suggestions, Hadžiahmetović, therefore, to deliver a stenogram to those who wrote the information to be familiar with the discussions, which are related to this item of the agenda. That would be the end of the 13th agenda, ladies and gentlemen. 82 Now, please, they have two proposals from colleagues regarding the continuation of this session. There is a possibility that if tomorrow, since there is a group of MPs who are going, he is involved in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council. To be clear, to whom tomorrow it is appropriate to continue the session at ten o'clock, to see if we have a quorum not to make a double expense, but that the MPs are there to carry out the work of this session. So let's get this straight. Who's in charge of the ten o'clock follow-up tomorrow. If not, then we'll make another suggestion. Unfortunately, we can see now that there isn't. Unfortunately, there is no quorum tomorrow. So at this point, we're going to do a session break, we're going to continue the session a day earlier than the next regular session, it's going to be, probably the last week of this month, or eventually, we're going to see and we're going to be notified in time. Can I just ask you a few questions? There are agreements, whose verification awaits the IMF and the World Bank. Can we at least use your mood to get these, therefore, to finish the 18th point of granting consent to the ratification. It's not common, but we can end this session this month. The competent commissions discussed these agreements. Do we agree to do this? We agree. The competent commissions have submitted their reports on the ratification of these agreements and propose ratification of these agreements. I beg you, there's a possibility that we can either plead to each other or make a statement about all the agreements. If anyone has a reservation for any agreement, it changes the way you vote. Unless there's a reservation for any agreement. So you suggest we vote on ratification of all agreements. Who's to vote on ratification in a package for all agreements? Who's against it? No abstentions. I understand that we have unanimously decided to give ratification in the package. I'm asking you, just for a stenogram, I need to read all the agreements that are listed here, so I'm asking for patience. So who's to ratify the following agreements? (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the international transport of passengers and goods in road transport; (e) Agreement between BiH and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments; (f) Agreement between BiH and the People's Republic of China on the Promotion and Protection of Investments; 83 g) Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the Cooperation of Small and Medium Enterprises; (f) Agreement on the Development and Protection of Forests between BiH and the International Association for the Development of the Republic of BiH and the Security of the Republic of BiH on the Security of the Republic of BiH; (c) Agreement between the Council of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the Co-operation of Small and Medium Enterprises; h) Agreement on the Development Project of Forests between BiH and the International Association for the Security of the Security of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH Agreement between the European Union. Who is it to ratify these agreements? Do you mind? Are there any glimmers? There isn't. I thank and realize that we have ratified all these agreements that I have read under point 18. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, you will be informed of the continuation of the session in due time. We will continue it a day earlier than the regular session of the 19th session of the Representative Council. Thank you for understanding. Thank you for your tolerance and compromise. Cheers, until the next time. The session was completed at 7:20 p.m. 84 ...let's get going, this is the sequel to the 18th regular session. So, I would like to inform you that 29 MPs, 17 from the Federation and 12 from the RS are present here. So we have a quorum. Of course, some of them are still arriving, so it is difficult to determine exactly how many of us there are, and I would like to tell you that their absence from today's session was justified, Mr Sead Avdić and MP Mr Vinko Zorić. The others did not justify their absence. So, I remind you that there are five points left on the agenda of the 18th session, that's, first one. Proposal for a conclusion on the review of the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, 2. Consideration of the Management Commission's report on the relationship between the harmonisation of Members' salaries with the salaries of ministers and the proposal for measures, 3. Proposal for a resolution on the suspension of the increase of the personal income of elected officials in the executive and legislative authority and repealing earlier decisions, which are contrary to the Law on the Extortion of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2003, by MP Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, 4. Consideration of the SDP Club's initiative to set up a committee to mark the 60th anniversary of the maintenance of ZAVNOBIH, 5. Decision to declare the permanent session of the House of Representatives We are going, therefore, to the first point of Ad.1. I would like to remind you that you have received a report from the committee responsible for this item on the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr Elmir Jahić, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9316	The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Azul of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina is, in line with the conclusions of this House of 85 17/07. rescheduled and revised the conclusions that we presented that day, so on 17th of July. Let me remind you. The Commission has proposed that this issue be discussed at the Parliamentary Assembly, which is what has been done. As the Commission, we have proposed certain conclusions as a complement to the Annex VII Implementation Strategy of the Dayton Peace Agreement. After the procedure was carried out here in Parliament, after a series of discussions, the conclusion of this House was that our conclusions were complemented by conclusions, suggestions, suggestions from the MPs of this House. On two occasions, we considered this problem. You were the last time we came to our conclusion. Yesterday, we also held a session of our commission, and we implemented some other minor additions in that direction, therefore, in connection with the law that we should adopt, therefore, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Refugees in BiH, where the Refugee Commission also plays a very important role, and in this context we wanted to integrate it into these conclusions in order to get into this strategy. I'm not going to present to you those conclusions, which I presented last time, but perhaps I'll just focus on some conclusions that are new. And also, I would like to say that we've made some conclusions, we've been trying to make sure that what's not presented in this strategy to point out that and we've put it as conclusions, and some that we really considered extremely important, regardless of what is within this strategy, we, let's say, wanted to draw. Also, from the discussion of MPs at last session of Parliament, there were a number of useful suggestions, however, some were already in our conclusions or within the framework of the strategy, so we did not want to repeat it in particular. So, just what we think was new, which wasn't, therefore, covered by the strategy, which wasn't covered, and these conclusions we singled out and presented within these conclusions. So now I'm just going to potentiate what's not covered by strategy or so far's conclusions. We believe that this adopted strategy should be regularly discussed every six months at meetings of the Council of Ministers of BiH and entity parliaments, as well as at the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, with a view to monitoring the implementation of the Annex VII implementation, this one is an extremely important problem. We also believe that this should be possible for all other levels of government, so despite the state, entity, cantonal, municipal, as well as public enterprises to help implement Annex VII throughout BiH. That is, therefore, out of the realm of its entity, canton or municipality. 86 In addition to these, we believe that the Strategy should be complemented by the next one. Accurate and current data on the actual departure of people from BiH, as well as on the return of people to BiH, and on the return of apartments and other assets in entities. We also believe that the charge should show how much money has been invested in the return so far. So, by entities and overall, as well as new priorities for the sustainable survival of refugees and displaced persons. Highlighting certain areas and regions of BiH as return help priorities, and on the basis of established criteria, such as interest in return, for the assignment of assistance so far, as well as other criteria, to be defined by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons. So this is where we put it, this is the change that we made yesterday, we uncorporated this committee. You will see, already tomorrow, I think we will have in Parliament a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, where it is said about this commission, how to decide and distribute funds for this purpose. In addition, the strategy shows the need to change a number of regulations, which are the brakes of refugee returns and displaced persons. Also, we said, there was also talk about the difference between the real return and the return of property formally, and, too, there are some measures proposed. We believe that, too, this committee, the parliamentary commission, as well as the BiH Ministry of Human Rights, is obliged to monitor the implementation of amendments to the entity constitutions, as well as other legal acts, arising from them. There is also a sublegal act in the fields of education, health care, pension disability insurance, application of property regulations, etc. So, here, that would briefly be those conclusions, which actually complement our initial conclusions, the conclusions that include the discussions of MPs at the last session of Parliament. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9317	I thank the President of the Commission, Mr Jahić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9318	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have read these conclusions carefully and, what I have seen, and I would like to say from this speaker is that every conclusion written reflects a particular problem, is comprehensive to me, current and, extremely well-set. What I think is missing here is that, without, it's set without the orientation deadlines of execution, because what, should, may be today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a hundred years or never. Furthermore, business operators, who should, practically, carry out certain actions in these conclusions and, under point 7. per me, should have been decidentally said, which are also the regulations, which are, either the brakes or are currently exceeded, so they are already at this point the brakes that cannot be updated and implemented into life. That's why I suggest it goes as a conclusion, since it stands, but generally in what I put under P.S. 87. or a note at the end. It says, the proposal for a conclusion is delivered to this and to that, among other things, the Council of Ministers. Therefore, to give an additional conclusion to this matter to the Council of Ministers, to update these conclusions and to inform this Parliament, what they, within which time, have foreseen who will be the bearer of these affairs, so that, according to the fact that this Parliament will be informed 3-6 or no matter of months, we can follow in the final and execution when these deadlines and carriers are set to carry out these tasks. That's what I think you should add to these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9319	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9320	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy is certainly necessary, the conclusions will certainly help make it more complete and better. We are in a position to amend and supplement the Refugees Act, and we are also solving the situation that we are about to turn into a legal norm and thus fully regulate this issue. The strategy can be like hope, and perhaps something we won't be able to achieve, because the financial resources that we need to solve the issue of return to our own resources will certainly be difficult and there, absolutely, is no one able to predict the deadline and can last, practically, infinitely. We could use some help from the international community anyway, and last time I asked Mr. Eždaun. Could his office be involved and asked for donations, and to break the practice of world financial organisations, such as the World Bank, the IMF, which suggest that BiH politicians no longer have donations, but we can only get credit funds. Who in BiH is talking to them? They're politicians. It is those who exercise power, and why they do not accept one proposal or appeal, which we have also tried to order from here, to lead the opposite policy, politics to reach donor resources, through a mini conference, and thus provide a faster return, and then the human rights issue will be resolved, right in the categories that need it most. But since we are discussing today a proposal for conclusions on this strategy, I have made my contribution to the commission, along with other colleagues, who have indeed worked very well, and today I propose also one conclusion, which is that. To form an investigative commission tasked with determining how much financial resources BiH has received. How donor funds are spent, as well as the question, possible responsibilities related to the use of donor funds. Why am I suggesting this? At the last session, when the High Representative came to us and, when he spoke about the possibility of a mini donor conference, he said, and you can see it in a stenogram from that session. That BiH, based on donor funding, has received seven 88 billion dollars, is more than Marshall's plan and that criminals in BiH have misused the funds. I believe that this home and no one in BiH can go deaf about such a finding, and I think that we would have to act. I consider it appropriate to respond to this conclusion and to clear the issue of abuse in BiH of donor funds, given that it is said from the highest level in this parliament and from the High Representative. Of course, the High Representative should react, because he has powers, when it comes to abuse, illegality, but he told us, and we MPs are silent. We have no right to remain silent, if someone in this home, in such a way, is accusing us of such a finding. So I ask the MPs, without distinction to opposition and position, to support me in this effort and finally to establish the truth when it comes to touching the abuse of donor funds, those who were supposed to get it, did it end with other people's hands? Was there money laundering and everything that goes on with it? I believe you will support me. Don't be burdened by who was in power at the time. Is that the congregation's majority then today? Are these individuals politicians or common criminals, who were with the government, eventually did this to us? That is why I ask you to support this conclusion, because the public is certainly asking and expecting from us.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9321	I thank Ambassador Gligorić. I would beg the conclusion in writing. Mr Miloš Jovanović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9322	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I tried to draw attention to a few things, normally, respecting what the MPs said when we had a debate on this strategy. I tried to draw attention to the fact that the fact that we're staying under the Dayton Agreement is treated at the same time as the return, as a replacement or a sale of assets. I also tried to draw attention to the fact that the BiH Constitution also has an obligation to compensate for that property, which for various reasons cannot be returned. Also in the Strategy, it is proposed that reconstruction and reconstruction be carried out, I think about 50,000 different objects. I think that should also be determined in some way. So how much reconstruction will take place in the Federation of BiH, as in RS. I also said, to say, by respecting and respecting Srebrenica and here it is spoken of, means that aneks vi of Srebrenica should not be singled out, because Mr. Raguž spoke to me about Savina, Mr. Špirić was talking about Grahov, Glamoč, the woodwork, so I don't think that Srebrenica should have been singled out, because there was a discussion that other places should have been inserted. The MPs also spoke about the census, which should be implemented on their proposal in 2004. I think it was all meant to come up with a proposal for these conclusions, I say, taking care of what the MPs were saying when we discussed 89 on the Strategy. So I would suggest one conclusion that we ask that funding from donations and loans and other sources be distributed equally, at the will of people on the choice of place of life, both to returnees and to those who want to stay in the place of current residence, as well as compensation for the property, which for objective reasons cannot be returned.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9323	I thank Mr. Jovanović. I'd like to ask, too, a conclusion in writing. Who's next to the word? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9324	When it comes to the stranka for BiH, we will support, of course, the conclusions, but we do have a bit of a dilemma now after Mr Jahić, a member of the Commission, is simply now very difficult to determine what the final text of these bars looks like. Some of the conclusions Mr Jahić mentioned were subsequently established and agreed on. It was entered into the text, but something didn't. So it would be good to specify what is practical what we're deciding today, of course, including what people are proposing at this point, and in any case we're going to advocate that an extremely important document, which we have for the first time on the state level, and as far as Annex VII is concerned, gets concrete conclusions, which will guarantee both its implementation and, by the way, so to speak, one brief comment. When it comes to the debate, which is mentioned here, I first hear on the Commission about Srebrenica and the Commission's position, that it should not be singled out, etc. I want to warn you that she is, unfortunately, in a very ugly, tragic way singled out by herself as an event and no one can decide. So, she's, unfortunately, singled out as one paradigm of human suffering and I don't think it's good to try something that's in itself civilizedly isolated. When it comes to the idea and the proposal of Mr Jovanović that, in the same way, by the same criteria, funds from donations and aids, unfortunately, which will be less and less, are being directed back and back, and into staying, I think there is one discipline, or that there are different circumstances. In fact, staying is the decision of people, their goodwill, their personal decision, and the people fighting for return have been forced into a situation that they are in a position to return from where they were driven. So these people who stay, I think they're doing it based on their decision and, in my opinion, they have to do it on their own cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9325	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić picked up the phone. Incorrect quote Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9326	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, 90 I went out to say that one thesis, which was just said here by Mr Belkić, is a very dangerous thesis and is not true. Namely, those who do not want to return, as well as those who wish to return, did not leave voluntarily. They both left because they had to. Thus, he was not treated in such a way as to leave voluntarily. That someone doesn't want to come back or have anywhere to go back, so they want to stay, that's a matter of choice, like a matter of choosing a return. So it's a matter of choosing who wants to come back. Of course, we appreciate that coming back as a process is also for the international community and for people, it's more interesting if they have the opportunity and where to go back. So, for those who want to come back or not, it's more interesting to come back. It's simply not possible to characterize those who want to stay that in some way is just a matter of volunteering. So these people came out, too, because they had to, and they don't come back for a variety of reasons. Perhaps even more understandable than those who are the reason for coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9327	The word has an MP, Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9328	Thank you very much. Dearly respected presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would like to look a little bit at what is the subject of this point. When we talk about aneks vi, we need to be aware that in these eight years, Annex VII has never been implemented in the way it's written. In Annex VII, it is written that everyone will have the right to return to his home, to return to each of his assets, and where it is not possible to return that he will receive compensation. Unfortunately, it hasn't been done in eight years. Personally, I think it might have been a little better for those who had flats in social, or state-owned property, so they've been granted renewals before. But those who had their own houses and whose houses were destroyed, they were the worst. They neither got their houses back nor got the funds to rebuild them. Most often they received credit funds to restore them and what worries me, according to many returnees, is that these credits can only be spent in certain building materials stores, which are generally the most expensive and that is what should be checked when Mr Gligorić is talking about checks. So, when you return the property, you can't cross it at this point, after eight years and say we're going to do this from now on. Everything that has been done should be reviewed and all who have received the credits should then settle their grants and continue to return in such a way. That's all aneks vii. would be. When it comes to what Mr. Gligorić said. I as a member of this Parliament and a person who has, in some ways, been in power for the past decade. I can't keep my mouth shut if we're criminals, if we've spent donations like that, etc. I wish someone, who was relevant, would have told us how much we got, what number of funds and what resources were managed by domestic authorities and what side? Was there corruption? Was there an accidental spending and was there a thieving? But we insist on turning this parliament into an investigative committee. I wonder what these anti-corruption teams are gonna do? What's the D.A. gonna do? What will those who are 91 will do about it. I'm not running away from having us argue when we get information about the responsibility of the local authorities for the funds they've received and where they're at, but one general debate. But let's not be prosecutors or courts. Let's leave it to those in charge. When it comes to Srebrenica. All the cities that are numbered here and many others have indeed survived that which Bog has not given to anyone. However, Srebrenica is, I don't know, fortunately, or unfortunately one and not repeated, and God Bog it is to anyone and that request of Srebrenica addressed to the UN, I think it has its place, and let's give a special step back to Srebrenica and that sustainable return here. I think it's the obligation of all of us, the moral obligation at least. And lastly, I'm asking you colleagues to be honest with us and ask ourselves why we want a census right now? In my opinion, the census at this time, in 2004 or before the 2006 elections, is nothing more than a desire to end ethnic cleansing, to finally draw a line and sign it. The census can be carried out in BiH at a time when we have decident information that Annex VII has been implemented as a whole, which means that anyone who has filed a request to return to their homeland or has explicitly refused to return. So everyone's request has been resolved. Then we can talk about the census. With this, I am against legalising the ethnic cleansing that happened during the past working in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9329	Mr. Špirić, replica, then Mr. Bešlagić. Then before Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Gligorić blames the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9330	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I only wanted to discuss what my colleague Sead was saying. When it comes to the BiH census. It's a serious state project. It needs this state and, of course, that state institutions should decide when the census in BiH will be implemented. Those who read the international documents carefully will see that the European Union plans before the 2006 regular elections and suggests that it would be good for this country to implement the census, so that all levels of government will assume responsibility in line with demographic structure. It has nothing to do with the ethnic cleansing and what Mrs Palavrić was talking about and I think it is causing great damage to the BiH state. Niko one can avoid responsibility for what he did during the war and it is most important to find out, let's say when it comes to it, but that this country needs a list that is more than clear, because there is no measurable data in this country where, in accordance with European statistics, we can answer it in a transparent manner, no gross social product, no how many people in BiH. So we're going to have to deal with it, but when it does, what's missing in the population, so what's been killed in the war, and that's close to 300,000 please nice, and that needs to be determined. To say, which resulted in this 92 tragedy, not to speak now, not to mention responsibility. It will be treated in a special way, but I think the list is something that should not be undermined by the geneses of cleaning, this or that, but as a necessary, serious state project. And, I would pray, therefore, that I don't think that a colleague, colleague Palavrić, wanted me to understand it this way or anyone else, but that what's called the list we promote as an important thing for this country and its entities and its citizens, and all the other segments regarding the processing of crime, etc. are the things that this country will do, I guess, and this when it's said until aneks vi is realized. Is there anyone in this country who can say and when they're going to say, the echo annex is realized. I can tell you that Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Accords isn't over until the last man returns to his hearth. But when we do, does that mean we're gonna postpone the list? That's why we're talking about the list as an important state project. And, second thing, please, I've said it here in public and I repeat it here. Srebrenica is the biggest tragedy, Drvar is the biggest disgrace of the government, but we must try to separate here as responsible people from what will also be a trend of practical processes in BiH. The same is the right of that unfortunate man in the Drava or the Hrvat in Posavina or Srebrenica to get his home. And, please give this thesis, so that we don't gently force the future of this country and that those who need to comply, in accordance with the laws of domestic and international and I think it would be good here and that we create such an atmosphere, with great respect that every home, no matter where it should be restored. Srebrenica needs thousands of ways to help. So, thousands, but not to create genes everywhere and when and when we don't have to, just in that sense, because I'm afraid it produces cramps and it's not good for those we want to help. With me, of course, it won't produce it, but it won't, unfortunately, depend largely on it, but here when it comes to the state's relationship, according to what's called a state project, we, as people who look into the future, have to do it, at least get the strength to do it exactly, just looking at the future, and what's going on, will of course be a matter of some other special considerations and special... in that sense, maybe not, it won't get Sead mad at me, but I wanted to stress the need for what's called a state project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9331	I thank Mr. Špirić. Now it's a false allegation, Mr. Gligorić's correction, so Mr. Jahić, then the discussion of Mr. Bešlgić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9332	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed an investigative committee aimed at determining how much financial resources BiH has received, based on donations, as they have been spent and whether there have been, possibly, abuses. Mrs. Palavrić, I expected from you both as a lawyer and as an MP, who in public advocates truth and justice, that you will support me. I didn't accuse anyone here. I didn't even mention the parties that were in power at the time, but if I don't get your support and your Mrs. Palavrić, then you clearly made it clear that you want a period that was characterized and robbed by donor funds, in this way covered. I therefore expect your support and therefore I am prepared to apologize to 93 if the conclusion gets the majority and gets most certainly the Party of Democratic Action. Also, you said about ethnic cleansing when you spoke. To list would be cementing such a state. And I'm telling you, a normal country requires a census so we can have a development strategy. If you don't know what you have in the country, how will you know what you have in your possession of human, Cdrove and any other potential? There's no way this country's developing. So if you want political, that's great, that's good for you, keep going, talk 50 years next about it. But if you're going to speak professionally, logically and what BiH needs, then it's something that's past and something that you don't need today... So please, yes, the conclusion I suggested was that from the highest point of view, because we heard such tones here, it was a crime. Imagine seven billion dollars, which is more than Marshall's plan, that the High Representative tells MPs in this House, or the Parliamentary Assembly of both homes that these are criminals who have abused them. And, therefore, Mrs. Palavrić, when you say that I would judge and sue, I, as an MP, have the democratic right to suggest something. You have the right to refuse or accept that. You also have the opportunity to identify yourself in everything you've done, but ask the opposition MP why you can't determine something in this country, and you're in power, then it's been many years today and you haven't solved this issue as a previous issue of crime in this country, where we're being accused at all levels in the international community. That's why I expect the SDA to support my proposal, as well as other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9333	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Kolega Jahić, the messenger of honor, answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9334	I'd just like to ask and warn you of one thing. So we are discussing the Commission's conclusions, which should be complemented by the Strategy. I'm under the impression we don't have that fact in mind. Maybe some of them didn't even teach the strategy until the end, and I don't think these conclusions that we, I say, came to an end yesterday. We also have another law on Wednesday, so tomorrow it will be in parliamentary procedure. So, the law amending the Refugees Act, where some of the things we're talking about right now are going to be defined by law and some strategy. What was I gonna say? So, at yesterday's session, we didn't single out any areas. I'll read again what we said. So, to highlight certain areas of the BiH region as priority return assistance, and based on the established criteria, such as the interest in return, in setting up the assistance so far, as well as other criteria, to be defined by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons. It is therefore formed within the competent Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, which will distribute funds on the basis of criteria etc. That's what he was talking about. We can't say within the conclusions, here's how much we're going to give this entity, this much of that area, etc. 94 As for Srebrenica, therefore, this is my personal opinion. We can't just bring Srebrenica back to the problem. You know, there are in BiH, there are other environments where return is difficult, there are problems with coming back. However, Srebrenica stands out from other areas according to what happened in Srebrenica and as far as I know, so there is one initiative, we will see if it will be that, perhaps, a special law on Srebrenica is passed. So, what I'm saying is that within this material, no area is singled out. Also, there were more speeches here, I don't know the list, etc. I don't really know how many of those there are. I agree with many of the discussions that were here, but how much this has to do with this, with the conclusions on Annex VII's strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9335	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić, the replica was sought by Mr. Jovanović. I think my colleague Jahić's discussion was about what should be done today. That was our conclusion. So, that's what the commission suggested, and if someone has a special conclusion, we'll get to the bottom of it, but I think this was a useful suggestion. Comrade Jovanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9336	I really just want to explain, since I'm a member of the Commission. So yesterday at the same time there were two commissions, at the same time. So I was the chairman of one committee, so I wasn't present at the beginning of this second commission when this was changed. So I just got this one this morning, let me say, a new draft of conclusions, so what I'm saying is I'm pulling, about Srebrenica, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9337	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Mr. Selim Bešlagić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9338	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to say that this is a continuation of the 18th session, which envisioned the conclusion of the Human Rights Commission. Believe me, since 15.05, when we discussed these things, we continued 17.07. The Commission has met twice, respecting all the remarks, I would say to the members of the Commission. I wouldn't want to discuss anything here at all, because at those sessions we showed, I would say my views and the coma is, appreciating everything that was here at the session, precisely respecting that strategy as such with these conclusions, gives one whole, which could pass as such. What I'd like to point out is, something I'd like to ask you to see what we can do as this home. It happens to us that someone comes out for this pay phone and says that in BiH everything is a thief, and we don't have the conditions and conditions to say if it isn't. 95 The second thing, then what is left for us as MPs? We as MPs are left to say let's form a commission to do this. I deeply believe that this commission won't do anything, but it's the only way we can get some kind of answer about it. Seven billion when you say it like this, and that's what Mr. High Representative said about this phone booth is a huge asset, in which, I'm telling you, out of seven billion and billions went to finance, I'd say international institutions. I would like to know really whether that seven billion came to BiH or out of those seven billion people went to them and the flood here in BiH. Come on, can we make a deal like this? Let's find a home modus from who to look for these answers. I would be happy if we were dealing with problems as parliamentarians who we are, and let's see which institutions can give us these answers. In that sense, I support Mr Gligorić, but not from the point of view that we form a commission, but to make one request, but to see who, to deliver it to us and on the basis that we then form a commission to check it out. I mean, the simple system is how this home is set free, but, please, we don't have any answers to any of the questions we've asked anyone. That's the problem. I would ask, I say, the legal institutions of this house to see a moduso in which this home can seek answers to certain questions. Like this, I'm afraid we'll just form committees and we'll turn into something. But I'm telling you, we're not going to get any answers, because on our demands we didn't get the material to discuss. I mean, Mr. Gligorić's question is justified to me. I'm afraid we're going to turn into investigating committees, but the fact that a man came out here and said seven billion you've got. And we didn't get an answer about how much BiH really got in those seven billion, how much it went for international institutions, how much it went for other things, and I wish I knew that truth. On the other hand, one problem that arises here and I don't want to because it's not in the conclusions, but in this part, donations have been received by both municipalities and various NGOs and various, let's say, international organisations that have realised these projects. Now the question is whether this commission will be able to do it, but who is who might give us the answer to this question? I'm really powerless to give an answer, and so I'd like to ask you to let us put it into conclusions, respecting that, as a commission, we've been sitting two or three times on these issues, and it seems to me that we've been able to come to conclusions that would satisfy it, we haven't satisfied everything, but it's normal, and I wouldn't want to discuss it because last time I've discussed these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9339	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. Ambassador Ljiljana Milićević called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9340	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to contribute to returning the subject, and I would like to say a few sessions ago, was most of the story being told today when we discussed the Strategy as a document. There's been a lot of talk about what's happening today. What I'm saying is that the proposal we received this morning actually reflects what we were saying here at the session when this was a topic and shows, in fact, that our colleagues who worked on this commission have invested 96 and a lot of time and effort. What's the big deal here? It is important that we, as parliament, understand that the powers and tasks are that they are eventually at home institutions. And now we have, therefore, gentlemen by the name and last name of whoever is responsible. It is known from which moment is responsible for the implementation of this strategy, which appeared as a document. We agreed to draw conclusions for a simple reason, so if there was a failure in the framework document of the Strategy, it would be installed and suggested to the competent ministry. So, we now know the name and last name of which the ministry will from now on work on the strategy and implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, so as not to interfere with certain things. Secondly, we know well that there is a ministry in front of this and the creation of a database and the establishment of a fund. That's what we're gonna follow. These conclusions provide for every six months of information. So there will be a item of the agenda on entities, cantons, at both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, reporting on the implementation of Annex VII, therefore, of the Strategy. It's also beautifully written here, so we'll be reported, and here it's written in 7.b. that it is necessary to show how much money has been invested so far in return for entities and overall, as well as new priorities. So that every session we don't make one investigative committee, although, personally, I mean, it's really already deguant that we form each session at a time. Perhaps we should show a sharper statement here and say that it is necessary, therefore, to the ministry which is currently dealing with this problem, it needs time to collect data, which will present the next time the report is submitted, because it needs to be reported by the entity, and in future, that we have, therefore, in the next six months, how much funds are targeted at, where are the sources of funds, in which way are they distributed? So, I think, in fact, what's the priority, it's mentioned a little bit here. The problem is dear colleagues in the self-sustainability of the returnee. That's the problem. The problem is for us people in BiH inside BiH, so they haven't returned to their property, and a special item, I would say that the people who are abroad, who... whether or not they want to, are what we can offer them. So that's what I'd like to focus on and I'd like the discussion to go on in that sense. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9341	I thank my colleague Milićević. The word has a leading Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9342	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what I had to say about this, I spoke when we discussed the Strategy and on several occasions on the committee, which prepared these conclusions and I will, indeed, try to be brief. I think Mr. Jahić has now given the coordinates and directed where this item of the agenda should end today, but perhaps it is not burned, after all that has been said today, a few things to say. I support the conclusions because we worked them together and I don't want to open the debate here again about them. I believe that to the most extent, I would say, they reflect what 97 was the point of the strategy debate, and it is good that today representatives of the resolution ministry are present, because without these doves, believe me, the strategy is not even 30% of the quality. I would like to say responsibly, Parliament has made a major contribution through these conclusions to the Strategy to gain one quality and framework so that we can deal with this problem in quality. As far as the priorities are concerned, I think we need to say clearly here today, that through tomorrow's, I hope to amend and supplement the Refugees Act, we will round up the institutional structure of BiH: the Ministry of State, the Return Fund and the Commission, and we need to clearly distinguish their responsibility and put it before this Parliament. I only have a supplement to this conclusion that speaks of priorities, so they don't politicize. I'm not into politicizing priorities. We said set the criteria. Let the Council of Ministers determine. Let's give him three months. Make it three months. I think it is a real deadline for us to have in front of Parliament and in front of the public what are priorities, based on criteria. Here, not party, not individual, be taken all relevant criteria. I think that conclusion, that way we can strengthen a lot of these issues that have opened up in this way today. But I answered the most to say, look out, Mr. Eždaun told us what he said, and then he told us gentlemen, the interest of the international return community has weakened and you will have to deal with it only further. It is, indeed, so that we will have to deal with it ourselves. Let us then, indeed, focus this as a priority, perhaps one number one, not a political issue, to which we will further divide, because for me it is both Srebrenica and Drvar and Posavina, indeed, something that can in no way be brought into question as a problem, as an interest in BiH, and, of course, in that context, we would have to take these priorities on ourselves and treat them that way. I think that the deadline for these priorities, based on established criteria, must be up to three months to appear before Parliament and in this way we have a vision of what will be done by all these institutional structures and by the ministry and by the return funds from both the state commission and the entity governments in the coming period, because I fear we will remain on this one, I would say more politically than on the operational level, and I think that this is necessary in these conclusions, in particular, to specify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9343	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Ivo Miro Jović answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9344	I thank the gentlemen of the chair, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, esteemed ministers, it is a very short issue and it is no wonder that we have been talking about it for a long time and fortunately that we are talking about such a problem. There are conclusions ahead of us today. I would also like to point out exactly some of the shortcomings in these conclusions. In point 2, state bodies were tried to count with an exceptional falinka or a lack. When it comes to the donation of funds, then we have entities and county and municipalities, and when it comes to considering the Strategy there is no word about counties, and certainly that they, you will agree, have their part and place in the complete story of what we are talking about today 98 or leave out what is numbered or consciousness under the state bodies of the executive and legislative authority, and not only remain at the Council of Ministers of BiH, entity parliaments and the homes of the BiH Parliament. I don't think it's good. If we're counting, then count all those who need to participate in it, if not, then bring them down under these common denominators. I would also like to say here in this whole proposal of conclusions, contrary to the strategy that we have, in every place Brcko District is mentioned with both its bodies and its funds, etc. We don't even mention it here when we're counting. I think Brcko is an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this respected home also has a commitment to care for what is happening there. I don't want to be too poly, but there's a lot of disappointment every time more and worse falling on that space, with a particular reason why an international clerk there plays a top role in every segment of life, even on the way back. You know this, it's rare that this body isn't ambushed so I don't point to the problems there. Look at what's going on, even though the list of people isn't made. Only in Brcko District is it not worth the '91 list. A year. It's a sad thing for an international clerk to do that. There in the Electoral Law, I am paraphrasing, and I want to signal this respected home to worry, there it is being signaled that a number of Croats will be assigned to the work of the Brcko District Parliament. It is not allowed in those systems that were a hundred or two years ago, and not at this time when the international community in one space of BiH should provide an exceptional opportunity, see us on the side that it is possible and how one progress can be made in the overall segment of life in one space, where they are solely in charge of implementing the legal regulation. So I think, here, speaking of conclusions, next to the entity name to add the Brcko District, for these reasons, at least that I said. When point 3 is concerned and the database is being worked, here is the second or third time I say and I want to know in that review, certainly speaking and thanking this time all those who donated the funds, who gave and provided one credit that is on favourable terms, but I want to know and we need to worry about that, that the database contains in which end it has been spent and into which naturals to return. So I also want to have a folk structure of return and spending funds. And, in particular, I want to rephrase item 10, and I wrote it, and I want to read it in full. The Strategy does not highlight the problems of returnees and the return of the property of refugees from other countries, not the Republic of Croatia, who live in BiH today, so it is necessary at the state level to launch a solution to these issues with those countries. Will you agree that only in this country do not the returnees live, in fact refugees from Croatia.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9345	I thank Ambassador Ivo Miri Jović. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 99 Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the conclusions of our commission, we have the conclusions that the House has proposed here, of course within all these MPs individually. I propose that we first and that is also a business statement on the conclusions of the MPs, and we will eventually vote on the Commission's conclusions. We'll finish everything right. I beg of you, we'll take the order of conclusions. So, in the order of conclusions, and ultimately we will be told about the material proposed by the Commission. A colleague, Džaferović, is asking for the speaker's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9346	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have not taken part in the debate over these conclusions, for the reason I believe that this debate can be said a lot of what, and, secondly, it was present for this speaker. The Commission sat down and made a decision and proposed conclusions. This is not what I consider amendments to what the Commission has determined, but these are the special requirements of the MPs. We have the commission's position, I ask you not to come to a situation where we have no conclusions today, to make a statement about the position of the commission, that is, because these are not the controversial things that have come before this House, and then the demands of some MPs. If we do it the other way around, first of all, to declare the demands of MPs, I'm afraid we will question the full conclusions of the commission. These, therefore, are not amendments to the MPs, but are their proposals for the conclusions to be made, following the Commission's proposals. All in order to get Parliament's position as soon as possible on this important document called the Return Strategy, which needs to be realised. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9347	I thank my fellow chairman. Here you go. I'd like to beg, we'll bring this to an end on business, you don't have any worries.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9348	I'm sorry, but I want to say it. We have a strategy ahead of us and then we'll discuss it tomorrow. Then the conclusions were not supposed to be on the agenda today. If we've already had them and discussed this issue, and I want to respect the opinion I've expressed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9349	Of course, I am not the chairman of those who abuse this pay phone, so please, I invite all my colleagues to stick to what we concluded at Parliament's session when we discussed the strategy. Our conclusion is that we are in charge of the Commission for Refugees, Human Rights Immigration and Asylum to prepare for us after the debate the text of the conclusions on which this Parliament will plead and please let's finish the job the way we started at the session when we authorised this commission to do its part of the job. That's just what I want to say not wanting to go into 100 debates at all about other individual proposals. I'll tell you about it when the ballots are up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9350	I thank the Vice-President, of course, I want us of these four conclusions to have one that is the amendment's conclusion. This is Mr. Raguž, where it is said that point 7c - to complete the first sentence with a three-month period, so, the Council of Ministers, this is an amendment, the rest are special conclusions, so I would ask you, therefore, that what is amendment to make a statement. So, to accept this as an amendment and to really state these conclusions because they are defined as individual conclusions and, of course, it is the right of the MPs to declare them in the way they see the conclusion. Do you agree? Well, thank you very much. You have therefore helped me declare Mr Raguž's amendment, where point 7c says to supplement the first sentence with a period of 3 months, I think it is precise and that it gives a good deadline to the Council of Ministers of 3 months to agree on the criteria. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I thank you, and we unanimously adopted Mr. Martin Raguž's amendment. We are now declaring ourselves on the Commission's proposal for a conclusion with this integrated amendment. You don't have amendment Miro this is the conclusion, in the strategy they're not, please, just not a little bit of an amendment these are conclusions, we'll make a statement about them, now we're pleading, so this could have been accepted as an amendment where the sentences in the conclusions change. All that is a special conclusion will be put to the statement, and of course it will be an integral part if it goes beyond what is called the Council of Ministers' obligation strategy. By what, then we vote on it, I would only ask you to follow each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9351	I'm sorry, but there are no problems with the return and return of Croatian refugees living in Bosnia and Herzegovina today. Human rights, property rights, and it is necessary to launch these issues at national level with the Republic of Croatia. The name of the Republic of Croatia, I have offered an amendment to verify itself as other countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9352	So, Miro, I absolutely appreciate you saying it's called the amendment. I have here a conclusion where you don't say from that and that, in that order add to delete, 101 so it might be.. Wait a minute, that's how you put it, but I don't mind, says point 10 of the Strategy, there are no specific problems of returnees and the return of the property of refugees from other countries that live today, so it is necessary to run these issues at national level with those countries. So, no, I don't mind that my colleague Miro defines the amendment only you can't put this into those conclusions unless you say where Croatia writes I don't know, I'll accept that amendment just giving the definitions, it's not dispute whether we accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9353	Point 10 of the whole would have read and I wrote it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9354	And at the tenth point of the 10th, you change in whole. Okay, but then this can be accepted as an amendment, but it would be good to say I'm changing points 10, so I can't understand it because the amendment is a point. Do you agree to plead this as an amendment? Who's in favour of accepting this amendment? Well, of course, everyone, the other thing is what's the dominant problem. Who's against it? One against. Are there any abstentions? One abstention. I find that with one vote against, one abstention, we have adopted this amendment. We are now pleading on the Commission's conclusions with the amendments in place. Who's in favour of accepting the Commission's conclusions on these two integrated amendments? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 1 abstentions I konstatovati that with 1 vote abstention, and others for adopting the Commission's conclusions with two amendments in place. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two left that are part of the Strategy. Of course, this all becomes an integral part of the Strategy that we discussed and adopted. He had two special conclusions. It is the conclusion of Mr Tihomir Gligorić and the conclusion of Mr Jovanović. We will go in order, Mr Gligorić is asking for Parliament to adopt a conclusion, to form an investigative commission tasked with determining 102 of BiH's financial resources, a way of spending financial resources, as well as a question of possible responsibility regarding the misuse of donor funds. Who's in favor of adopting this conclusion? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen, from the 38 present to the 27 against the 1.9 abstentions. We've got most of it. We're going to an entity statement. Who is this conclusion from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's from the Federation of Conclusions? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ladies and gentlemen, from Federation 19 for, uh, Republika Srpska 8 for. I understand we adopted Mr. Tihomir Gligorić's conclusion. We move on to Mr. Jovanović's conclusion. Therefore, funds from donations, loans and other sources are required to be allocated equally to the will of the people and to choose the place of life as returnees, both to returnees and to those who wish to remain in the place of the current apartment and to an asset that cannot be returned for objective reasons. Who's in favour of adopting this as a conclusion? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 38, 14 present for, v. 18, abstention 6.. I konstatuj that this conclusion has not been reached by the majority, there is no need for an entity statement. With this we have exhausted the debate and the vote on the 1st item of the agenda, I will inform the Council of Ministers on these specific conclusions, I hope that this conclusion that we adopted on Mr Gligorić's proposal will be held at the next session on the structure and composition and task of the Commission, so that the moloper will try to define the Commission's tasks together with the others and the Commission's composition. Thank you. Moving to Ad2. Consideration of the Management Commission's report on the Decision on the harmonisation of Members' salaries with the salaries of ministers and the proposal for measures. 103 The proposer of the agenda was Mrs Sead Palavrić. As far as I know about this item of the agenda, no written material has been prepared and I ask the Proposer if he needs to explain his proposal. Here's expecting from the President of the Commission, so who's answering for the word? Commission President Mr Jusufovic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9355	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to brief you in the shortest possible way on this agenda point, believing that everything that the Commission has done so far has been very well informed. But we're going to do a few more things one more time. But let me tell you, in the shortest time I'm a gene, I'm going to try the telegraph, so let me say that these and the next dots have some touching connections, so I'm going to eventually mention somewhere in the end I might not report on the next one, and if necessary, I'm going to get involved in the next one. The Commission for the Administrative Affairs of this House, together with the Commission on Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples, has, within its respective competences as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, done the job truth with the delay and this has been re-analysed by the '96 Decision. or '97, which says that the coefficients at Parliament's level will be aligned with the Council of Ministers and are set out in such a way as to say parameters and sizes. I have to say that we were 5-6-7 months late for the basic reason that we had no information that the Council of Ministers after the election was 07.12. So in that period, practically vacuum, so to speak, made an increase in the salaries of ministers and deputies. We normally asked the Council of Ministers and finally got one such information and did a job within their jurisdiction to coordinate the coefficients, because our jurisdiction is not pay or pay, so that's not what this commission does. It's the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction because they determine the basis. Therefore, I ask you not to confuse this by saying some concepts, the Commission is only working within its jurisdiction to describe it by saying business, synchronising the coefficients, and it has done so. On this issue, one of our members of the Commission, Honorable counterpart Džaferović, has seen the decision in his own way, and he has objected. Since it is also in the jurisdiction of these committees, I am now speaking together, that, even in the second-degree process, the debate and to make the right decision, we have discussed such a single objection, and very analytically, systematically using all the powers, we have found that we have stuck to strict jurisdiction and that Mr Džaferović's objection is immaterial and not established. That's the decision he made. As far as these commissions are concerned, the legal resources are practically finished. Behind that, somewhere Mr Lagundžija showed up with, this is what I'm saying to the genesis entire with a resolution at 104 Parliament and has also come to the Commission. Something like that was there, you have content. However, a problem has arisen that since the commissions of both homes made a decision on what would happen if we were in charge, it was not known first who was in charge. We have received from the College to declare practically competent this commission and to put this resolution in the process by having a great difficulty, which possibly if we had made any decision here and to accept the House of Peoples did not want to lead the debate on the matter. He felt that he did not want to be asked, so that in a certain way, our hands were tied and we had any debate. However, the final conclusion that this would not be difficult, and it seems to me that Parliament has concluded, in his conclusion, that the Commission should give its opinion and we are still the question, why am I saying this, because I am going to tell you some conclusions after the Commission. We had a discussion on two occasions and on this point, although it was a similar matter, so I would say the questions that Mr. Džaferović also had from the other corner, on two occasions we held a debate. I would say that the debate was conducted if we could say so in a very constructive spirit, both by the members of the Commission and by Mr Lagundžija, that we had a lot of touch points but that we were diverged in the essential matter, which was about Mr Džaferović in his complaint and Mr Lagundžija had been throwing this whole time at the salary and we were at the coefficient. So we stick to jurisdiction, we're the organ that uses our jurisdiction. Since in many ways the conclusions we have made to Mr Lagundžija are a good part of it is practically this, in the very conclusions, we felt that it was best to withdraw its resolution, we were later told that the resolution could not be accepted in part, but rather take it or leave it. For these reasons, you will then hear the conclusions of the Commission. That's about how the debate went. What the Commission did for the first time when it made its decision. So she matched the coefficients but immediately made the decision to say that she would move strictly within the available budget and that she, by, insists and asks for the budget to be rebalanced. That was more of those early months. Unfortunately, the budget rebalance was delayed, late, and now we have a budget rebalance proposal. Thus, the Commission then concluded that both commissions would strictly adhere to the budget foreseen in the adopted budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing to follow. We didn't know about the budget rebalance. As long as it's accepted. Whether it's 0 or 100,000 or 200.00. I don't need to get to know you personally because you all know very well when we adopted the budget under what conditions the budget was adopted. That this is highly underestimated, it has even happened that the budget for this year is smaller than for the previous year, and that in the analysis that we've been doing for 6 months, let's see the reflections of this passage that we're talking about, we've found that 21 MPs from the previous term, after that decision, receive compensation, that it's at an annual level of around 600-700 thousand. These are expenses that weren't in the previous year. However, we respect the decision. Furthermore, that more professional MPs than it was in the previous year also significantly increased, so the finding that in 6 months, financial discipline is highly respected, so that many and many items, 105 many costs are reduced compared to the previous year, etc. That was the conclusion of all the members of the Commission. However, we have continued to stick to the end of the principle that the Commission, under this decision, implies and will follow such a single conclusion, that together with the Commission for Budgets and Finance, each month analyses Parliament's trajects and lowers them to the budget size assigned, so as to say the relations with the clear intention of making it clear that Parliament will strictly stick to the intended financial budgeted sizes, i.e. in the rebalancing that we need to adopt. As it will be adopted, it will come to the agenda, so we will take a look at the rest of the budget spending. We further suggest that this House, if we are already introducing a strict financial discipline for Parliament, that strict respect for the foreseen budget for all budgetary users at the level of BiH institutions is strictly respected because they are responsible for this Parliament and that we follow the implementation. In order to avoid the Commission's volunteering on some issues, we have taken the decision and set out to prepare a law that will regulate all these issues in order to resolve them in some way. That's why we got the OHR's support, and that's why the law is working, so there are expert working teams who are already working to solve these issues systematically. On the one hand, it also means for all these bearers of functions, MPs and, on the other hand, for example, to all other countries where there are a lot of these, to say the same experiences and materials, to resolve the issues and those institutions that are created for us in a certain way, and to determine some wages so that they cannot be combined and transferred to the budget. A single coefficient system for all BiH institutions will practically be created. So the procedure is this law, and we think we're going to get support from you, too, to strengthen the Commission's practical intentions. Furthermore, the Commission's conclusion, we propose that you support the Commission's work so far. We hope you do. If you do not support the other mechanism remains because Parliament does not have the authority to change our decisions so that you can change us, because you have appointed us, you can change us and therefore we suggest that you adopt the work so far if you do not change us. And under the circumstances, the Commission proposes that the resolution be rejected as groundless and unfounded because all of this, which is said to be respected by financial discipline, that the law is in progress, that we haven't even talked about wages, absolutely resolution doesn't make any sense, and I suggest that Mr Lagundžija withdraw the resolution, or if it doesn't, we suggest that we don't even have some discussion, means that it refuses to be unfounded and immaterial because it's not, it's practically not in our jurisdiction that what, I suggest Mr Lagundžija doesn't seem to be in the power of Parliament either, because the Council of Ministers should be referred to it if it needs to cut the salaries, here is the Deputy Minister of the Treasury, so it's possible to give us an explanation. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9356	I thank the President of the Commission, I think it was necessary for him to submit a report like this. I appreciate that this is about the important Commission, the only Commission that has come from the outsets that apply, I think that these topics that are here today and we're talking 106 very sensitive topics here, and I think that the Commission has worked in every way and in a way that has offered this Parliament conclusions. Whoever comes forward for discussion, for word's sake. Mr. Šefik Džaferović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9357	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Munib Jusufović for saying in a very correct way in the opening statement I also conveyed my views during the debate on this very important issue for me at the joint meetings of the administrative committees of both the home of the Paramentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I have the need here to say that I do not agree with Mr Munib Jusufović when he talks about the decision of the Administrative Commissions of 09.04.2003, only the alignment of the coefficients of us working professionally in this House, which is practically all of us here in this House are MPs except for a few exceptions, so this Decision has led to a real increase in salaries and receipts of MPs. The increase was made by about 600 to 650 marks from MPs to MPs depending on years of work. That's true and the public needs to know, because from 01.05. the envelopes are thicker for this amount for the amount of 600 to 650 marks. I warned the Commission all the time that no matter what the discussion was about harmonising the coefficients that the practical effect was an increase in wages and demanded that it not be done, unfortunately I failed, I did not want to fight any other fight afterwards, I waited a day for this home to come into a situation to discuss this issue. So I want to repeat now what I've said only once about this issue in the media. This decision of distinguished colleagues is neither moral nor legal. It is not moral for us to raise our salaries in such an economic social situation and it is not legal to make a decision at the time when a certain budget is in force that is more affected than that budget at the time it allows, to make an increase in wages on the basis of an expected rebalancing is not legal. I invite you today to adopt the conclusion that I'm going to suggest now. Here's a proposal for a conclusion. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires the administrative committees of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to put their Decision No 01/7,02/3-011-509/03 of 09.04.2003. Two are also in charge of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's accounting to pay lawmakers from 01.05. In 2003, it is based on a decision which was in force before the adoption of the contested Decision of 09.04.2003, so that accounting applies until the Administrative Commission puts its decision out of force. 107 This second conclusion, therefore, to apply immediately is that this home together with the House of Nations is the only institution in this country that controls budget spending and budget spending. No matter what the Administrative Commission whose jurisdiction has stepped outside the budget, we can as a House because we manage the budget, we approve the budget, we approve its rebalancing, we control the implementation of the budget, we as a home have to react this way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9358	I thank Mr. Džaferović, who continues to answer the word? Here's Mr. Jusufović, as president of the Commission, has the need to explain, Mr. Gligorić, whether he answered the word, not ok.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9359	I just want to give a brief explanation that perhaps you did not listen to the panel's conclusions, at least you were on the Commission and several times when we discussed it. This second conclusion of yours, which is an opportunity for accounting to do so, and that Parliament, or the House, has the right, is absolutely well founded but our conclusion is that by the end of the year, it must strictly adhere to the budgeted budget sizes adopted. Given what's different than how it's rebalanced, how do we know if there's going to be a reduction most likely according to what we're supposed to do in the rebalancing process, there's going to have to be a reduction not only in wages but also in all other budgetary positions. So that's the conclusion I don't know what this one is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9360	I thank my colleague Jusufović. Mr. Džaferović has a need to replicate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9361	Dear counterpart Jusufović, the budget is the law and it is valid in time and space, and we all need to act and respect the laws at a time when these laws apply. A valid budget is not the budget that will be adopted by this home rebalance in 15, 20 or a month. And it wasn't valid for Munibe, my colleague Jusufović or 09.04 when the Administrative Commission considered this issue, but it was, but it was, because this budget is valid today and this budget, which is still valid today, and it was also in force on 09.04. it has the funds for wages measured by the coefficients that were in force before you in the Administrative Commission made the decision of 09.04. and that is the whole problem. Do not make a decision, ignore the existing situation, and then expect these funds to be imposed by the rebalance. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9362	I thank my colleague Džaferović, here's Mr. Jusufović I would pray here that I think we all understand each other at the end. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9363	I must remind you, Mr Džaferović, I am sure that you know that the budget is no law and that the budget law regulates what you are talking about and we adopt it every time. The second budget is made for one calendar year and not for 6 and 3 months and in the course of the calendar year according to the budget implementation law and the monitoring is monitored and we are sure that for this financial year we will strictly adhere to the budgeted sizes. However, in order not to conduct a debate really I don't see the reasons you have the suggestions you might still have some commissions to do what Mr. Džaferović is saying, he told us. Well, we were 15 people, but I have to say 15 from two homes, it's about very serious people from all kinds of professions. So all of this said the same thing, we analyzed everything, we used experts, and in the end, what we concluded was that Mr. Džaferović's objection was immaterial and unfounded, and I suggest that you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9364	I thank you for saying this to Mr. Jahić, so Mr. Zlatko Lagundžija, I apologize to Izet Hadžić, I'm sorry I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9365	It may be a bit of an unpopular subject, but I want here as an MP to support the views of the Administrative Commission, which is to match the coefficients in the receipts between MPs and ministers. So the MP's coefficient minister. And as far as the legality of the implementation of the budget is concerned, it is on the Council of Ministers which, by coefficienting the value of the coefficient or point, regulates that the funds are spent within the budget and the law. And so it wasn't the Administrative Commission that, by harmonising the coefficients, it was the Council of Ministers who had to monitor the coefficients and determine the value of the coefficient so as not to violate the budget items. And I don't want it to deplete, but I'd like to call on the MPs for one collegiation to give the value of our work, which is that we have the same value in the coefficient, and I'm not talking at all about the height of the salary, and I said that I don't care about it, but I'm interested in how I'm worth it in relation to other members of the government, considering, in particular, that MPs control the work of the Council of Ministers and Ministers otherwise and ministries, I guess we have the right to have the same value in the financial circumstances. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9366	Thank you, Mr. Hadžić, Dr. Zlatko Lagundžija has answered his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9367	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, you made it the way you did, you put the agenda this way, although it was logical, and the sequence of 109 proposals was that the resolution goes first, and then this, the agenda point, because the thing would be much simpler. Mr Džaferović's proposal is nothing more than a paraphrase of point 1 of this resolution, which is ahead of us under the next agenda. However, I am afraid that here, knowingly or unconsciously, there is a confusion that will result in us not achieving the goals or the one that I believe has Mr. Džeferović or I as a motion for a resolution. In fact, this is what Mr Jusufović was talking about, Parliament can replace the Commission if it considers that the Commission has done something against the legal anti-political policy in force in this parliament. Parliament can also do another thing, and it can state its position on revolving political issues through an appropriate resolution for which all BH institutions, including the Administrative Commission, have an obligation to implement it and then the Commission, within its jurisdiction, should do so if it does not implement it, then Parliament should relieve it if it does not resign itself. It is a procedure under our Rules of Procedure and I am afraid that this conclusion that has been given here is actually being introduced into a situation where the debate on Parliament's competences and the Administrative Commission will be held again. The Administrative Commission is the only one who has an executive decision that Mr. Munib spoke of. I would therefore ask you, Mr. Chairman, therefore, that I fully support the very natural intensities that are given here in this point and this proposal by Mr. Džaferović, but this does not solve the problem but we are entering into discussions on jurisdiction and we say in that conclusion that the Commission has done something administrative that is against the law. I do not dispute that this is the case, but I think it is, therefore, that we support Mr. Džaferović's conclusion once again, because we believe that he is, introducing a new confusion, is not solving the problem because this problem is Poslanik solved in accordance with the resolution, which is the next item of the agenda, which will have the opportunity to talk about all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9368	Thanks to my colleagues, my colleague Lagundžija, I just want to say that the agenda of this session has been jointly determined, so there is no possibility that we can apply the agenda on this sequel, nor has that happened. I regret if it reminds you of what Zlatko was talking about and I think we will be very successful with both agenda points in one parliamentary procedure. Mr. Džaferović answered for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9369	Mr. Lagundžija, this is therefore an attempt to answer what you just said about the pay phone. So, I have the impression that it is much more important for you to have an initiative to address some issue than to solve it in 110 proper and quality ways. It's my impression of this, from your discussion, because it's obvious that you would like to discuss what I suggest to be discussed solely and only on the basis of the resolution that you've invested. I am sorry that you feel that way because I supported your resolution on the Commission and here I am now publicly saying that I will support your resolution today when there is a point of the agenda. But what I'd like to ask you is that when it comes to the proposal of my conclusions you use the word, the word that it will cause confusion, that it will cause a debate about jurisdiction. The proposal for my conclusion is quite clear. Its aim is to establish a situation that was valid but immediately and now until 09.04 until the day in force, until the decision of the administrative committees was taken. There's nothing wrong with me, Mr. Lagundžija. I've solved all the dilemmas in this matter a long time ago, and I'm already acting in accordance with what I think and how I've spoken and how I'm talking about this pay phone. I'm not going to talk about your resolution now, so I'm going to say,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9370	I ask that the resolution be the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9371	Of course, you're right, Mr. Chairman, so, when it comes to the agenda, my conclusion is precise, he's touching questions of course as well as your resolution but allow it to be an autonomous conclusion, a legitimate conclusion, a conclusion that precisely defines things from today immediately and that the Dom declares it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9372	For the word again, I thank my colleague Džaferović, for his word, Mr. Dr. Zlatko Lagundžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9373	For the sake of correctness, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of correctness and magnetograms of this session, this will nevertheless remain recorded. So, it is not true to Mr Džaferović that my goal is to solve something either on my or on another proposal, my goal is to get things settled, that is one thing, the other I have already made it clear that, saying that I support your proposal for a conclusion, with one clear claim that is not disputed, you can see that your proposal for a conclusion is nothing more than a point of the 1st resolution, which is 3 months old, and which is here at the parliamentary procedure and which you as chairman have managed to prolong it here in 3 months, but it is at the end before us. And the one thing I answered the most for. You said quote you "I'm sorry for how I think," this is really after you're sorry for what I'm saying, and now you've become sorry and how I think, congratulations. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9374	I thank Dr Lagundžija, here's the quote again, Mr. Džaferović, but I would like to ask you to discuss the essence of me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9375	Of course, Mr. Lagundžija, I'm sorry and I have the right to feel that way unless you think we should feel the way you think we should. That's already your problem isn't my problem. I will, by the way, always try to make you feel and say what you think and I will fight for it your right, but of course whenever I have the opposite attitude, I will clearly express it and that is my principle when it comes to democratic dialogue and when otherwise democratic principles are at stake, not a hunch that you are trying to put forward for this speaker with a variety of eclibrists and present. I went out of course not because of what I just said, I just said this on the way, because it's not worth it, talking about these things, but you again, in your own style, brought out a lie, Mr. Lagundžija, and I have to react to it. You said that I, as chairman, had prevented or prevented your resolution from coming on the agenda for 3 months. I would ask you to, in future, give qualifications to my actions to then obtain facts and to speak on the basis of facts rather than on the basis of what you want to present to the public. I have already explained once that the resolution went to the Commission and then go ahead, address the Commission why the resolution was not adopted until today, after your intervention at Parliament, a conclusion was adopted which I voted for and on which the Administrative Commission was informed afterwards. Therefore, it is completely untrue that Šefik Džaferović has done anything to extend the debate on your resolution for one second. I repeat, what I was saying about this speaker, what I was saying earlier, I'm already applying it in practice, and there's nothing questionable about it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9376	I thank my colleague Džaferović, who continues to answer the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Is there anyone else who wants to talk? No, I would like to make a statement to the Commission's proposal with its conclusions. Who is in favour of supporting the Commission's conclusions? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen of the 36 present voted 28 against 2.6 abstentions. We have to be subjective. Who is from the Federation to support the Commission's views? 112 Thank you very much. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ladies and gentlemen, the Federation of Support for Commission Opinions voted 18 MPs. From Republika Srpska 11. I find that the Commission's views and the Commission's conclusions have been accepted. We are now pleading on the conclusion of Mr. Vice-President, the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Šefik Džaferović. The presidency of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires the administrative committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to put aside their decision immediately: 01/7, 02/3-011-509/03 of 09.04.2003. It is up to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's accounting to pay lawmakers from 01.05.2003, on the basis of a decision that was in force prior to the adoption of the disputed Decision of 09.04.2003. Who is the conclusion of Mr. Šefik Džaferović? Thank you, who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen of the 37 present, 10 voted for, against 22, abstention 5.. I konstatuj that this conclusion has not been reached by the majority and there is no need for an entity statement. We're going to the 16th point, I'm sorry for the 3rd agenda, and she was at the first session of the 16th, that's Ad.3. The motion for a resolution on the temporary suspension of the increase in the remuneration of elected MPs in the executive and legislative power and repealing earlier decisions contrary to the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions budget for 2003 (mandator: MP Zlatko Lagundžija) appreciates whether the applicant of the resolution should explain it. Here, with my wish to inform you, we have heard the position of this resolution and you have received it in written form, the committee responsible, here are the doctors of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9377	I will, in any case, be ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected presidency, shorter than this is worth, given that we have already spoken a lot, but I am obliged for the public to repeat some things and to systematicize them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and in line with the information that would have full insight into what is before us. Let me remind you that the resolution of the submission in 27.06 is an uncompromising reaction to what we had under the previous agenda, but was firstly adopted in order to avoid exactly possible misunderstandings over Parliament's jurisdiction or the competent commission. I repeat once again that under Article 121(2), the Parliamentary Assembly is, by putting out and adopting the resolution and thus adopting it, its position on political issues, as the social problems and needs say and sets out guidelines to be implemented by the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament as well as other institutions. This resolution was forwarded to the competent commission by the decision of this House, it took a month to determine which committee was responsible and then on 7 August it was found that this was going to the Administrative Commission and not to the Finance and Budget Commission as one of the variants, 9 September the Commission had its first session and on that committee I must admit that the debate was extremely constructive and that at that session and the Commission that some of the positions defined in the initial motion for a resolution, that I had respected and that we had further specified certain things. We had a new meeting, so, after 2 September, 9 September of the Commission meeting, at which at the end of the 5 members of the Commission, 2 members of the Commission accepted such a resolution, 2 were against and 1 was abstention, and I would like to say about which points were not slow. In fact, there was a conditional agreement of a number of people who felt that this point 1 did not oblige Parliament to return salaries to the level from before the increase was initiated. On point 3 and point 2, a practical agreement has been reached, namely the initial proposal of point 2. Some members of the Commission rightly warned that it can be read as not allowing Parliament to receive people from newly formed institutions, and that this would avoid point 2 is formulated in the form that you now have in front of you. Namely, all institutions have been called on to suspend and cancel a working relationship that is not covered by the budget other than those established after the adoption of the budget, as it was said in the resolution that they would also be covered by the budget rebalancing. About point 3, we agreed, even there was a consensus at one point in the Commission about point 3 unless I was wrong. In point 4, it has caused the most reaction and you can note that the initial proposal of point 4 has been amended thanks to the suggestions and amendments made by some of the Members of Parliament and of the Commission. In fact, point 4. does not really say anything other than point 1. that instead of talking about the coefficients and salaries and we are practically making ourselves or other confusion, point 1. and point 4. does not mean anything other than that receiving MPs and receiving ministers, members of the Presidency comply, because, according to the existing Decision, which has been applied, which has caused this whole dispute, Members of Parliament have some 500 marks of higher income in terms of flats and personal income than ministers, so that those who work professionally here should be controlled by ministers, 114 it is not disputed, however, their receipts amount to more than one average personal income in Bosnia and Herzegovina than they are receiving, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We can now call it harmonising the coefficients, in one way or another, but objectively MPs have put themselves in a position to have wages, income, wages and coefficients, wages and fees higher than the salary of the chairman of the Council of Ministers or members of the Presidency for some more than, I repeat more than the average personal income in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank the people who gave me suggestions and remarks on the resolution. A large number of these remarks have been incorporated, thanks to colleagues from the Administrative Commission, colleagues Križanović and Džaferović who gave full support in the work of the Commission, who contributed as well as others but who contributed to the way this text looks and I thank them for that, regardless of the fate of this resolution. And I end up with what's the old reason for this resolution. The real reason for this resolution is the economic situation in which the country is located, the real reason for such a resolution is not only to return to Parliament's pay to a normal level but the real reason for this and the resolution that you can see in point 5, which is that Parliament's decision practically initiates one process of introducing order in entity, cantonal, municipal and other levels of administration that have seen our decision as calling for them to change, also increasing their salaries. This is not going to be able to withstand the budget either, this is perfectly clear, but it is that we have all agreed here and even supported by the High Representative who talked about it, that public consumption with 2/3 of the social product as much as we now need in a reasonable period of consciousness to 2/5 of the social product, and in this way unfortunately this trend is increasing and in the extreme case the situation in the Federation 16%, in Republika Srpska 25% of the population lives below the world-wide poverty line, in a situation where 25% of the employees live in fear that in 3 months they will be jobless, in a situation where the imbalance is greater than 30% in the last period, last year in the same period, in which industrial production is somewhere at 40% of industrial production since before the war, in which Bosnia and Herzegovina has a social product that has 50% lower than the social product per capita of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has five years ago. In such a situation, I believe this resolution is more than necessary. And in the end, since Mr. Džaferović, whom I thanked twice, pointed out that he was already acting in line with this conclusion. Mr. Džaferović, I can tell you that many of us are doing it here, in order to be very precise because you insist on it, I have paid my parliamentary income for September as a citizen for the Memorial home in Srebrenica's Victims Potocide, but that is no reason for me to support or not support this resolution, put it or not. It is that we do not need to highlight our personal example as something that will later enable us to avoid becoming a broader example. 115 There I expect and once again I thank those who have given amendments to this resolution. I don't consciously mention the MPs to the person so that he doesn't put them in an awkward position, because I don't know how he's going to vote after all this, but I thank you all, for not giving you the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9378	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumists on an explanation. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who's to be. I don't know the story of amendments. The amendments must first be declared. Does Munib Jusufović stay with the amendments? You have the Commission's position not to accept the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9379	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9380	So you're pulling back. There are no amendments. Okay. Thank you. It can pass. We're voting on a resolution. Who's for the resolution, the text of the resolution offered? Who's against the proposed text of the resolution? Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention. Please, let's do it again. I beg you at the count and please at the plea. If it's necessary, I'll count it myself and it's not disputed, but I'm begging you who's for it, so let's do it again. Who's to adopt this resolution? And please don't bother counting 40. Well, come on. Who's against it? Please let us vote. Wrong chart. Yes, it is. I see one abstention, you see 13. I see one abstention, the counters see 13. That'll work for us. Thank you. Of the 32 docks, for it was 9, against 21, abstention 2. So there's no half-breed. There's no need for an entity vote. I find this resolution not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest a 15-minute break and we'll proceed. To freshen up a bit. 116 We're moving to the fourth item of the Ad agenda. [[PAUZA]] 4. Consideration of the SDP Members' Club's initiative to form a Committee on the Marking of the 60th anniversary of the maintenance of the ZALNOBiH Members, you have received the SDP's initiative to mark the 60th anniversary of the 1st SDP meeting. It is my duty to inform you that the extended College discussed this initiative on two occasions. First time on June 16th at the 12th session of the Extended College. The contrasted views of the representatives of the clubs were then expressed and the statement was postponed. The second time this initiative was held at the 14th session of the Extended College on 6 August this year when the vote was held. That's when the extended college didn't have the consent. In Article 21(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The home's rules of procedure have been prescribed that the Extended College will seek to adopt decisions by consensus. If there is no consensus, the decision will be adopted by the College of the House, also by consensus as prescribed by Article 20(2). Rules of Procedure. If the House College tries to reach a consensus, the decision is made by the House. The College therefore included this initiative in the agenda of the House. In that sense, I am opening a debate on this initiative. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9381	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I will not use the time to explain this initiative to me by the Rules of Procedure. I will not do this because I respect you both as colleagues and I am aware that I can say very little about this initiative, which is not very well known to you. However, allow only a few reminders. The ZAVNOBiH meeting is the historic date and event for the citizens and peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina since the disappearance of medieval Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is certainly the biggest event in our history that has determined our present and future. ZAVNOBiH's decisions have restored and established the statehood of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the equality of its peoples and citizens. The fundamental position of ZAVNOBiH on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I quote it is neither Serbian nor Croatian and Muslim, but also Serbian and Muslim and Croatian, which will ensure full equality and equality between Srbin, Hvata and musliman, has been hit by the foundations and a certain character of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood as a federal state in the former Yugoslavia. 117 This fact has ensured the acquisition of Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence and independence, which could continue its legal existence under international law as a state within the existing internationally recognised borders. This position is also contained in point 1 of Article 1. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the current Constitution. So I've also symbolized the boab of democratic forces in breaking fascism and fortifying patriots for restoring statehood. In this battle, the expression of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ZAVNOBiH nations made huge sacrifices and a significant contribution to the world coalition in the fight against fascism. Unfortunately, fascism has not yet been defeated, and that is why a reminder is needed, especially young people, of all the destruction he can cause. This is why we propose that this House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina make a decision on the establishment of a Committee on the Marking of the 60th anniversary of ZAVNOBiH, and that this date and event be marked at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the patronage and direct engagement of the authorities and other political and civil organisations. We believe that this would be a good message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that this home as a true representative of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is truly and clearly determined by the fundamental principles of both the current and future character of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9382	I thank Mr. Križanović. Who's moving on? Mr. Jovanović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9383	Mr. Chairman, I have at the Office of the Assembly, that is, those people who are responsible for the distribution of material obtained by MPs. I don't think we MPs should be getting any material that contains party symbols. If in the future it means we accept that this is how it should be, then I suggest that all MPs who propose something means that they have the symbols of their parties here. Because here in this material means this first leaf is excess. So what's on the first one, he's standing on the second. So this rose sign here is too large and to agree on whether or not to accept this in the future, or if MPs suggest that in the future they deliver the symbols of their parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9384	I thank my colleague Jovanović. I agree that the initiative to get something into Parliament should be working on the hats of MPs and perhaps this is an observation that is in place. It's usually due to be taken care of, but I think it was then an initiative that was accepted. I've spoken to the College and I don't see that today it should interfere with the course of our plea and debate. 118 I agree that in future services they have to keep an eye on and otherwise it leads us into doubt when we get such materials we have to put them on the College. I have to tell you, we often don't have the same vision of such initiatives, but here's the suggestion. I think Mr. Jovanović that you are absolutely right and it is my suggestion to the club presidents that we are taking care of this, otherwise in the future we will not take initiatives into consideration. Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9385	Let me say on behalf of the SDA Club that we really have nothing to say about this subject. I don't think there's anyone who doesn't know the meaning of ZANOBiH and who wouldn't have reason to support this initiative. So I'm not wasting my time on the club's behalf giving full support to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9386	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9387	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I won't talk much about this either. But I would like to say from here that perhaps in some way a prejudication and definition, or date of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood, is being prejudged. We have significant dates in Bosnia and Herzegovina's history. I appreciate that our commission in charge of drawing up the State Holidays Act should be considered and proposed to this Parliament and set that date. As far as statehood is concerned. As for the very event where it is highlighted, especially the fight against fascism, I am also in favour of giving overall support to the fight against all kinds of fascism from anyone coming. And of that fascism which was committed, which was committed by those who were in whose name, or those who were, who were here, or who were in charge of this meeting. Unfortunately, our history has been such that a large number of people have been killed by almost all peoples, especially Hrvat since '45. in here, everyone's silent about. Isn't that fascism? I therefore propose and give one initiative to form a commission to investigate these crimes against the Croatian people and other peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that has been committed since '45. until the end of the war, through all the tapes that went through to the day today. I say, I support the initiative to fight against all forms of fascism, and not only those mentioned here, which is marked by this date, and I suggest that the Commission for the Making of State Holidays finally come out with a law that will propose to us a date that would mark as the day of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9388	I thank Mr. Andrić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Duraković. Here you go. Durakovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9389	I will first of all express my personal position I believe the Party's position on BiH. I support this initiative to mark ZAVNOBiH's 60th anniversary because I appreciate that it is still the most significant date in history, the modern history of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to explain. I wouldn't confuse the word fascism, it was an anti-fascist world anti-fascist, European anti-fascist fight and I wouldn't mix it with a domestic fascism which, of course, was and still has one. And we, to what the whole world is proud, the whole world, the democratic world is from Britain, through America, so whether France or Russia is, etc. Looks like we're ashamed of her. It was not uncommon to be in that coalition to fight Hitlerism, nasifashism, etc. But in the end there is in Mrkonjic City or Vakuf...the born state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as they are, as you would like to see it today. And I really wouldn't be messing with those pears and apples. It is not done when this anti-fascist dimension is highlighted, it is meant by the European and the world's anti-fascist coalition, and not by these or those, and by the counting of the countries, I think it has nothing to do with ZAVNOBiH. And I plead with you, in fact, all MPs, as you wish here today, we have sworn here that we will defend the sovereign, the whole and the like and the like of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it was born in '43. On November 25th in Mrkonjic City, and therefore I would like to support this proposal with a hearty support and to create one committee to mark the most important date in Bosnia and Herzegovina's modern history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9390	I thank Dr. Lagumji. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered for his word. Excuse me, Mr. Duraković. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, it wasn't intentional. Don't be angry, Nijaz. I made a mistake with both the name and the person.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9391	My colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9392	I'm begging you just a little bit, Mr. Ćeman answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9393	So, colleagues and colleagues, Mrs Palavrić said on behalf of the SDA Club our position on this initiative that we as a club support. 120 I have come out, of course supporting one such attitude and all those who have said that this significant date should be marked, just to say one personal thought and therefore to potential it not only through the club's position, but also my personal attitude. In fact, it is high time that in this country in this country, the historical vertical events of what is indisputable are not forgotten and separated from the regimes of political furniture, from this or that in power, etc. The need to respect the fact that there are stone interfaces in which this belongs, which do not need to be hugged which non-stop should be kept fresher. Therefore, no matter how much anyone for these or those reasons may have objections to the past decades, this is beyond suspicion, not to repeat the word of other colleagues an extremely significant date, and that is why it is not always to start over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9394	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić has come forward for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9395	My fellow Members and fellow Members, the esteemed guests, I really appreciate the initiative, especially these SDP members' clubs, when it comes to marking the 60th anniversary of the maintenance of ZAVNOBiH. But what I want to say when it comes to our closer and further past, therefore by not questioning this date, so by not questioning this date, it is that I would like the MPs in the state parliament to overcome the willingness to adopt the State Holidays Act, which will be freely celebrated on every inch of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I regret that the attempts on which I worked have produced fruit only in one home, and they are not in another home and that it has given others the right to define national holidays as I see them. It's my only reserve and my revolt to make us here responsible for defining, to get to the State Holidays Act. In that sense, I also find this initiative welcome on that path. So I'd like to just get the right idea. Nothing against the date. I appreciate that MPs are working on such initiatives, but I'd like to warmly support the fact that we're working on law-making. That's why I won't support this initiative, because it gives, tracks some other roads, some other opportunities and a flabby style that different levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina are fostering. So I warmly support working on the State Holidays Act, and I will make a contribution to the proposal that passed in the last term. I don't argue that this date is also on the holiday list. So I don't slow it down either. But it must be a matter of our agreement and consensus within this state. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who's to support the initiative. 121 A Mr. Križanović please. I didn't see it, and I'd like you to consult with the party president in time. I'm sorry I didn't say that to replicate. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9396	I didn't even hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9397	It's good that sometimes MPs don't hear. It's not always good, but sometimes it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9398	So, I want to say right away that I wouldn't want to poliminate with any of those colleagues who talked about this initiative. I would like to say something about my colleague Jovanović's remarks on the paper on which this initiative was presented. I do not know that in our Rules of Procedure there is any obstacle to the representatives, the clubs of the representatives of their initiative, their draft laws or anything in the accompanying act of delivery to the party's memorandum, which is the parliamentary party here in Parliament. And please don't make any mistake, down in the fus note, at the foot of this accompanying memo stands the club of MPs. So there's nothing wrong with that, and I think that, Mr. Chairman, your conclusion is excitable that this should not happen in the future. I think we should talk about it at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9399	I thank my colleague Križanović. For a word, the replica was sought by Mr. Jovanović. Here you go. Well, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9400	Here, I think I made myself clear. I really don't mind, but I will tomorrow, so when I propose something to be a symbol, it means my party, that we agree on it as a conclusion. So if it means everyone, then we're going to be delivering symbols to all the parties, not just with the rose, I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9401	The word's been answered by a gentleman. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9402	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9403	Ivo Miro Jović. I'm asking you, I don't think it was tendious on either side that you couldn't, but since you're bringing materials through clubs, it's logical. I have nothing against roses or symbols of any party. But let's even the standards. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9404	I thank you. I'd hurry up with a few sentences just to say the following. On the question of antifascism and the fight against fascism who has the right or who follows such ideas, I must say and I want to say to myself that I am immediately on that trail. I'm happy too, so let's have a little fun at this point which would be 25. The 11th fine Catholics who celebrate St. kat so nice for one holiday, and we know the last queen was Katarina, so it's no accident, I think it's even intentional. And that's not bad. But World War I ended, so by chance or not, I am a historian, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly was held, no different than the name of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and associated with others and so is only under what circumstances and what different associations of the Slovenac, Hrvat, Srbin, Croats, Hrvat and Slovenac were made. And I think that question right about dates is kind of a problem where we have to, and we need to move quickly and get to the point of view that we all feel together. I've already, I've said myself personally when I asked a question for or against fascism, so I guess I'm not so retrograded, I don't look so weird. I misiti you'd be a vampire if you said I was for fascist ideology. And certainly I am that in this country I need to guard and cherish the treatments of anti-fascist combat. Certainly what my colleague, the distinguished representative Andrić said about the crimes that took place in the name of another ideology, are now ideologies that oppose one another, but I support the anti-fascist struggle that is being built here uncontested, Bosnia and Herzegovina can enter a circle of countries that fought on that side. But I repeat again, divisions begin the moment we speak of what is all of us together. Do you start with Kulin Ban and his command, and on the first day, here's an international act. Of course she could have made it a state, and that's the day we should. Is that the day of signing in the United Nations the recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina's modern history, is that the day? But I have to say one negative sentence, because I don't see how to say that negative charge sometimes in the face of events. I am not because someone would drag me into my wallet of personal nature money and give it to Mrkonjic City for rebuilding the home of ZAVENOBiH from the Federation without participating in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the same time. I'm against it and that kind of work. I am that the work is progressing, but to be content with it. This time a million left the Federation, by someone's decision, mine didn't, I must say, no one in the order of the Croatian people participated, which doesn't mean they wouldn't single out the funds. But that's not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9405	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9406	It seems to me appropriate to engage in this debate concerning the memorandum under which any, including this initiative, have been submitted. In the first wave, I didn't realize the need to look back on it, but it still seems to be worth the attention. Of course, any party that participates in this House and all parties at all have the right and perhaps the obligation to establish some signs of differentiation in relation to others and we all practice it and it is not disputed. I, however, am experiencing the work of Members' clubs to say so as the functioning and operation of this Parliament, a kind of form in which Parliament acts in the same way as it does through its working bodies of the Commission, etc. And MP clubs, party clubs, party clubs of MPs are, in fact, conditionally speaking to Parliament's working bodies, that is, this home. In that sense, it is probably logical to think, if for no other reason than to address each other under that joint venture, and here if it is necessary to present my position, I am closer, or absolutely to it with Parliament and clubs and everyone communicates under the company of this house, this house. And this is the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we went one step further, it would be good, here comes the idea of telling all of us MPs, so maybe it's a little bit more cost, a memorandum was made on which we can and our writing initiatives, etc. as MPs to deliver to everyone to whom this applies, to the memorandum of this house. Because the MP is also, in a way, an institution operating under a firm called the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So don't argue with the right, and it's certain that even the colleagues in the SDP haven't thought about this to a great extent, but that this is how they talk, but if they do, and if the issue is open, I think thinking about what I'm talking about would be the only co-existent solution. But let someone deal with it, maybe we should come to some conclusion of that kind, if we have to or maybe in the Rules of Procedure that we're working on to do something like that. I really think it would make sense, and when we do, this is what I'm going to end up not only as Members' clubs, but also as MPs, why don't we have some memorandum in which we will, when the official MP speaks from whom he will already be seen from that paper, that he is the institution of Parliament, but also the one who is a member of that Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9407	I thank Mr. Ćeman. I'd like to ask if we're just talking about the essence of the resolution, it's not a memo, it's not a rose that's going to harm this document. Come on, please. So we're talking about the essence, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9408	The Honorable Chairman, once again to agree, here whatever is adopted by the SDP is the SDP's Club of MPs will honor what we agree on. The second thing, we wrote on that memo, the services could type it up, the SDP MPs to avoid that part, according to whatever we agree on. But here, it's not about the way you sign up, it's about the declaration. Right away, the SDP is for the adoption of the State Holidays Act and we will support it all by force as all other clubs will support that part. Here is a factual statement of support to form a committee to celebrate ZAVNOBiH that does not enter financial or other, you understand the methods of whether anyone has singled out the funds, but to mark it as one of the dates I would say the statehood of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What doesn't slow down when the State Holidays Act comes that we will adopt, if you say since the birth of that and that, if we have a quorum. So please let us vote here for the declaration, that is, this initiative. If it passes, we would be glad to think it is one of, as Mr Duraković said since the newer date of Bosnia and Herzegovina's history. I say don't slow down, but not in any part of that part of this issue of other dates, and we advocate to put it here at the next session, if this parliament needs the national holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So please don't let us get into this stuff. Everything we agree on will be respected, but until that moment, we've made it an initiative. So consider it a deal, if you agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9409	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this initiative on the stand. Who's to support the SDP MPs' initiative? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen of the 35 present voted 20 against 13, abstention 2. We've got most of it. We're going after the entities. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ladies and gentlemen, from Federation 19 to Republika Srpska 1 for. So we don't have an entity majority. We're going to get a match. Ladies and gentlemen of the College, you've seen and you've seen three different attitudes, one in, one in abstention, one against. 125 we have not reached agreement. Let's go out in the second round. Who's against the Federation? Yeah, let's go in the second round against it. Who's against Republika Srpska? Ladies and gentlemen of the Federation were two against, from the Republic of Srspka 11 against. I find that this resolution, that this initiative is not supported. We move to the final point of today's sequel below five Ads. 5. Decision to declare the permanent meeting of the House of Representatives You know that this initiative was launched by Mr Milorad Živković, he is justifiably absent today because he is outside Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of an emergency delegation. Of course, he didn't explain his idea. I will say on behalf of the SNSD that I think it makes sense for this parliament to declare a permanent session, especially in the face of reforms and the defence system and the integration of intelligence services and reforms of the customs, tax system and a series of other, budget rebalancing. There will sometimes be an opportunity for us to meet only about one item of the agenda and I think that this initiative is special, given the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and should not be explained. We're usually in a permanent session, only we've never declared it because we're planning a plenary statement the moment there's enough agenda points. In that sense, I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Džaferović is answering for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9410	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should support this initiative and declare the formal permanent session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, we have managed to actually get through parliamentary procedure, respecting the deadlines prescribed by the acts governing our work, digesting or trafficing or pushing everything that has arrived in this Parliament, and it is mature with today's and tomorrow's decision-making day. So in some ways we are already in a permanent session, but I think it is necessary to bring it, I think we also need to bring this formal act that should be a clear message, 126, first of all, to the MPs. So, first and foremost, to the MPs and our commissions that every day and at all times during the day, they must also be available to the needs of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am not talking here about the effects of the messages sent to the public by such a decision, but about us who are in charge of doing what we do in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9411	I thank the deputy chairman, Mr. Džaferović. Who's next to the word? Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, I think Momčilo Novaković, and Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9412	I thank the esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I assume that you share one feeling as MPs of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state parliament, reading the press and listening to the media, law-making procedures and how the debate on certain key segments of reforms taking place in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to remind you that the reform in the area of the tax system, i.e. the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Direct Taxation, the reform in the defence system, or the Law on Defence, the regulation of military and other issues, is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also have reforms in the field of intelligence services, etc., and the procedures that have been common lately for us to have committees headed by the parties appointed by the High Representative to deliver proposals or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but in the procedure they first communicate with the parties, or representatives of the people, and then reportedly later they will come into the regular procedure of the executive authorities, or eventually to Parliament to adopt or not adopt it by an urgent procedure. I wish to support the proposal for Parliament to be in a permanent session for several reasons. The first thing I think is that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in such a state, that we are in such a state of economic and political and any other aspect, ahead of such reforms that require a truly permanent session of the Parliamentary Assembly. But I would like to draw attention to the following, that all these key issues, the reform directions around which we have daily media reporting that one party refuses or accepts reform in certain areas is the place to decide on such issues right here in this House. And I therefore recommend that both colleges chairors, i.e. members of the colleges of both parliaments, and together with my colleagues from the House of Peoples, call on the session urgently, perhaps both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with representatives of the Council of Ministers and establish a way to discuss key reforms in this country. Secondly, I would like to remind you that, I assume all MPs have had the opportunity to see the Council of Ministers' Action Plan, then the Council of Ministers' Work Programme. Here, 127 times we had the opportunity to hear the international community's representatives led by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who, along the way, reminded you of the key responsibility for the situation and future of Bosnia and Herzegovina has just located at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it is the calls for this House to the state parliament to adopt reform policies, laws, decisions as soon as possible, etc., and that we have not opened another debate on all these key reform documents. I therefore propose that action plans on emergency reforms, the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, etc. be on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly as soon as possible. And next. Third proposal. We have had the opportunity on several occasions to adopt out of the talks and representatives that executives at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the legislative authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, our commitment to European integration, the fulfilment of obligations to the Council of Europe, has fuelled the commitment to membership in some international associations, multilateral organisations, and that members of this Parliament do not know exactly what that means, or what assumptions or advances this country needs to do to become, achieve one such goal. I therefore propose that, together with the executive body, the College of the Two Houses of the State determine the plan of activities in the realisation of such commitment. First of all, I am thinking of European commitment, which is our obligation to come to an appropriate stage to negotiate membership or to apply for EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9413	Thank you, Dr. President. Hadžiahmetović. The word came from Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9414	Dear colleagues, before I vote, I have one specific question. Does our decision on a permanent session continue to mean that deadlines for MPs to receive material before the session stand or not? In fact, I am in favour of making this decision as an expression of our responsibility to the jobs that await us. We are most of us here professionally as MPs, and it is perfectly normal that at any moment we should respond to the obligations set before us, therefore, by the College and this assembly here and other bodies. But I am also of absolute respect for the rights of the MPs so that the materials can be studied, that these materials are prepared and that they make a decision here in such a way. In that sense, therefore, if it is understood that the business meaning is not changed within the deadlines, then I am and I will vote therefore very gladly for Parliament to be in a permanent session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9415	I thank Mr. Novaković. 128 I would like to say that, therefore, this decision will be made in accordance with our rules of procedure with full respect for the Rules of Procedure, and I do not think it has occurred to anyone to make a decision delegating the Rules of Procedure, but rather makes the work of this Parliament more effective. Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9416	I want to say first that I also express our club's readiness
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9417	I'm asking you a little patience just to show
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9418	respecting the obligations, or position of Parliament, to intensify the work of this House. I believe I don't know what that constant session means, I don't know how to treat it, but I'd stand up for the next one, actually. 80% of our representatives here are working professionally in the Assembly. Therefore, if we need to draw some conclusions, then we could conclude that we are ready to step up our work and respect our rules of procedure, ensure certain procedures prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and intensify our work. I don't know what a constant session means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9419	I thank my colleague Križanović. The word came from Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9420	I'll look around and say I think I know what a constant session means, but I'm not going to explain it here. What we least have to do, we can't allow a full-time session to meet once a month or half a month. So the constant session is that as soon as we have one law ready in the business procedure to decide on it, not that we have 10, 15 and 20 laws for one session, so let's hurry up this afternoon, after we're exhausted on the agenda. And I'm giving full support and demand and I suggested it myself and supported it when the High Representative said that we would declare a permanent session and that we would meet really more often and if we were to take one law every day, but to give him full attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-10-0.u9421	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. I dare to help here, the constant session for people to work every day by parliamentary committees, and how many times we're going to have a plenary session that's a matter of agreeing when we prepare the materials, but we have to prepare daily to have a plenary session once or twice, three times, five times. So, if necessary, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone else to answer for? He's not answering. I am concluding the debate and putting this initiative on the line for Mr. Živković. Who's to make a decision about a permanent session? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? So I find that this initiative has been adopted with two abstentions and none against. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the 18th regular session. Members of the Finance and Budget Committee shall be informed that we will have a session of the Commission at the end of the meeting immediately after the end of this meeting. The session was completed at 13:30.
