ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u583	Okay. Dear envoys, delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and I welcome you all to the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the session there are 13 envoys who need the majority, and Mr. Ilija Filipović justified his absence, Mr. Vinko Radovanović is officially away, on the official road. So we have a qualified majority and we can work and make valid decisions. For the 7th session, I propose the following agenda: 1. Envoying Questions and Answers, 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 6th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Declaration by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Equality and Gender Equality in BiH, 4. Declaration by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Features of BiH, 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the sealing of BiH institutions, as referred to in Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations - Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 6. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Second Reading, 8. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 9. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's duties on 30.6.2002, 10. Business report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Financial Audit Office 2002, 2 11. Report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office on the Financial Management of 2001: (a) Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, (b) BiH Presidency, (c) the Council of Ministers of BiH, (d) the Ministry of Treasury of BiH, (e) the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (f) the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, (d) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (h) the Ministry of European Integration, (i) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, (j) the Constitutional Court of BiH, (k) the State Border Service of BiH, (l) the Office for Civil Aviation of BiH, (m) the Archives of BiH, (n) the Institute for Accreditation of BiH, (p) the Office for Veterinary Affairs of BiH, (p) the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments of BiH, q) the Agency for Statistics of BiH, (r) the Regulatory Agency for Communications, (f) the Institute for Standards and Monitoring of BiH, t) the BiH Institute for Common Affairs of BiH institutions, 12. Financial Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2002, 13. Consultations on the election of judges from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, 14. Request of the Council of Ministers for Correction of Technical Error in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratifying the Open Sky Treaty – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 16. Giving consent to ratifying the addition of the Montreal Protocol on Matters that damage the ozone layer, London, 29 June 1990 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 17. Giving consent to ratify the amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that damage the ozone layer, Hagen Kopen, 25th November 1992 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 18th Giving consent to ratify the amendment to the Montreal Protocol adopted at the ninth meeting of the parties, Montreal on 17 September 1997 - Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between BiH and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and protection of investments – the proposed BiH Presidency, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the navigation regime – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 3 22. Giving consent to ratifying the BiH-Ukraine decision proposal on improving and reciprocal investment protection – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 23. Giving consent to ratifying the trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of India – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 24. Giving consent to ratifying the trade agreement between BiH and Ukraine – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 25. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a debt consolidation decision at the Paris Club between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Japan – the BiH presidency's proposal. Here's a suggestion. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering for a debate on the agenda? Nobody's answering. If there are no interested agendas, I shall consider adopted and vote on it in accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So who's on the agenda like this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposed agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. Envoying questions and answers The answers to the questions asked were received by Mr Tomislav Limov and Mr Hasan Čengić and Mr Zoran Spasojević. Are the envoys satisfied with the answers? Mr. Spasojević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u584	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, as far as this response is concerned, this is correctly written, that there is no way to find the possibility that these patterns I asked for for this gentleman who unfortunately died, Kalajdžić Mladjana, are Mlađena found. But I suggest that I didn't essentially mean that people tried to sort of respond, but they didn't have the opportunity. I suggest since this is the lady who is the wife of this late Kalajdžić Mlađen to find her some possibility to find her, or to find some way to pay her with this expert training that everyone else had at that center where she worked, or to find someone comparable to another center in the sense that she was given some kind of possibility that she could exercise her rights. So people tried, but this is the answer she had on her own. So there's no way to get rid of it in any other way. 4 And I suggest that this pay that this gentleman has done in the period of '85. Until '91. She finds a parallel with that other school, with that professional training or at that school with, that she might try to please this lady in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u585	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Limov wants to. Mr. Limov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u586	Dear Mr. President and Vice-Presidents, fellow envoys, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished guests, representatives of public information and professional services, ladies and gentlemen, I asked two questions at our third session held on 25 February this year by Justice Minister Slobodan Kovač. 1. What are the fundamental characteristics of the situation and relations in the criminal establishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 2. What is the real truth about the state of the Zenica Penalty in light of the recent rebellion and the circumstances of the alleged Islamization of certain Roman Catholic convicts? The answer to my questions was identified by the Council of Ministers in 29.4.2003. So 63 days after the questions were asked. Since it has already become a practice of non-compliance with business deadlines, I will draw attention to Article 121(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People by which, I quote, the reply must be delivered in writing within 15 days. Extraordinary may be required to extend the deadline for the next 10 days, quote completed. Therefore, the maximum deadline is 25 days. If such a practice continues, we are left with the envoys to comply with Article 121, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure are asked by the College to include questions to which we are looking for answers in the agenda of the next House sessions. As far as the answers to questions are concerned, I must say that despite respecting my efforts, I am not and cannot be satisfied. Namely, my first question referred to fundamental characteristics and relations in the criminal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I stand out in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The answer is incomplete and there is no rating of even the situation in the Federation's institutions and institutions in Republika Srpska are not mentioned. Meanwhile, there has been a new insurrection of prisoners, but this time in a bridge penitentiary. Were the measures taken against the rebels at the Zenica Penal Institute stimulating the spread of a kind of prison revolution? In a series of obligations facing Bosnia and Herzegovina on its path to europeanisation and compliance with the prescribed standards in criminal institutions with respect to 5 human rights of prisoners, spatial conditions, number of prisoners, quality of accommodation, nutrition, infrastructure, etc. What is the situation in the criminal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what must be done to ensure that European standards and international conventions are respected in these institutions? Is the situation in criminal institutions the same in the territory of the Federation and Republika Srpska, and if it is not what the differences are seen in? These are my two following questions, because I am not satisfied with the answer to the previously quoted questions. I ask the Minister of Justice to answer these questions specifically in writing so that his answer to the questions asked earlier is complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u587	Thank you, Mr. Limov. We took a question. Mr. Zno has one obligation. You can be free. Try to get back as soon as you can. Mr. Hasan Čengić, you are pleased with the answer. Okay. Here we are, Mr. Goran Milojević wants to ask a delegate question. Mr. Gorane, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u588	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, dear guests, on the basis of Articles 118 and 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit the following delegation question: Article 3(2)c) The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is governed by the following – entities will meet all the conditions for legal certainty and protection of persons under their jurisdiction, the maintenance of civil institutions for the application of legal provisions that will operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards, respecting internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms under Article 2 of this Constitution, as well as the taking of other appropriate measures. Since Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities are obliged to adhere to those conventions and since the current situation of the human rights of the returnees in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all citizens who have exercised their pension rights in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is assessed by the House of Human Rights by discrimination on the basis of Article 122 of the Federation of BiH. I ask the Rules of Procedure of the People's House for the Government of the Federation of BiH to answer my next delegate question in writing: 6.1. What was done by the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH on the implementation of the House of Human Rights which ordered the Federation by 10 July 2003 at the latest to stop discrimination against the pensioners of returnees in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. all citizens who have obtained their right to retire to pensions in the field of the Federation and provide them with basic human rights – legally retired, the right to timely treatment and health care, and will the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina begin with the implementation of the mentioned decision of the Human Rights House within that period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u589	I thank Mr. Milojević. Who wants to hear from you next? Mr. Spasojević. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u590	Well, here's what I want to ask a question that's a little delicate and it's about me. I received a letter from the Election Commission, and Mr. Jukić also received the memo from Mr. Šefik Džaferović, chairman of the House of Representatives. It is clear in the Electoral Law that one person, or one individual, can perform at the same time two public indirect or directly elected duties. Since Mr. Paravac left for the House of Representatives, so he went on second duty that place was vacant, at the place of Mr. Paravac I should come as the elected MP. But I already have a mandate here at the House of Peoples and now the Election Commission, although by law I need her to verify my mandate, she's asking for your opinion. I don't know if he's asking you as a person, as the chairman of the House of Peoples, or if he's asking this home for the opinion that we still plead it. I don't know what to say if the law allows these two functions to be performed at the same time. Well, here's what I suggest, Mr. Jukić, since it came to your name for you to take it out a little bit or bring it to the House or you to solve it yourself so that it can be resolved once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u591	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Here I am informed that the memo mentioned came yesterday at the end of my work hours, so I have really not even studied it yet, and of course we will do as our colleague Spasojević asks, and after we study the memo we will certainly act in such a way as not to be whose rights, especially our colleagues, are being denied and what happens to us will be done. Thank you. Mr. brkati. Here you go, Mr. Noose. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u592	Mr. Chairman, I've asked two questions and I haven't received an answer, and one of my underlines is that the deadlines that Mr. Limov was talking about were just a moment ago from Article 121(3) that I'm not quoting again. Because Mr Dragan Čović, a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, did not answer me within a certain period. It's been 15 days. It's been 25 days. I will again seek to be very correct I will not insist that we put that issue on the agenda today, but I will insist on it for the next session that Mr Dragan Čović also knows and that the Presidency knows that this next session will be on the agenda if I do not receive the requested answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u593	Okay. I thank Mr. Brk. Who else wants to participate, ask a question, or file an initiative? Since there are no more reports, I am concluding this point and moving on to the second item of the agenda. It's Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 6th session of the House of Peoples we have received this record. Is there anyone who wants to talk, fix something, add? No Niko's answering for a word. I think we're pleased that we can accept a report like this at the sixth session. I suggest we accept the text of the minutes we've received. Who's in? We unanimously accepted this report from the 6th session. Thank you. We're going to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. A statement by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH You have received a report from the Joint Commission. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. A joint commission report was adopted at the House of Representatives. I'm giving the Commission's report on a plea. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the report. 8 With the adoption of this report, the Law was adopted in the same text in both homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly and will, of course, go into publication. We're going to the fourth point of the agenda, Ad. 4. A statement by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Features of BiH You have received a report from the Joint Commission. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. The joint commission's report was adopted at the House of Representatives. I'm giving a statement to the Commission's report. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the report. With the adoption of this report, the Law was adopted in the same text in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and will be published. We're going to agenda five. Ad. 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the sealing of BiH institutions, as referred to in Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations - Proposer of the Council of Ministers pursuant to Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples decide on the requirement to consider the Law in accordance with this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law was passed in the House of I'm opening the debate. Nobody's answering. I give the statement that the law is under consideration under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted that the Law is being considered under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the text. Is anyone answering for a word? Okay, the law is very simple, actually. There's no record of a hearing. Now we're voting on the law. Who's in favor of passing this law? Who's in? Thank you. He realizes that we unanimously adopted the proposed text of the law. Law adopted. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. 9 Ad. Six. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – the Proposer of the Council of Ministers will be held to discuss whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Spasojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u594	Madam Chairman, I would just like to ask if, after the statement, if we adopt Article 99 immediately, we will discuss this law in question, or go to first reading, or if we will just decide to follow a reduced procedure without being able to make amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u595	Here's the answer right away. The decision on how to work, i.e. the debate on the procedure, does not mean that the law is immediately under discussion. We're just making a statement about the procedure. Secretary, am I right? Here, it means nothing more. Yes, it is. Although, of course, one who answers is entitled to talk about reasons, not reasons, etc. Shall we? Is anyone else answering for a word or are we going to ask the motion to explain the reasons for the emergency procedure? Mr. Minister Halilović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u596	The respected presidency, respected MPs, the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education is the obligations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities. It is one of the promises made by Bosnia and Herzegovina on its entry as the 44th member of the Council of Europe. Five promises explaining the Bosnia and Herzegovina Education Reform Programme were based on a meeting of the Peace Implementation Council on 21 November 2002, which they signed and taken as an obligation by top officials from Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also necessary to speed up the process of adopting educational standards and standards that will enable consistency with the rest of Europe and speed up the process of European integration. The process of drawing up a draft or a proposal for this law began in February 2002. International experts from the Council of Europe started a wider round of consultations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and proposed initial principles. The original intention was to develop a framework 10 law on the principles of education and human rights, which relate to primary and secondary education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same principles should also apply in legislation at entity, cantonal levels in the next phase. A complete draft of the framework law on primary and secondary education was created as a result of the work, and it was completed and distributed in July 2002. The draft of the Council of Europe served as the basis for further discussions organised by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees since October 2002. A new working group has been formed consisting of experts and officials from entity and cantonal education ministries. In early November 2002, a new draft was offered and the working group decided to use it as the main basis for further discussions, thus demonstrating the degree of BiH's executive government's initiative. This new draft contains all the key elements of the original draft of the Council of Europe, with it being more extensive and detailed than the initial 15 being reached by 60 members. The ministry of civil affairs took over in January 2002, following the Law on the Council of Ministers in January 2002, so it took over the duties of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in the field of education. The texting of the law thus continued until the final version of the text was forwarded to the Council of Ministers on 28 March 2003. The proposal for this law is the result of carefully consulted with authorities at all levels, especially through representatives of working groups, ministerial working groups, OSCE working groups, SSMS working groups, etc. and other actors in the field of education, such as teachers' trade unions, administrative workers, parents, international education organisations. They were all consulted, involved in the work from the very beginning. And finally, let me remind you of this document from which this obligation of ours stems, which is the November 2002 reform of education as a Brussels commitment, which says in promise number 5. – We will implement the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on primary and secondary school education as prescribed by the obligations we have adopted after joining the Council of Europe and implement human rights and educational and principles established by this accession, and adopt laws in entities and cantons that comply with this law. We will provide Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law on primary and secondary education no later than 15 January 2003. And at the adoption by 24 April 2003 at the latest and implementation by mid-2003. The Council of Ministers adopted this bill according to the prescribed procedure and of course referred to this body for adoption. It is considered that, the conclusion is that the consensus was taken by the decision, which considers that Article 99 allows therefore a more rapid process of adoption of this law, but also the possibility of possible interventions because certain different opinions of course always have certain solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u597	I thank Mr. Halilović. 11 We have heard the reasons and the explanation for why this law is proposed to be considered in a shortened procedure. Does anyone else want to talk about this? I don't see any reports. I give the vote, to a statement of vote, that the law is being considered by a shortened procedure. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have adopted a request from the Council of Ministers for the Law on the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be discussed in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, that is, the shortened procedure. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the second reading of the dom adopted the Law at the 6th session in the first reading. Now it's second reading. There was no amendment to the proposed law. The House of Representatives adopted the Law by amendment to Article 10. The committee responsible adopted Ilija Filipović's amendments to Article 3. The law. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Law. Since no amendments have been submitted in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure, we move immediately to a statement of the law. Is anyone answering for a word, a debate? Do we have a representative of the promoter? At the last session, he was a representative of the promoter. There's no amendment. However, I do believe that it was correct, and it is necessary, in accordance with our conclusion, that all the materials under consideration are necessarily represented by a proposing representative. I suggest we vote on the law. Who's in? Thank you. I find that with 11 votes to adopt the proposed text of the law. Since the Law is in homes in different texts, we need to set up a joint committee to bring the text of the Law into line. Do we have a proposal from this committee? At the last session of the House, we agreed on a principle so we could stick to it. So who's up on that deal for this committee now? I think it's Mr. Radović, Nada Radović, sir, I think Mr. Hilmo's turn, you're not, you're not Hilmo. Mr. Hilmo and Mr. Ante, which one of you wasn't? Limov I don't think he was, Tomislav. Mr Tomislav Limov. 12 Here I will repeat, therefore, Mr. Nada Radović, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija and Mr. Tomislav Limov are members of the Commission for the text of this law. They'll do it very soon, I hope. Let us be clear about the Commission. Who's in? Okay. Thank you. Most of the votes were found to have been appointed by the Commission in the form of a statement. Thank you. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name of BiH – Proposed by the Council of Ministers, the Law was adopted in the first reading in the previous meeting. Now it's second reading. On the basis of the conclusion of the House of Peoples, the Law was re-examined by the competent commission. You've received a report from the committee in charge. There was no amendment to the proposed law. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the proposed text. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on the law. We're voting on the law. Who's for the adoption of this law? Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously with 11 votes to pass this proposed law. We're going to agenda nine. Ad. Nine. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's duty on 30.6. In 2002, the information was delivered by the Council of Ministers. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives received information. I'm opening a debate on this information. Who's answering for a word? I think this is an important point and I would like to ask someone on behalf of the promoter to address and further inform us and explain this information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u598	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, MPs and others present, when it comes to when we speak in general and the ino of duty, the question always arises whether we are over-indebted, or how much we are in charge. In order to answer this complex question, we need to look at our ino duties with several aspects, especially in the 13 context of macro indicators, and then we need to look at the structure of the debt and we need to look at the conditions under which this duty is made up. I will now try to present these key indicators in order to get a picture of the debt. To point out immediately, we have data on the duty of 31.3., however, since they are here, that the procedure must be respected, so we are submitting a report on the ino of duty with 30.6.2002, noting that the duty has not seen any major changes, that it is now at that level and that it was also at 31.12. Therefore, total debt, Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt, according to data available to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, is KM 4,049,818.000,00. It's the real responsibility. Efficient debt, and total contractual loans, on the mentioned day, meant on 30.6.2002 they were 5.247.229.000,00. For us here, this indicator of how much credit use is important, so that's 4 billion. The next thing you know about this debt, it's a debt structure ratio. In this total debt is contained until 2.4.92. and we use the term old debt and that new debt of 15.12.'95. The old debt is 59%, while the new debt is 41%. Next thing you know, what would be interesting here is the state of foreign duty of Bosnia and Herzegovina per entity, and it looks like this. The Federation of BiH participates in the new debt with 73.7%, Republika Srpska with 26.3%. When it comes to old debt, the Federation participates at 59.6%, Republika Srpska with 40.4%. Now only in the shortest lines would I mention the aggregate debt per lender. When it comes to old debt, it is the Paris Club, the London Club, the World Bank and others, and when it comes to new debt creditors are the European Investment Bank, the World Bank AIDA, the Saudi Fund for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF, the Council of the European Development Bank, the European Community and other debtors. So now we've got indicators of basic debt. Now that I quote those that I have announced the macroeconomic indicators of our debt, we have made up a review of the largest debtors in the world in 2000. The first indicator measuring the level of one country's debt is the ratio of external debt and social product. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 2000, the external debt compared to the annual social product was 52%, and in 2002 it was 46.8%. The general rule is that if the duty is up to 40% that this obligation is considered to be within the limits of the social product. However, this indicator should be further observed in relation to exports, compared to the population debt and to a number of other indicators. I will now only indicate that Croatia was in charge of society in 2000, the external debt relative to the social product was 63% and that most countries in transition ranged between 40 and 50%. It can be generally said that according to these indicators, Bosnia and Herzegovina falls within the ranks of middle-indebted countries. Its only really unfavourable indicator is when 14 is observed external duty relative to exports. So of these macro indicators, economic policy should work in this direction to improve exports so that the debt situation is tolerable. One of the following disadvantages of our debt is seen in the structure of debt consumption so that the new debt loans to invest infrastructure on them are 493 million. Credits for investing in economic activities 303 million. Credits for public budget spending 938 million. I would just point out that this structure is the result of war opportunities in our country, and that future responsibilities should be strictly based on the criteria that projects financed from the task of repaying loans.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u599	I thank Mr Kumalić for this additional information and evaluations, because we have some information about this information in our report, but this is an explanation of what is therefore considered and how he assesses when the debt is within the limits let's say normal, when over-indebtedness is compared to certain criteria and indicators. Who's calling? Mr. Spasojević. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u600	Here, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs who discussed this information and who is the very detailed gentleman who was now, he explained it to us in detail. But personally, I think we're still in charge of a pretty country and we're going some way that's not good. And what the gentleman finally said was that our future responsibilities should be for those projects that will be able to repay the debt and that should be our policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, that those responsibilities relating to public spending are the past and that we never mention them again, but that we are also trying to make public spending ourselves, and all future responsibilities to be focused on projects that are possible for them to return those responsibilities that are not small at all. As you can see, I'm looking at that table over there, and we're in charge of 2038 by the parameters of some, on average, when taken somewhere between 180 and 260 million a year. It's a pretty big money for this country, and I think we should pay particular attention to exports to stimulate production meanings, export-oriented manufacturing companies and give them a head start in all these further events that will be, and that should be our long-term plan, with what we need to see to try to limit our market through the Council of Ministers, because we import everything and everything, to reduce these imports a little bit, to more base ourselves on products that we can produce ourselves. Here I am looking at this natural water that we now have here and we have ahead of us and I'm glad that water is here on our tables. If it weren't for the water from Slovenia or from some other neighbouring countries who are trying to give us all the products, and our products that we have, which are also very high-quality and very healthy 15, never think that in their country, or in the EU, we should try to take them out because we don't have a number of factors that could lead to it. And that's what they're called. South ISO 9001, ISO 9002 etc. So we have to base ourselves on this openness of imports to narrow things down a little bit, and I think we're going to go the right way and limit ourselves to future tasks that will be projects exclusively, exclusively projects that will be turned to exports. Our commission has discussed and received this information and is directing to the House of Peoples for further support and we propose that this information be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u601	I thank Mr. Spasojević. He explained this on behalf of the working bodies. Of course he gave some of his sightings. Who else wants to take part in the debate on this information? Mr. Milojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u602	Dear colleagues, I agree with this proposal by Mr. Spasojević. I would use this item of the agenda and this session today to try to invite consumers in Bosnia and Herzegovina to buy domestic products. So in the context of this story he was talking about, because we are actually illiterate as consumers. If we have quality water like this standing before us, of course we should buy it. Takoše would also give one suggestion to our institutions, or to the Council of Ministers, that in future it means when we borrow new loans to focus these loans on production rather than on consumption as it has often been. Since Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank is leading monetary policy, I also urge that I ask the Central Bank for economic measures that will therefore improve production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u603	I thank Mr. Milojević. Who else wants to take this? Here's if no one answers, I'll tell you what I'm thinking. This is indeed a very interesting topic, and this topic can be talked about very long and wide and talk about with all the more and more aspects. However, I consider these assessments that we see here from this information and read these figures, so they say Bosnia and Herzegovina is medium by the most important criteria and criteria of macroeconomic policy indicators in the middle of the country. 16 I think that’s good, but I ask the question of whether this is the best solution, that is, the situation. Of course, I'm not an expert in this area. However, I also think it would be good and useful to maybe organize, maybe organize, I don't know if it is, but if it isn't, I recommend that a round table be organised, counseling, seminaring or I don't know how much on this subject. So that experts who are of our country, and not only from our country, can also talk about the world, talk about this topic. Because this is one of the most important topics to be asked about this issue and whether or not a different policy and a view of this topic can be useful for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know and we all read, and we live here, we don't need to read much, we see, we feel that in Bosnia and Herzegovina the problem is investment, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is really a problem that nothing is being rebuilding and unfortunately starting to build. We see that some of the other countries in transition are opting for a different policy in this area. I daren't say whether it's good or bad, but obviously there are attempts, i.e. the commitment to go into debt to start investments that later need to be returned as a general good in terms of employment, opening and creating preconditions for increasing production and total income in the country. I'm not quite sure that this is the best way, so let's say a restrictive policy and one obsessing over borrowing. I personally believe that this should be discussed very professionally, and then, of course, we should include very active our government, the resolution ministry that we have now come and get and just fits etc. and see what and how to do. Because without investment, there is no momentum, there is no increase in production, there is no new employment, and we have said that the main problem is a small number of employees, a small investment, and that is why I am taking one of my thoughts from here from this pay phone and I am talking and calling for a real talk about this problem to be quality, professionally, critically and to see what is and how to go. We're running out of time, and we're about to tap in place. And so here's why this was just an opportunity for me to say what I think, and I think we need to talk about this, because the condition of keeping what it is isn't good for us. Because this condition in which we live is not good. General poverty, very low production, very small judipia, very low income per capita, one of the lowest in Europe, etc. etc. So I think this question is very, very important and important and that it should be really discussed and here I said very professionally, critically silently, listen to what it is, engage if it is necessary, and I am sure that foreign experts should, and then determine which way and direction it is when it comes to borrowing our country as well as moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u604	Thank you. Mr. Hilmo Neimralija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u605	Mr. Hilmo Neimralija. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u606	An esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, from the media, from the Presidency and other institutions. My colleagues Spasojević and Milojević urged me to go out and continue in a certain way to present my fellow chairman. But I am obliged to express someone, to say that I was actually expecting today that the Presidency will introduce us to an initiative that, through the media, I have only addressed about it, from the Federal Parliament, and as far as I know, has also been sent to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a manner of calling, or appeal or demands. I'm not sure now that I'm going to choose the right expression to buy homework, to turn to domestic products. And so I came out on the line, sharing the natural thought we heard from my colleagues I suggest to the College that in agreement with the College of Representatives' House, who has already arrived this initiative from the Federation's House of Representatives, if not well. We should see, in the media, that it was also directed to us to consider the form and content and our indication of this extremely important issue, and whose importance we do not have to potentiate at all, nor emphasize. I would just add, therefore, by continuing to what Mr. Jukić said that there are two responses that are mutually opposed to each other and mutually excluded by which there is no production without consumption. One is as new as an American response or as an answer as an American economy. The second is slightly older this continent, a European by which there is no progress, generally no production without saving. That's where we know this Protestant duo schese production, but also savings. However, there is no doubt that production or expansion of production does not have no consumption, and we are as a society considering what we have obtained with this information relatively, relatively, but we all know that a society that is very fast turns into a consumer society that for this consumption or for this accelerated, I would say, an accelerated increase in consumption does not have the appropriate growth of domestic production. And I'm afraid that the disproportionateness of these indicators of our debt, of course from a whole series of reasons, does not present validity. We are much more consumers than producers, and that scale of this, this disagreement I would say this information about our debt and objective indicators of debt properly represent. So I propose this one, coming up with other reasons why the College of our House in agreement with the College of Representatives, would consider the form of our call or appeal, or accession, or joining the call already made at the Federal House of Representatives, which would, in turn, invite us here to tell domestic consumers to turn to domestic products as much as possible and to make our contribution to increasing domestic production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u607	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Who else wants to take your word for it? Okay. 18 Here I think it is, that we can sum this up briefly. Mr Neimarlija had one very important initiative, which is that the College of our home and the College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina is directed by a proposal, namely an initiative to start for one of our next sessions with a proposal for a declaration or a call that would indicate the need for us to buy, therefore, for our public to buy domestic products and thus encourage domestic production. I think this is interesting, and I think we should accept this initiative and direct it here as it is said to the College of one and the other home of our Parliament. Okay. Do you agree? Mr Mustafa Pamuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u608	Dear gentlemen, this initiative is good, however, I am the person who thinks that at this point Bosnia and Herzegovina's development is particularly in the monetary system and the definition in the monetary financial system is actually held by international institutions and allows Bosnia and Herzegovina to be in charge and to develop as much gross national income, i.e. depending on its balance of payments with abroad. I am here to discuss here that we should try to suggest that as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible to standardise Bosnian products, to standardise Bosnian production so that we can, in this way, bring Bosnia and Herzegovina to find places in the markets of Europe and around the world, and thus contribute to the inflow of foreign funds, i.e. the inflow of some, inflows of wealth in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. You know, when we talk about some ideas that sort of reduce things in some way and lose that expansive part, it's not right for me. I would prefer to think about how Bosnia and Herzegovina will develop production and what production it will enter Europe with. It is true that, by analysing this and the world reports that Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the most qualitative areas in the matter of water. It's one of the few polluted areas, one of the possible export programmes. However, in Bosnia and Herzegovina neither is invested, nor is it more significant for the affirmation of these. The small attempts they have shown, just shown to the world and us in Bosnia and Herzegovina that Bosnian products can pass, sell on the world, or European market, is also our oasis that has done significant jobs, but the oasis has no financial resources, i.e. the banking system and at all the financial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not configured to serve, or to force development. Therefore, I think it is one of the directions in which the Government should act, or the Council of Ministers, and we were there when this speaker told us that this director of this bank is whether, these people's banks of ours, Mr. Kol, what we should do, how we should do and how we will depend mainly on the development and direction of development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u609	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Here, I'll do it again for a while. I would znati to suggest that the initiative from Mr Neimralija goes to the Colleges of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the sense of calling, that is to say, a declaration which would be an invitation for our citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to buy domestic products and thus assist the domestic economy. Who's the bottom line on this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have adopted a conclusion to refer the initiative to the collegiate houses of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly in the form of a declaration calling for domestic products to be purchased to help the domestic economy. Now, I'd like to invite us to come forward with this information. Who's to accept this information? Who's in? The adoption and receipt of information? I realize that we unanimously took note of this information and thus ended up with this item of the agenda and moved on to the 10th point of the agenda, which is Ad. Ten. A report on the business of the Financial Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2002 received a report on the business of the Financial Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2002. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted this report. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who's calling for a hearing? Does anyone have a name? Mr. Spasojević wants to talk. Here you go, Mr. Savior, and we'll see you later. Is there a need on behalf of the rapporteur? Here you go, sir. Mr. Spasojević in the back. Mr. Chief Auditor Miletić. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u610	The Honorable Chairman, the chairman, the honourable envoys, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the legal obligation, the Audit Office is obliged to submit a business report for the 20 preceding year to 31.3. This report, which includes activities in the past year, is said to have been carried out by 20 institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and makes up more than 95% of the administrative part of the budget and carried out a previous audit of institutions for 2002. These reports were submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency at the end of the month of the seventh year. However, because of the elections and because of the delay in procedures, they are only now on the agenda and the next item on this agenda. Reports are mostly well-recorded by the media and most of the printed media. They are well assessed in the public by contributing to further understanding of the role of public audit in strengthening democratic processes, reducing corruption and better public money management. As full members of the international organisation of the Supreme and Auditing Institutions, Intosain continued to apply Intesai audit standards and we participate in the joint activities organised by this well-known international institution, which has also been recognised by the UN. As for the financing of the Office for the past year, I must point out to you that it remained at the level of 2001, which slowed down the development of our institution, and daily we see that the number of institutions at state level is increasing, and existing institutions are expanding and developing. Over the past year, co-operation with the Swedish state audit office has continued to support institutional capacity building of the BiH Audit Office. It is one of the world's most respected offices and it is a guarantee that we will adopt modern knowledge and practices from the field of state audit. Finally, I would ask this high house to support the office's independence in accordance with the Rome Declaration as the most significant international document regulating areas of public audit so that the Office can fully implement its legal obligations and contribute to the development of democracy and the progress of society as a whole. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u611	I thank Mr. Miletić, the general auditor. Mr. Spasojević. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u612	I, on behalf of the Commission, again. The Commission also discussed the Business Report of the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002 and is extremely pleased with this report, with the fact that the coverage of all institutions was at 95% of the budget money spent. I believe that the revision should cover 100% of all the institutions that are attached, i.e. which are on the budget to make them impartially and independently of anyone to go through the audit, and I believe that what Mr Miletić was saying is that we need to strengthen 21 if we want a truly stable state that will function without corruption and without crime, without the malversions that we as a state going through the conditions in which we seek to get out of all these anomalies as far away as possible. We need to strengthen this audit, and I suggest, I support Mr. Miletić, which means special attention, with this revision being impartial and completely independent of anyone. That it means on its own very professional basis that it also points to any possible irregular work in any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is the only way we can move forward. This commission has considered this report and it is my personal observation that almost all institutions say that weaknesses in the internal control system are what needs to be corrected. Then if the legal procedures were not respected, we must also bring in, as our people would say in order. But that's what my colleague Milojević tells me, and I know that we'll discuss it at the next point. And I think that we, both as the Commission and as the House, should give full support to this financial, or audit house that will give us real real data and point out those irregularities and give them to the law enforcement authorities, if it is necessary for this state, as far as order is concerned, and only by such a way of working, means to an independent commission and impartially we can move forward. So the Commission accepted this report and referred it to the House in further procedure and proposed that this report be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u613	I thank Mr. Spasojević, president of our commission. Is there anyone else who would like to come forward for a discussion? We don't have any more logs. I am closing the debate and I urge you to make a statement on the report on the business of the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2002. I suggest we adopt this report. Who's in? I thank and realize that, unanimously, we voted with nine votes to adopt the report. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 22 Ad. 11. Report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office on the Financial Management of 2001: (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, (b) the BiH Presidency, (c) the Council of Ministers of BiH, (d) the Ministry of Treasury of BiH, (e) the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (f) the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, (d) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (h) the Ministry of European Integration, (i) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, (j) the Constitutional Court of BiH, (k) the State Border Services of BiH, (l) the Office for Civil Aviation of BiH, (m) the Office of BiH, (n) the Institute for Accreditation of BiH, (p) the Office for Veterinary and Economic Relations of BiH, (p) the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments of BiH, q) the Agency for Statistics of BiH, (r) the Regulatory Agency for Communications, (f) the Institute for Standards and Monitoring of BiH, t) the Office for the General Affairs of BiH, (F) the Office for the Office for the General Affairs of BiH Office for the Office for the Office for the Office for the Office of the Office for the Office for the Office of the Office for the Office of the Office for the Office of the Office of the Office for the Office for the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office for the Office of the Office of the Office for the Office for the Office for the Office for the Office for the Office for the Office for the Office of the Office for the Office for the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the You've also received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission took note of the Report and proposed to the House that the report be submitted to the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Prosecutor's Office for further consideration and treatment. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Is there anyone in the name of the author, the auditor's maker? There isn't. Here's a question I'll ask. It's probably regulated somewhere, but it's not familiar to me, and I'm not ashamed of what I don't know to ask, which is -- is this a mistake or is it really planned for the 2001 report to be considered only after a year's elapsed from what I'd say, if that's such a normal deadline? Okay. Mr. Goran Milojević wants it the same way. Goran, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u614	Thank you. Here's the thing. I would also take this opportunity to give full absolute support to the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' audit office. I think it is necessary to legally regulate that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have obligations, quantifiable objectives and 23 reporting obligations, because there have been a lot of irregularities which have looked at these reports more closely. We have on the Commission this for the administrative financial affairs of our home had just one open, uh, open dialogue with the deputy chief auditors who gave us really good quality answers. The institutions were, whether or not they deliberately used various gymnastics not to comply with the Public Procurement Act. I insisted that the session be cited also eclative examples of violations of the law on public procurement, so colleagues cited several institutions. It is the State Border Service, where this collection of these irregularities is the largest, so the Institute of Standards and Measurement, then our parliamentary assembly, where the office material, means that it has acquired these clumps in excess of the law that can be done without a tender. Then Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Treasury, etc. So, I wanted to introduce you as a delegate to what we came up with at this session of our commission, and once again here I am giving you full support to the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u615	I thank Mr. Milojević. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Genjac Halid.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u616	Dear colleagues, a respected presidency, the auditor's institution is of professional importance for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thanks to the work of parliament from earlier calls, the Law establishing the institution of auditors has also been adopted. However, several times already in the Auditor's Report, assessments have appeared for individual institutions, or for all institutions in terms of weaknesses in the internal control system, breach of procurement procedures, shortcomings in budget planning, not respected legal procurement procedures, not an adequate consolidated financial report, not accounting for certain funds, no handovers, etc. etc. These assessments for the majority or for all institutions appear in the reports of the auditor from whom the institution was established and up to this report. At the same time, this report, which we are considering today, that is, reports on all the institutions we are considering today, were submitted in parliamentary procedure 29.7.2002. So according to the law and on the previous audit and on the delivery of the report, the auditors had their report on time said they would deliver to the parliamentary procedure. Almost a year ago, reports were delivered here in Parliament almost a year ago. They haven't been considered until today. I think that one of the reasons that has not been considered to date lies precisely in the fact that these grades are abundant and that the earlier Parliament's assembly looks ahead of the elections and was not in the mood to consider the audit reports at the time. 24 In the light of that reason, and probably for some other reason, we are faced with the fact that we are considering audit reports with a delay of almost a year. These two things, these two facts, so the existence of re-examinations and this delay in reviewing the report raises the question, we support the independence of the auditors. We adopted the Auditor's Report. We note the importance of the institution, however, the law provides for very clear penalties and sanctions for those who violate. And I think it is time to open the debate on the subject and to submit to Parliament the report that the sanctions have been taken, what measures have been taken, which are appropriate or who will be responsible for what is stated in these reports. Because if we get reports every year repeating evaluations of a breach of financial discipline, and we've put the audit institution in place to prevent that breach, and there's always a repeat of the evaluations of the infringement, nothing is being done, the real question of the meaning and purpose of all of it is being raised. I therefore propose that, with the support of the institution of the auditors, we adopt and conclude that a report on the measures taken to prevent all those infringements, i.e. sanctions taken or taken to sanction those offences and to prevent them in the future. Of course, I could talk here for a long time about the revision of each institution in particular, but for this opportunity and taking care of time I just want to draw attention to two and three details. In fact, almost all of the institutions in which the audit was carried out received a passing grade. Auditor's rating is reserved. Only two have institutions where the rating is positive. So of some 15 institutions etc. It's all trouble except for two. However, I would also like this one institution, which is a positive opinion, and this is about the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I do not think that it is very problematic to give a positive assessment to the institution, which is also said that the agency has therefore had a budget in total without a classification for certain items of expenditure, as the other institutions have. Therefore, in the Regulatory Agency the implementation of the budget was carried out according to the CRA’s own financial plans and other internal rules and procedures such as payment accounts, purchase of capital assets and other etc. So, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has, on a proposal from the Regulatory Agency, allocated certain funds to the budget where no provision has been made for what is specific, what is for what purpose. So that the Regulatory Agency for Communications could, in accordance with its internal needs, share those resources, which, of course, makes it difficult or impossible to monitor the implementation of the budget for that institution because there are no specific items. I think that when the budget is adopted for this year, and we have to take care of it, I think that the Communications Regulatory Agency should also take care of it and that we can't, we don't need to adopt for any institution in general any budgets, funds and be at the disposal of it. It is necessary to specify items and to take care of each item, in order to be able to take care of each item. 25 I am, of course, not the subject of this report, but I am merely drawing attention that the Regulatory Agency for Payment Communications in the observed year 863 thousand KM has paid off, with Parliament I think somewhere, the entire Parliament with all the services, MPs etc. About a million and a half. So it is unclear to me here what is so much in the Regulatory Agency that 863 thousand KM is paid for salaries, more than half for the entire Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is, of course, the subject when we're, you know, talking about budget rebalancing. And for this opportunity, the principle of classification of budget items and for the Regulatory Agency, I think it would have to be worth it. And so I ask that this conclusion be put to the vote, to deliver a report to Parliament on what has been done with regard to the breach of financial discipline and what is it going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u617	I thank Mr. Genjac. Next came Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Šljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u618	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, in order to strengthen the institution of the auditors, I expected today to be Mr Miletić or one of his deputies or assistants within this report, i.e. an integral part of this report to be what Mr Genjac has proposed - a report on measures for offenders. Since this is a report for 2001 that is already very late, then, in order to help us strengthen the institution you represent, you should also submit a report on measures for offenders. Here I am very responsible on behalf of the Club of Serbian Delegates, I support the institution of the auditors, but in this direction you need to help us yourself. The independence of the office should be complete and maximum. The funding of the office can't be called into question. It is regrettable that here in one part of your report it is said that there is no solution to the accommodation of the Office for Audit, while it is commendable that you work on professional education and training of staff of the Office for Audit. In that direction, before declaring this report, Mr. President, I support Mr. Genjac's proposal, firstly to adopt the conclusion that we have a report on measures for offenders, in particular that it is a period of more than one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u619	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Who else wants to hear from you? Mr. Spasojević, I apologize. No, no. Here you go. Here you go. Better yet, you have even more advantage, go ahead. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u620	So I will again, on behalf of the Koisija, who has discussed the report of this audit house, which means it has been audited in almost all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, starting with the Parliamentary Assembly, through other institutions and almost all institutions have 2-3 weak points that we believe should be removed urgently. And that's one. Weaknesses of internal controls, 2. Weaknesses in the procurement procedure, 3. Bad budget plan, four. Accountancy errors, 5. Mandatory or special control for the largest budget spending, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Border Service, 6. Exceptionally, a weak and undeveloped information system should be removed immediately. It means going to have the information system installed in all institutions that is more urgent and 7. It is strictly and structurally important to make sure that it is strictly taken care of than is planned for the budget to be spent on purpose. It is one of the proposals of this committee that has taken note of this report which is a little late, but is never too late if it is truly right to debate and if adequate conclusions are made, that is, measures that will improve the work of the auditory house itself, which will improve the work of all the audit institutions by removing the audit houses in time and giving to other institutions as we have suggested that all these reports and, after the conclusion of the House of Representatives be directed to the State Prosecutors who will discuss the further fate of these reports to all. So, in addition to this, it means that the Commission has taken note of the proposal to put into the conclusions that it means removing the shortcomings of internal control of weaknesses, procurement procedures and all that I have said in the coming years is that it is no longer in these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u621	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u622	The esteemed presidency, respected colleagues, esteemed present, of course, I think it is very important that we have the opportunity to discuss the report of the auditors on the way budget funds are spent and their work is very important and the fact that we have breathed in the position that we have this institution that works transparently and publicly and puts both institutions and the public at the disposal of these reports is very positive. In this regard, I support the work of the auditor, or the Office of the Auditor, and I believe that it should continue to be even more efficient. 27 So far I have about two things. One question is when will this office offer a 2002 report to the Parliamentary Assembly? And the second is that we may see the possibility, respecting the conclusions Mr. Spasojević made, the findings of the Administrative Financial Commission. And on the trail of what Mr. Genjac was saying, but other colleagues here too, to see the possibility of asking exactly the Administrative Legal Commission, so it's one thing to correct the shortcomings in future, in future work. However, the fact is next. We should make it very clear that obviously the structures of the government in the past meeting have deliberately avoided and avoided asking this question on the agenda. Because the report on the work of this office on the spending of funds came in the seventh month of this year to the Parliamentary Assembly, in the seventh month of last year, that the elections were only the fifth, therefore there were enough reasons. There were, of course, enough reasons to praise the then-convocation and then representatives of the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the success and results of their work in the field of public and clear and legislation of the prescribed spending of funds. They missed that opportunity. The reason is now for us who come after very clear. Obviously, these are the reasons for a series of failures that have occurred, for which they were to bear at least political responsibility. So it's really amazing that we are now discussing in half of 2003 how it was held and managed, or how the state funds were spent in 2001. So my question is when will come the consumption report last year is justified, because that consumption also concerns the last structure and I think, namely, the fact is that we can't get answers now, but we get them through the constant calling about this about what, that. So my proposal or suggestion on what has been so far has been to see if there is a possibility for the Administrative Financial Commission to propose in co-operation with the Audit Office the activities and measures to be taken, namely the concrete measures to be taken for the irregularities already identified in the work and budget allocation for 2001. So not to remain that now, we've established it and nothing but to really establish the measures. I don't know them, I don't dare propose at all, but it seems to me that it was good for our commission to work with the Audit Office, and then I don't know who else it should possibly be, that the Commission decided to propose these measures which will therefore be very useful for two reasons. Let us say to the public that we have taken what was necessary and secondly to make it a very clear signal to all those who now have the means and who are involved in this process that they must make sure that they meet the law of the prescribed procedure and norms so that any failures do not continue to occur. I repeat again, it is very clear that the failures occurred thanks to negligence, carelessness or irresponsibility of political authorities in the past term.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u623	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Milojević, Mr. Spasojević. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u624	Just one sentence. I apologize for reporting on this agenda for the second time. So I propose that we make a request to the Public Prosecutor's Office to urgently consider and possibly carry out the processing of the Office of the Chief Auditor's Office in these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u625	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Spasojević, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u626	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u627	Here, I'll go before Mr. Miletić, so he'll finally give us an answer to the questions. Here, I'll do it very briefly. I think that we can here today and that Mr Miletić on behalf of us means, as a general auditor of the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions here, it's a good thing he heard our thoughts. So we give full support to the work of the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. We support and advocate their independence and professionalism in work. We are otherwise advocating and saying that we are in favour of strengthening the rule of law and that we are in favour of the rule of law. Of course we are. However, we will best show this commitment on this example that we, who are Parliament of this country, are asking for a real start, these principles that we are declaring, and I am holding and really advocated, and that we are asking the Office for the Audit of Financial Business of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions to do their job properly, professionally and very responsiblely, and that we propose that we are really in favour of these principles – strengthening the rule of law, the rule of law and consistent compliance with all applicable rules, and then we show others at other levels of government how we should work. Here what's said, I think we can sum this up in a few conclusions. We'll get to the bottom of them. One of my observations is repeated over and over again, repeating the same failures or mistakes. I think it's very developed means the Institute of Internal Audit, or control at all, and it doesn't exist. I think something more important should be done on this point so that we can really react sooner and in time to certain irregularities, so the institution itself. Also that question, if it's already set, I won't be asking here anymore. I heard part of the answer. So I think it's very irresponsible, and I think that this should be entered into our conclusions that, here, it's been a year and a half since the last of any of the deadlines that the report refers to, meaning any work and activity that the report relates to, I think it's inadmissible for a long time, and that it really takes whoever contributed to the report 29 to consider this only now, that it's at least being talked about. That's what we're talking about in public. So whoever's delaying it is, it's a delay in considering this report, that is, this problem. And here's to these, these observations I expect to actually make quality conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u628	Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u629	Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u630	I'd like to answer these few questions. I have a few comments. As for the first question of the Honorable Chairman – why were the reports delayed, why are they being considered late at this home? You've already heard the answers. We delivered the reports in time. Even too soon, and this has caused us to deliver meanings at the end of the seventh month of last year. The presidency had already considered these reports and reached conclusions in the eighth month. The House of Representatives a month ago. So, come on, we can find some reasons, that's the election. The second reason, in my opinion, would be to implement the addition of the Commission's Rules of Procedure for Finance and the budget means the total home. There was one seminar actually two in the last year and this year related to the procedure, the procedure of handling these reports. We agreed, I believe someone was from this home that from now on reports, practice is such in the world developed in the world until the ninth month that we deliver the reports. That the report is under review by the Commission for Finance and Budgets for a maximum of three months and that the reports are held for debate in the Parliamentary Assembly by 12 months. I think it's ideal and it's practice. Then they were representatives of Finland, Sweden, and I don't know which countries. And so the reports wouldn't have been lost at the moment. So I would ask the House to be able to even conclude that the Commission is being supplemented in this direction and that the Commission also has the power to call, to call for a discussion, as we say at the hearing of representatives of these clients, i.e. institutions in which further investigations are being carried out. So we deliver our reports to Parliament to the Commission. The Commission has the power to call on the representatives of the institutions' clients what they have taken according to the reports, which measures are taking, why this happened, whether this is happening now, to take measures sooner than the report comes to Parliament and it is usually too late. So I would ask Dom to go accept this suggestion to supplement the Rules of Procedure. It may even be a public and secret hearing, depending on the Commission’s assessment. As far as sanctions are concerned, the Office for Audition, i.e. the Auditor-General, does not have the power to propose sanctions in particular, is all in Parliament. So by our standards and 30 laws and reports we deliver to Parliament. Parliament is the highest body in the state. This is where elected representatives of the people sit. He's setting up a government, the government is responding to him, so it's up to you to take action. If you're going to send the report to the D.A., call on the ministers to submit reports every 3.6 months on the measures taken. All this in the House, or the Commission of this House. You've noticed the problems are internal controls, internal audits. We therefore propose that, in the case of larger institutions, especially the foreign ministry, which you will see in the report this year, there is very poor control between the DKP and the ministry headquarters. And here we propose that there be internal audit, foreign affairs in the DGS or that it be at the vault, and that there be a unit that will control these institutions before the external auditor comes in and audits are carried out. So we would take a lot of measures before the external auditor comes and usually it is too late. That's about the answer to these questions. Excuse me. Mr. Genjac had a comment about the Regulatory Agency. Mr. Genjac is right. We made an observation why they didn't, why there's only a total amount in the budget. There are no items. The mistake is in the promoter, I can say in Parliament that he allowed it to go that way. We, as auditors, were unable to do anything about it, because they were only total, total costs and we only suggested in the report that this was no longer happening and that Parliament adopted each institution's budget with individual items so that we could later exercise control and see if there was a budget breach. If the report had been reported, I had already said in the middle of 9 months there would be a report on the institutions' audit, and up to 12 months could come to the Parliamentary Assembly. For 2002. So I can tell you that the vault hasn't yet concluded the main book, yet the main book, so we don't have virtually any more reports almost from these 24 institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u631	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u632	This should be your question to the vault, a new system has been introduced, there are problems with the initial state of affairs, the conclusion of books, etc. Here, it could be one of the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u633	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u634	So, respecting the facts that Mr. Miletić put forward and accepting his suggestions, I want to say the following. It is obvious that we have not yet accepted that we are Parliament in full capacity. And I'm asking you to be. So we need to understand that the budget is brought by us and no one else. It's just the Parliamentary Assembly. Everyone else is the promoters. 31 They are taking part in the process of proposing. So the method of adoption, the rules of adoption, heights, etc. We're prescribing. In this sense, it is natural to prescribe both control rules and control criteria and deadlines. I would take the opportunity to initiate now, so since these changes are under way to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, and also to the Rules of Procedure of the Second House, the MPs of both homes together, to take the opportunity to take advantage of some of these issues that are clearly defined here, so to include them in the Rules of Procedure. Among other things, which should include precise deadlines until the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina submit their report or prepare their work report in the previous year, on the budget spending for the previous year, and then until when the Office of Auditors needs or the Office of Auditors should do their job, so that it does not happen again, which will obviously happen to me this year, even Mr Miletić says that it would be very good if we were to discuss spending last year's last year's funds in December. I don't think that's very good. I think it's very slow and it should go faster at all levels. So if companies and other legal entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are obliged to submit their final accounts by the end of February, by the end of the second month, which are then subject to further checks, then the deadline may be the exact same or possibly the same for a different deadline, where the competent institutions need to submit a report and then speed up the work. So we don't get into a situation where we actually discuss a year later every time we spend funds and a series of other suggestions that we've heard now. I think it would be good to include them in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to make certain decisions at both homes in order to end up defining this matter as an example. Inadmissible that one institution, without any explanation and obviously without any real reason, gives a flat-rate, flat-rate report, so a completely flat-rate report on the spending of funds, while others have to be manifested, malts not about every detail of it. I do not see any reason that all institutions falling under Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget do not have unique criteria and standards, therefore in spending planning and in the spending report. That would be one elemental minimum that, around which one should agree, I think now and into the future take it as an attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u635	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here's what we're going to try to draw a few conclusions from these discussions. I expect all of us to be involved in this, or to set a break to make a proposal for conclusions. I don't know what's better as a way to work. No, not yet we should write exactly what it is. Plus, plus, because the Commission is only part of Parliament in charge of this. But every member, yes, absolutely. Yes, it is. I think it would be a good idea to act in a way that we can set a break of - an hour and put in charge of 3-4 people to make a suggestion of conclusions. I suggest Mr. Spasojević, Mr. Čengić and who else? Here's Mr. Limov. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u636	Mr. Limov and the head, director of the office. So you can do it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u637	Mr Miletić should certainly be an external associate, i.e. a full-fledged participant. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u638	Please, just one brief note. A group when she's working. Please note that, just one note to this group that is, there was now, a previous discussion to clarify a little. So there is a obligation to consider in the Rules of Procedure at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Report on Budget Implementation. The report on the implementation of the budget is mainly under consideration about the end of the year, a few months after the end and it is not disputed. It remains a very effective time, if by the end of the year auditors manage to analyse everything that is the subject of their work in the institutions, and if it comes to the committees responsible, if the commissions consider it, and if it comes to Parliament. This is not a bad timeframe, given that the report on the implementation of the budget is being discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u639	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The budget implementation report will be a collection of all these reports. Yeah. One more thing plus added. We made a deal, so I'll just do it again. Mr. Spasojević, Mr. Čengić and Mr. Limov, and we will ask Mr. Miletić to join this task force. We start with, we keep working at 13 and 40. ...for the sake of our session, the conclusion-making committee was active. [[PAUZA]] Here is the proposal for a conclusion at 10 points, plus the Commission's conclusions on finance and administrative affairs. Yeah, yeah, under 10 are complete. Yes, it is. Is there any need to discuss these conclusions? If I don't suggest we adopt these conclusions. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted the conclusions. Okay, so for a stenogram, I'm going to read the conclusions we adopted. So under number 33 1. It is necessary to establish and strengthen internal control measures in all BiH institutions, 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to speed up activities in the construction of the Public Procurement Act, 3. It is the Ministry of the Treasury's duty to speed up the internal audit process, 4. On the principles of efficiency and economics, it is necessary to improve the work of the information system among all users of the budget of the BiH institutions by using modern systems, respecting the changes that are going to take place, 5. That the criteria and standards of the creation of the Budget BiH institution are unique for all budget users, 6. That the competent committees of the House of Peoples and the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the joint session discuss reports on the audit of the BiH institution, 7. In the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, to install a procedure for handling reports of audits carried out in BiH institutions, 8. BiH institutions are required to comply with the legal obligations of submitting the final account, 9. It is up to the Office of Auditors to submit the report on the audit carried out by the BiH institutions in the parliamentary procedure no later than 30.9th of the current year and number 10. Reports on the audit carried out by the BiH institutions for 2001 to be submitted to the BiH State Prosecutor's Office for further consideration and treatment. Here's the conclusion. ___________ [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] No, he won't in a year. For the previous year.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u641	Delivery, delivery. That's it, technical error.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u642	Okay. Then can we end up with conclusions this way? I propose that we now adopt the Financial Business Audit Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions arrived from the Audit Office. Who's in? Thank you. I understand that, unanimously, with 11 votes, we have adopted that report. This would end with the 11th agenda and we will move to the 12th item of the agenda, which is 34 Ad. 12. A financial report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2002 received a financial report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2002. We've also received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who wants to speak on behalf of the working body? Mr Spasojević, on behalf of the Commission for Finance and the Administrative Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u643	At its 5th session, the Commission discussed the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2000 report and adopted the Report and referred it to the House of Peoples for further parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u644	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Is there anyone on behalf of the rapporteur? Is there a need? Okay. I'm opening the debate. Next, who wants to pick up the phone and ask any questions from the central bank gentlemen? Mr. Spasojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u645	I want to ask representatives of the Central Bank – How many new bills are being printed in Bosnia and Herzegovina every year and do they have cover?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u646	I thank Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u647	Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome you to the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and apologize for not having a governor, because he is at a board meeting in Brcko, and there is also no competent vice governor who is on his way. As far as this question is concerned, I can answer you that the Central Bank means its needs by printing new money that is being printed abroad. The financial report shows the cost of printing money during the past year and before 2001. However, these new money contingents that come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they are placed in the Central Bank vault. That means there's no letting go of money without cover. 35 If you look at the last table, I think the last page on this financial report here you see that the surplus foreign reserve over the total amount of money in circulation, including the jury money was 118 million KM. This means that 118 million KM were more foreign exchanges owned by the Central Bank than there were money in circulation, including jury money. This just means that all the contingent money that is being printed, which is being brought to Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are being lagged into the Central Bank vault for future needs, whether that is when we printed a new 200 KM bill to cover the market with that banknote either for future needs of changing damaged bills and coins. There's no printing money without cover, that means it's covering over 100%.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u648	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u649	This is not my question, therefore, directly related to this report, but earlier it was said that the existing currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually temporary. I wonder if there are any conversations about it, if it's temporary how temporary it is and how it will continue to be handled in that sense? That's the first question. Second question. In the light of the fact that there is a significant difference in the value of $ per EUR and that KM is directly linked to the EUR. We are now suffering another significant blow in Bosnia and Herzegovina, except for one that is unfavourable exports, unfavourable exports to imports, so we are now suffering a blow due to the fact that now the goods sold in dollars are more competitive than the goods sold in the EUR or currencies related to the EUR. Does the Central Bank predict any changes in this sense and if so? Or how does the Central Bank intend to respond to this process?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u650	I thank Mr. Čengić. Sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u651	To take the opportunity to ask a question that interests me by following the press the most right to tell you. And I think it's an interesting question. From the press, I conclude that our banks, one huge sum of money, are being held abroad, that our economy here suffers from a shortage of money, and if it has, it gets it at a very high interest that no one can follow it from business entities. I speak as a citizen, following through the press. In this monetary policy, what can the Central Bank do to change the situation in these two segments? 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u652	I thank Mr. Brk. Any more questions or shall we? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u653	Gentlemen, the president, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to apologize now that someone has already asked the question when I came in. One only direct and practical question – How, in what way and when can the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina act or affect the interest rate imposed by commercial banks in this country? An interest rate which is 2-3 times higher than, in the same banks compared to here, our neighbors, for example. in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u654	I thank Mr. Zrn. Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u655	Here's another question, given that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank is leading monetary policy -- when can we expect economic measures to improve production in Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u656	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u657	This is a very significant report, of course, considering big questions, but let me ask you a question that in these large numbers is not that big, but for our opportunities it's big. On page 5 of the 2002 success balance, under the term "operational Costs" pays and other personal costs of 10 million in 2002, and in 2001 8 million. Other operating costs in 2002 are 4 million, in 2001 900 thousand. I'd like to ask if there's an opportunity to present to us what are the remaining operating costs of $4 million? That's one question. Second question – What number of employees received a salary in one year compared to 10 million? Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u658	I thank Mr. Genjac. Any more questions, or we'll invite the bank's representatives to answer. Gentlemen of the Central Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u659	To this first question, I cannot answer you correctly. Is it true that it is not known in any country that is a candidate for the EU about the currency's temporaryity? They don't know that exactly in Slovenia. Discussions are currently being held in Croatia which is more favourable to keep in some future kuna time or introduce the EURo. Mostly the plan is for the governor to keep Karensi's board as long as possible and then to move from KM to EUR-o currency at some next real phase. At the moment the conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter the round of EU candidates are met. He didn't go out for a pay phone. No, I don't. Probably not. As for the U.S. dollar-to-euro relationship, and we know what's going on following the exchange rates in the last year and a half. So that's the thing that happens independently of the detainee, of the will of business entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, commercial banking and the Central Bank. The Central Bank sought to monitor the EUR and US dollar ratio of deposits held by the Central Bank in other banks and to give suggestions for our clients holding deposits in the Central Bank that were shown to us...although we had negative exchange differences in one period because we received information from the ino banks that there would be a growth of $ relative to the EUR. But there was a temporary growth, I think it was a month of 6 last year, up to 1 10 months last year, a small growth was, that in 12 months, we would have negative exchange rates due to the decline of $. But if we hadn't sold that dollar, if we hadn't sold a very small amount of deposits in the dollars we have, it was about 3 million measured in KM, we'd have a much bigger exchange rate. The central bank also holds its off-balance sheet, deposits of its clients and we are ready at any time to analyse the $ and EUR movement in case a client wants to make currency conversion. As far as the third question is concerned, will you?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u661	He didn't go out for pay phone 38.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u662	The central bank can only give analysis and suggestions to whoever needs it based on its analysis of currency exchange rate movements.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u663	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u664	Be careful, that's theoretically possible. But then we're already questioning Karensi's board. Karens' board requires foreign exchange coverage of the entire domestic currency and demands a commitment to an ino currency. It is a similar principle in Estonia, Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u665	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u666	No, not yet. Hold on to the EUR, and I think it's even more acceptable to the environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be tied to the EUR, than to take a basket of currencies, for example, Swiss franc, yen, dollar, etc. I think this is more acceptable. As for commercial banking, i.e. keeping large amounts of money abroad at interest rates which I would not say are too large, in any case, the contributions that commercial banks can make on these deposits held by banks, it is obvious that this is certainly less than commercial banks would have a contribution to have quality placements, i.e. loans on the domestic market, and thus to encourage production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, we need to understand that the environment is such and the risks of the commercial banks of state deposits in the banks are much lower than that of the companies. Although I fully accept that version that much better for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy would be this other thing I said. It means there's bank placements in the economy. Only monetary policy measure taken by the Central Bank
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u667	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u668	It's private banks in the majority. The only measure the Central Bank has is a mandatory reserve. From 1.6 a new decision of the Central Bank on a mandatory reserve where the reserve must be made for the underlying. So a set of deposits on the passive side of the balance sheet of commercial banks and KM deposits and foreign deposits. The basis for the reckoning will be 5%. There were various comments in the paper from 39 foreign commercial banking on the measure. It has even been said that such a trend is falling interest rates that are currently in place, where it could be hitched, or growth of interest rates in commercial banking. One of the measures taken by the Central Bank to warn it, means the Central Bank of 1.6 will not pay compensation to commercial banks on the part of its deposits on the basis of a mandatory reserve at the Central Bank, but on the total amount of deposits held by commercial banks at the Central Bank. In my assessment, this could affect the central bank's spending segment about 5 to 6 times as much as we prejudged at the beginning of the year. In that part, we are likely to rebalance the Central Bank's budget, but the measure should prejudge announced complaints from commercial banks so that they can increase interest rates. So commercial banks will have more income on this basis, because the Central Bank will pay them compensation for the total deposit they have from the Central Bank based on our earnings on the certified deposits that we have at the banks and in this way we will probably be able to prevent these commercial banking announcements from increasing interest rates. Because there's no reason for commercial banks to increase interest rates when they're going to have a much higher income than 5.6 times that based on the Central Bank. I think this is also the answer to this fourth question that was also about the impact of interest rates. You know there's no such thing as an econtact rate in the Central Bank Act. So the only measure that monetary policies have, that's the central one where the Central Bank is currently a mandatory reserve. And I think this new decision that goes into effect 1.6 will benefit commercial banking and there's no reason to grow interest rates on the domestic market. As much as I expect, there could be a further downsizing of that trend. As for the promotion of production and the role of the Central Bank. The central bank, in principle, provides Karensi Board with an absolutely stable 100% over 100% covered currency in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is one of the elements, but it is certainly not the most important, nor the most important element that could affect the increase of production and economic growth in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a whole series of problems and measures that, depending on our environment, depend on the economic situation and in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the countries of the environment, depending on the events being carried out, depending on or independent of our will, the crisis in different parts of the world. I think the Central Bank can set some elements there, lay some groundwork, but I think a whole series of measures and central government and entity governments and further levels of government, including normal attracting foreign investment, and that depends on a lot of things. As far as this last question is concerned, Mr. Genjac, if I'm wrong, about these other expenses here at the Central Bank's success balance sheet. It was a matter of salaries and other personal costs, administrative costs and other operational costs. I'd like to answer the following. The IMF, or external auditor, imposes on us, and I agree with that to pay other personal costs. We throw in some things that don't put in commercial banks because they might go a little differently. So 40 things about personal costs to call them that, including all taxes and contributions at personal costs, are in this category. Unlike commercial banks, if you watched their balance sheets published in newspapers these days, also with an audit opinion. They have one item on directorial costs. One part of those personal expenses that we display as personal expenses, they represent as overhead costs. As for the number of employees in the Central Bank on the page, just to find out which page, on page 9, you have in the middle of that page the number of employees the Central Bank had on 31.12.2001 and 2002, but this is just the number of employees on that day, which does not mean that it was an average. I think the average over 2001 was around 200, 210 people, and the Central Bank had a large number of increases in the employment rate of 31.12.2000 and 31.12.2001, respectively, due to the development of the payment system. So this is just the number of employees on that day, but it doesn't mean the average in that period. As for administrative costs, they fell in 2002 compared to 2001. You can get at the request of the Central Bank a complete analysis of these costs. I think I have these helper tables that serve more for my control of what these things are made of. And as far as the other operating costs are concerned, there is a 26 on page 26, just to find out, there is a small table on page 21 – the other operating costs of which are two years in 2001 and 2002 respectively. Coupulative for one year and another. These are expenses. The first item is the cost of fees paid by the Central Bank to domestic commercial banks, as the Central Bank aims to have as little damaged and destroyed banknotes in circulation as possible. And we pay a commission of 0.5% to the commercial banks that pay back the damaged bills. The largest figure in 2002 was the cost of transactions with foreign banks based on implementation, i.e. implementation. In early 2002, we introduced EURo into Bos and Hercegovina in order to be ready for the first month of 2002 that we had EURo that we could put it into circulation through commercial banks. The Central Bank also regularly brings foreign currency to the non-banks in order to make them account for these foreign exchange assets. The biggest item was in part of these costs. Costs of production and design of bills and coins 2.9 million. These are those bills and coins that the Central Bank is printing, that is, making a plan for how much it will need to replace the bills, how much it will need bills and coins for future payments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u669	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u670	If you have any questions I'll be free
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u671	He didn't come out for a pay phone 41.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u672	The average salary is somewhere around 1,200 marks.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u673	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u674	250 per day 31.12. 250. These are all costs that we can call personal costs including all taxes and contributions based on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u675	I'm thanking you. If there's any more questions, but let's just be like this and act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there's any question he can ask, then we're here to hear all the answers from the central bank gentlemen. Someone here mentioned it, a little melted. Okay, no more questions. I suggest we take the plea. I am giving a statement to the BiH Central Bank's financial report for 2002. I suggest we adopt this report. Who's in? Thank you. I understand that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have adopted this report. I also thank the guests of the Central Bank. We're going to the 13th question. Ad.13. The consultations on the source of judges from BiH to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the College of the House of Representatives and the College of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, at a joint session, discussed the issues of BiH judges' election to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. For a judge from BiH to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Dr. Ljiljana Miović, Dr. Zoran Pajić and Mr Ahmed Žilić. At the joint session of the College of both homes, they proposed the following conclusions: 1. The House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH supports the proposal to run for judge from BiH to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg: Ljiljana Mijović, Dr. Zoran Pajić and Ahmed Žilić. 42 2. It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers to prescribe in the future precise procedures for nominating national candidates for membership in the European institutions, in accordance with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 3. It is recommended that the BiH presidency... submit a list of candidates. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk about this? Since there are no reports of discussion, I conclude the debate and give the statement of this conclusion. Who's in favor of these conclusions? Who's in? I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the readings. That's what we're done with the 13th agenda. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. The request of the Council of Ministers for Correction of Technical Error in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of the Council of Ministers submitted a request for the correction of the technical error in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship, as there was a technical error at the 6th session of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers. You know what a small mistake is – technical correction. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to hear from you? He doesn't want anyone. I suggest we adopt this request to correct the technical error. Who's in? I thank and realize that, unanimously, with 11 votes in favour, we've passed a technical error of the law in question. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. Giving consent to ratifying the Open Sky Treaty – Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to this contract. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? If not, Mr. Čengić on behalf of the working bodies. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u676	Does he have a proposal? So, very briefly. This idea is over 50 years old. A number of countries have already joined her, one has not. Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready to join the process after the BiH presidency's decision. It is simply that 43 under this document BiH is required to make it mandatory for the other members of the signatories of this contract to be allowed within a certain time period or in some periods within one year for the aircraft to record military installations in BiH, in order to prove that it respects international conventions, rules, regulations, etc. The Commission considered this question, this document and agreed to adopt the document in such a text. Of course, if others have the right to do...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u677	I thank the gentleman. Are there any more reports of a concussion? Is there a need for the fartor to explain the additional proposal? I don't think so. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a statement and give consent to ratifying the Open Sky Treaty. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted, or agreed to ratify this contract. Ad.16. Giving consent to ratifying the addition of the Montreal Protocol on Matters that damage the ozone layer – London 29 June '90. year – Proposer of the BiH Presidency Report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives has agreed to this protocol. Working bodies, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u678	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in accordance with Article 79(2). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina discussed the following materials: - The proposal for a decision to ratify the addition of the Montreal Protocol on Matters that damage the ozone layer, London on 29 June 1990, proposed the Presidency of BiH; - Proposal for a decision to ratify the supplement of the Montreal Protocol on Matters that damage the ozone layer – Copenhagen on 25 November 1992, proposed a decision on the ratification of the Montreal Protocol adopted at the 9th meeting of the Parties, Montreal on 17 September 1997, proposed the Presidency, and the processor of those documents is the Council of Ministers. The Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously adopted those proposals and referred them to the House of Peoples further procedure for adoption. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u679	I would like to thank Mr nada Radović on behalf of the Commission of Constitutional Law. Mr Čengić, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u680	The way things are, Mr. Chairman, I'll bore you to the 24th point of the agenda. And in order not to be so boring, I suggest you immediately talk about these three next points of the agenda, because all three are concerned with this Montreal Declaration on the Protection of the Ozone Cover. So this is one document, which has long been launched, and then as life continues, there is a complement to this decision to the new decisions, so we are currently in a situation that BiH has decided and is ready to, in fact, adopt three additions to this montreal declaration at once. Our commission has considered, briefly speaking, the activities that should help reduce the damage of the ozone layer through the action of the industry through production, which, by the way, damage this envelope and our commission has proposed to this home, that all three of these, all three documents or amendments, all three of these amendments be accepted at this session today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u681	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here, we heard a proposal from our commission rapporteurs, working bodies, so, to consider under these three points that defined the Montreal Protocol with the Copenhagen and Montreal supplements, that... November 25th, '92. and Montreal on September 17th... the year at one point. I think we can agree on that, because, in the end, it actually refers to the same document that was complemented twice. No Niko's answering for a hearing. I don't think we have much to discuss. I think we can make a statement about this and give consent to ratify this protocol. We plead who's in favour. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we have unanimously ratified, agreed to ratify the Montreal Protocol with the additions as said. Thank you. That's what we did. Let's go to the next item on the agenda. Ad.19. Giving consent to ratifying the friendship and co-operation agreement between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain – is the proposal of the BiH Presidency Report of the committee responsible you have received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. I'm opening a debate. Working bodies. Here you are, Mr Čengić, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u682	So, Mr. Chairman, you won't be mad at the stenograms to say that we adopted points 16, 17 and 18 of the previous vote. All three concerning the Montreal Agreement. And as for point 19, it is the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain. Namely, these contracts are no longer in fashion. It's something that used to be very common. Mostly now, countries usually now, when it comes to bilateral agreements, make agreements directly on a particular issue or a particular issue, but as the friendly Kingdom of Spain requested and, in fact, insisted that we sign this agreement with them, because it is, on the other hand, from the point of view of Španija. It is their custom to sign such a general agreement first, and then individual contracts and, if we already have one signed agreement with Španija, therefore, our side, of course, accepted that, because Španija is a very important country friendly and has proved to be such in both the war and the war in renewal and, of course, we want to develop good relations, both politically and economically. Španija is an important member of the European Union, and we must somehow cheer to lobby for us to get in as soon as possible. So, the Commission's position was to support such a contract, and now to ask all the competent authorities to work on concrete contracts, to get as many contracts as possible to enable better business co-operation infrastructure and any other. As far as this contract is concerned, he's of general nature. We believe this home can and should be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u683	I thank Mr. Čengić. Anyone else want to speak on behalf of the promoter? There's no need. Thank you. We're going to a plea. I suggest we give consent to ratify this contract in question. Who's in? I thank and realize that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have agreed to ratify the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain. We're going to the next point. Ad.20. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement between BiH and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the improvement and protection of investments - Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. On behalf of the working bodies, Mr Čengić, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u684	So, as far as this contract is concerned, it is a common contract between the two countries when it comes to protecting investments. The holding of the contract is exactly the same as with the contracts that BiH has already ratified with other countries. There is nothing new, and on the other hand we are certainly interested in this contract, because we expect to have an ever-increasing cooperation with the United Kingdom and Ireland in the future, and we hope to be able to interest their investors, so this is one of the elements that can certainly benefit future investments from this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u685	I thank Mr. Čengić. Anyone else want to talk? Niko one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we come forward and agree to ratify this agreement. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 11 votes, we agreed to ratify the agreement between BiH and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on improving and protecting investment. We're going to the 21st point of the agenda. Ad.21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement in the Sava River Basin – The Navigation Director Protocol – Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this framework agreement. I'm opening the debate. I call on the competent authorities, Mr Hasan Čengić, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u686	So this agreement is an interesting agreement, which should allow for better co-operation of states located on the Sava River's saliva. It is Slovenia, Croatia, BiH and now Serbia-Montenegro. This agreement has been negotiated and discussed relatively long. In the end, it was agreed and signed, but on our commission, it brought particular attention to one fact concerning this agreement. And that is, that the agreement mentions that there will be a seat of these members of this contract, however, is not a defined place where the seat will be. At the beginning, our country proposed that it be Brcko, which has some logic, because Brcko is the only port in BiH on the Sava River. The others were a little undecided at the start of the negotiations and then the appetites of all appeared, so Serbia-Montenegro proposed Belgrade, after Croatia proposed Zagreb, Slovenia proposed to Ljubljana and, interestingly, the Treaty was signed without a decision on the headquarters of this association. 47 However, our commission felt it was very important to sign this agreement and, we felt it was possible to subsequently agree the seat, but what has already been agreed on to be ratified. For this reason, therefore, we have proposed to our negotiators to try to re-use Brcko's headquarters, but if it is not Brcko's headquarters, we consider it important to have one such contract and we believe that today the House can ratify this agreement and, possibly, insist on the competent authorities to agree within some reasonable time and this is the only remaining and unresolved issue, which is the seat of this, the seat of the commission that will take care of the implementation of this agreement. In this sense, to perhaps avoid any discussion at the House, we think that in this form it is acceptable for BiH, because all other participants in the agreement have signed and ratified exactly this text of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u687	I thank Mr. Čengić. I agree. Here, we heard the arguments Mr. Čengić gave. Of course, it is the interest of BiH to sign this because, I don't know how well it is known, but, behold, the Sava Basin area belongs to the largest unregulated areas in terms of flood defence and other unregulated areas in Europe and, apparently, there is a need to regulate this. I think this is step one. But here's the thing, unfortunately, I'm still missing something. So they haven't agreed on where this committee's headquarters will be. I guess he'll make a deal. I hope it goes as planned, though. I suggest we give consent to ratifying this framework agreement. Who's in? I thank and realize that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have agreed to ratify the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the navigation regime. Ad.22. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision between BiH and Ukraine on the improvement and reciprocal protection of investments – Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has given its consent to this proposal for a decision. On behalf of the working bodies, Mr Čengić, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u688	So this contract is the same as the previous contracts that we have already declared today and all other investment protection contracts, reciprocal investment protection, but let me suggest to you members of the College one thing in the future when you do the agenda, if it is possible for the points that have these titles to group 48 to each other. Well, then, when you have more of these conventions for ratification, for example, for foreign investments and trade, to group them together so that they can suddenly decide about them. Thank you very much. We think we should adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u689	I thank Mr. Čengić. I thank you for this suggestion, a proposal for the College to take care of the order of the agenda. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? There are no reports. I propose that we come forward and agree on a ratification of the BiH-Ukraine Decision Proposal. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 12 votes, we have agreed to ratify the proposal for a decision between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine on the improvement and reciprocal protection of investments. Point 23. Ad. 23. Giving consent to ratifying the trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of India – Proposer of the BiH Presidency is the Proposer of the Presidency. On behalf of the working bodies, Mr Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u690	Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me, I'd like to reassemble the 23rd and 24th agendas. The first Treaty of Trade Agreement with the Republic of India and the second with Ukraine. Since it's working, if you'll excuse me, I would.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u691	One thing at a time. They're separate countries, after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u692	It's a deal. So, very briefly. This trade agreement is common. It therefore contains all the provisions that contain other decisions, i.e. other trade agreements with other countries bilaterally. It will, of course, be valid until Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes a full member of the World Trade Organisation. After that, he'll probably stay as a contract, but he'll be taken over by this general contract. There's nothing new here except that there's one finding that's painful, but there seems to be no one else to hear it but us members of the House. I'll say it anyway. The previous state, which Bosnia and Herzegovina was a member of, according to information, had an annual exchange of nearly a billion dollars. With India today, we have something less than a million dollars. So it's about India being a big area, one wide area, and it can be 49 definitely attractive, regardless of how India has a very developed production in certain things, but there's no dilemma that the Bosnian economy could have an interest in that space. And obviously, the economy, the Chamber of Commerce, and in some ways, the Council of Ministers would have to make a much greater effort to find ways and ways to make our products, our knowledge, our services and our engineering appear in this vast space of India. So one such important market that is uniquely regulated, which has unique laws and gives incredible opportunities for co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u693	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone to report for the hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we give consent to ratifying the agreement in question. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 12 votes, we have agreed to ratify the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India. We're moving to agenda 24. It's Ad. 24. Giving consent to ratifying the trade agreement between BiH and Ukraine – Proposer of the BiH Presidency gospodin Čengić again on behalf of the working bodies, President of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u694	So this contract is identical to this previous contract and the contracts that we previously accepted. There are no new provisions and the same finding that is objectively sad. Ukraine is a country we can work with and we can develop much better bilateral relations. Unfortunately, we, unfortunately, if we follow the press of Ukraine only know by what we would call some kind of human trafficking, and by no other means, although it is one country that has potential and given our level of production, at our level of technology that we have certainly has an unmatched space for trade co-operation with Ukraine than what we currently have. We believe that this agreement should be ratified and we hope that our economy will find its way to much better co-operation in the future than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u695	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone to discuss? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 50 I call you to a plea. I suggest we give consent to ratify this contract. Who's in? Thank you. I konstatirati it unanimous with 13 votes for the agreement to ratify the trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ukraine. We're going to the 25th item of the agenda. It's Ad. 25. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a debt consolidation decision under the Paris Club between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Japan – the BiH presidency's proposal. Do we have working bodies? Mr Zoran Spasojević, President of the Commission for Administrative and Financial Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u696	Here I am in front of the Commission, although we had some problems in front of the Commission, this morning we had to put it on the agenda, so we weren't really, either as chairman, and neither were the members of the Commission exactly familiar with this agreement, so I'm sorry, if what he said is a lapus or if I don't say it right. What I understood this morning is that the Government of Japan asked for an interest rate of 8.5% for the debt they took, which was taken from the Paris Club, but one of our ministers in some period since 2000, I think it was Minister Kurtović, that he signed it, but it didn't come to that realization so that it was drawn up and until it was brought together with the international community to, that the interest rate was reduced to 1.86, so we saved around, or 67% by what the funds would be reprogrammed by 2031. So this debt is something we can do to get back and I think it's a good job and we need this agreement with Japan at the Paris Club to give him consent to ratifying. Nothing else. The first tranche should go 1.6.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-05-21-0.u697	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. brkati. Here's what we went so fast. It's because the deadlines are down. So 25th of this month is the deadline for signing, and the implementation of 1.6 is already due. So we really tried to be operational and responsible for the deadlines, I think we did. Here's a brief explanation. Is there anyone who needs to talk? No Niko's answering. I'm making a statement. 51 Who is to give consent to ratify this motion for a decision.? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the proposal for a decision to consolidate the debt under the Paris Club between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Japan, and that ended this session today. I thank you all once again for your response, your work. We expect the next session soon, because these days we have been criticised by the Council of Europe for not working enough.
