ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9422	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 19th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, during today's session to attend the session, the members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the EU, representatives of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission and of the Mission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed their interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the UN Mission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the meeting were also invited by a representative of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since we have a report from the Election Commission at this session. I warmly welcome all those present who responded to this session. According to the Service report, I find that although MPs are still arriving, more than 30 are attending, so 32 MPs are attending. The absence was justified by Milorad Živković, Vinko Zorić and Mladen Potočnik, and Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Abdulah Nakaš will be late on his announcement for some time because of his urgent duties. Here's some information that Ivo Miro Jović should be here any minute. But in any case, we have the necessary quorum so that we can make full and full decisions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've won a draft agenda for the 19th session. I just want to brief you briefly that at yesterday's session of the Extended College, we have made only one amendment, and that is that we have added one new item of the agenda, so we have added a new point, that is - a selection of members of the Finance and Budget Commission. I ask you to accept this point. The only intention was therefore my initiative to elect a new member and new chairman of the Commission for Finance and Budget, since I have a lot to do in the preparation and work of the Representative Council and in the meeting of the Parliamentary Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To ensure that the Commission does not suffer, but that Parliament is properly serviced from the work of the Commission, the proposal is to select a new member of the Commission. That is what we will do when this point, if you accept it, comes to the agenda of the announcements we propose for a member and president of the Commission. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Križanović. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9423	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you of the conclusion of this home from the last session of this House in connection with the selection of the commission, our investigative committee tasked with examining the accuracy of certain allegations, the involvement of our representatives in the affairs, the binding of uncertainty, intimidation, bombings and coups. If you remember, we chose a commission in the persons of our college and the conclusion was that at the next session the committee, what it had done in its work so far, was submitted to the next session. So I'm asking you to put that item on the agenda, because that was the conclusion of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9424	I thank my colleague Križanović. I would beg that in writing, only in writing suggests a item of the agenda. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, Dr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9425	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I propose the next item of the agenda, and that is - Report by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on initiatives and activities so far on the construction of the Korido Vc. highway. I also proposed this last time, and I did not get support, and so now I ask the MPs to support it, because I find it quite correct that after the initiatives that we have from the Republic of Croatia, then the European Bank and other factors that are also involved or express their willingness to do so, it would be really correct for the Council of Ministers to submit a report in writing, of course, and to get to know each other about it. Six billion marks to how much it should cost the project is perfectly understandable to ask for parliamentary control to be established over such large funds, considering the importance of the project itself. Last time some of the MPs didn't support me. I think it may have been a lack of enough or a smoky side of reason, or perhaps a misunderstanding. I cannot understand at all that it may be that something is going on outside Parliament and that such important moves are being made regarding this project, and that Parliament should not know about it. If we respect, and we believe that Parliament's dignity and how we should raise to the highest possible level in order for it to be a kindness today to support this item of the agenda. Let us leave time for the counsel to prepare this account and get to know and conduct the course of the discussion. Please and I appeal to you MPs, given that there is no reason, I deeply believe here who is sitting, and also the party's view that building a road is a great state interest. To cover anything up and that MPs at this table as the highest authority in this country shouldn't be actively involved. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9426	Thank you, Dr. President. Gligor. Who's next to the word? He's not answering anyone else. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we will plead, even though our colleagues did not ask for a few points of the agenda to be placed in, I suppose, as the last item of the agenda. So we will first declare the proposals made by the MPs to supplement the agenda as they have been carried out. The first was the request by Mr Joza Križanović to establish as part of the agenda the information of the investigative commission on the involvement of our representative in the preparation of the coup, the cause of chaos, bombings and intimidation. Who's to get involved? Here's, I'm asking you who's so this will be the point of the agenda? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So 34 people present voted 24 against 4 abstentions 6. So we have most of it. We're moving on to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Federation is 15 for, from Republika Srpska 8 for. I find this adopted as a part of the agenda. I suggest that it be the 14th point of the agenda. _________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Please, we need to get to the bottom of this. I don't mind, but about everything Parliament needs to. I would ask, however, that we have the understanding that this information is behind a plea regarding legal projects that are also interesting. I'm asking for your understanding. It doesn't matter what agenda the dots will be. It is important that Parliament supported it. So please be the 14th point of the agenda. Here, please, can we reach an agreement to be the 14th point of the agenda? It doesn't matter. I beg you, then. It's logical because you didn't simply go looking for a place to put it. Don't make us waste any time. So can I ask the SDP Club to accept that this is the 14th point? Thank you very much. 4 Here we put the motion to a vote. Who's to be the 14th point, or to be the proposal that SDP colleagues say, since it's their proposal. May I ask you from the SDP to define the conclusion at which point of the agenda you are asking to be included. Point 3. Who's to make this point 3? So please, here we go with the democratic procedure. Who's against being number three? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen of the 34 MPs, for it was 10 against 17, abstention four, so we did not accept this proposal from the SDP Parliament Club. So it's going to be the 14th point. Who's to be the 14th point?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9428	Well, it shouldn't have been debated at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9429	Of course. We'll finish everything, please. I ask the MPs to vote. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? It could happen that the point is out of the agenda. Those who seek the circus will have it. I'm sorry. Yeah, but we have to. Looks like even the promoter doesn't know where... here. Please. It'd be good if that happened, too. Ladies and gentlemen of 34 present, for it was 20 against five, six abstentions. So we have most of it. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, so Federation 13 for, from Republika Srpska 7 for. So a proposal has been adopted to make this 14 points of the agenda. Thank you. However, at a democratic, democratic procedure, we have reached the desired point of the agenda. We have another suggestion. I'm just asking for a little patience. We haven't even started, and the circles have already begun. We have a second proposal from Mr Tihomir Gligorić, so he is to include the agenda point. It would also be good if he defined which one. But here's what we're going to define. The last one, then. To be like the last item of the agenda, so 15. – Report by the Council of Ministers on initiatives and activities so far in the construction of the Motorway Corridor V-c. 5 Who is it to put this as a part of the agenda? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of 34 present, 17 for, nine against, eight abstentions. So we have most of it. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ladies and gentlemen of the Federation were 10 for, from Republika Srpska 7 for. I find this accepted as the 15th item of the agenda. I ask the Service to inform the Council of the Ministers that it is mandatory to refer to the 15th item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we have therefore adopted the agenda, the following agenda: 1. Journal of the 17th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under an Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of MP Petar Kunić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions (first reading) - Proposer Filip Andrić, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 9. Proposal for a Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 10. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission on the implementation of the 2002 General Election in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 11. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's eviction, 12. Selection of a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on Technical, Economic, Financial and Humanitarian Co-operation, 14. Information from the investigating committee on the involvement of our agents in the preparation of the coup, the cause of chaos, bombings and intimidation and 15. A report by the Council of Ministers regarding initiatives and activities so far on the construction of the Roadway Corridor Vc Please send this innovation to the first break of the agenda adopted by the press and the distribution of MPs. Six ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. I'm opening a debate from the 17th session of the House of Representatives. Mr. Ćeman's picking up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9430	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the record is, I would say a document to myself and no matter what its contribution always is, and that ultimately stands a transcript from the session to which it relates, I have a need for a little intervention. At the last session, I asked one parliamentary question, which was recorded by other colleagues here. However, when I ask parliamentary questions, I usually mention two three findings that introduce the one to whom the issue concerns the content of the issue. That is why I would insist, and this is also an observation to this record that the whole parliamentary issue is listed, if already as such in the minutes, because last time I realized that in the Republic of Croatia and some other neighbouring countries there were workers who had worked there before the war, so I asked the question of their legal status, etc., but the part quoted here does not at all indicate which workers it refers to, but can even conclude from this part that it refers to workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is, of course, a matter of technical nature, but I think it should simply be taken into account when in the future, here and in this particular case to supplement this issue with a complete text as I have written it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9431	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we adopt the minutes of the 17th session with these suggestions Mr. Ćeman said in a technical sense. Who's to adopt the record? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the record. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Parliamentary questions and answers, Dama and gentlemen, after the first part of the 18th session, we received an answer to the question of MP Seade Palavrić delivered at the 15th session. I'm asking Mrs. Palavrić if she's happy with the answer or if there's any comment? 7 Since counterpart Palavrić is not currently in the hall, we are moving to ask new parliamentary questions. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Moranjkić, then Bešlagić, then Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9432	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, my question today is addressed to our esteemed kolegijum of this House, and it reads - Gentlemen of the College, does this College intend to take action and launch activities in this House against those who ignore the various ways of the MPs of this House not properly, or by no means their questions? If they will, and when will they be, and what will be the measures? Because this doesn't make sense. If this is going to continue, I suggest this home to conclude that this constant point is deleted so that we don't waste our time. I would especially point to article 76. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers which says, and most of these issues are addressed to the Council of Ministers that it is required to answer the parliamentary question within 15 days. If this is complex, it may request a written or oral extension for another 10 days maximum. It has never happened in this house, which means MPs and their questions are completely ignored. That's why I'm looking for an answer like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9433	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I just need to draw attention to the parliamentary possibility. You can think if we turn Parliament to each other's questions what could possibly come of it. I ask you, it is the right of an MP to raise the question of the responsibility of an organ whose answer is not satisfied. Nobody slows it down for you, but don't let us inform each other. Mr. Moranjkić,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9434	I'm sorry. There's no point in me saying this from here, at the pay phone, I've been trying to raise a question that both this home and the College have been deaf to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9435	I therefore ask the Members of Parliament to read the Rules of Procedure and there is no way that we can address each other for an answer. You have the right to launch different initiatives. I'll back you every time, but this asking questions in a way that you get, unfortunately the answer is this one that I'm already giving from behind this pay phone. The word is Mr. Bešlagić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9436	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, since it is common for us to have no one present here from the minister, that we do not have anyone present from the Presidency, which is common, I think from now on I will ask all my questions, i.e. questions and answers, both verbally and in writing. So then we'll go as far as we can go. But I have two questions. The first question is the possibility of achieving one efficiency in this Parliament and it is said - Is it possible that one session is dedicated to all the laws adopted by the High Representative so that changes can be made more quickly and efficiently? I ask this question to the College and I would tell the professional services to take out how many laws there are and that, if that can be proposed in the initiative, that it means one session just dedicate to those laws. No, I'm saying it as an initiative because we're all going after 105, by 105, etc. I'd like to go through a regular normal procedure. The second question is very interesting to me, I would like to ask Mr Ivanić's statement in the Austrian newspaper that the issue of Kosovo is also a matter of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me read it that way. I ask the answer is Mr Ivanic, as minister, obliged to see more of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests than other states? This is what I'm asking for him to come here first to say what he said, because we can't get information from the newspapers and we can't get an oral and written answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9437	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9438	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, my question is addressed to our colleague and is intended to become certain activities that would improve the efficiency of this house, and in the context of our decision yesterday on a permanent session. So the question is - Can the College of the House of Representatives do anything to speed up the procedures, i.e. the administrative path of the law on the route of the Council of Ministers, working bodies, the House of Representatives? An example works. It's not the most drastic example, I'm sure we've got a lot more drastic. Here we are today considering the Law on Court Taxes in the case before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers laid down a proposal for this law 5.6, i.e. 5.6. The Law came to the congregation on 26.6. He's been traveling for 21 days. The first procedural action in the Assembly, the first procedural action in the Assembly, took place on the commission 7.8. We only have this law today on September 23, 24th. This isn't the most drastic example. I really do well-intention this question as an incentive to do something and to have material for permanent sessions. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9439	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is from Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9440	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two short questions to which I request a written answer. First of all, what kind of leadership and employees in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament can do about better maintaining the environment of this building and its external appearance, which is really not to be commended, starts with those dirty windows down on the ground floor, greenery that is not being maintained? Because it doesn't seem a bit representative, and I think we should put a little effort into it, because really when you go around this object you get one picture, we can look inside and talk about something else, but that outer image is really ugly. So I'm not talking about the inside, I'm talking about the appearance. - So is there any kind of project, where it's staged and when it's going to start to work out? That's the first question. And the second question -- in line with yesterday's decision, so the constant session, I think it would be good for us to get information from the committees of this Parliament how many sessions have been held so far and, of course, the presence of MPs at these sessions? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9441	I thank Mrs. Milićević. We have the conclusion that commissions are obliged to report their work six months, and I think it might fit in with this answer, but here's the answer. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Thank you. We've exhausted the agenda of parliamentary matters. I thank you all. Yes, I thank all of you who have abstained from asking questions, and the reasons may be different why MPs do not ask questions. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. It's Ad. 3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment under an Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill with the request of the Council of Ministers were delivered to you at the last session. I'm opening a debate on an emergency request first. 10 Who Answers the Word? Nobody's answering. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. Who is it to discuss this request under Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of 30 present, for 26, v. 1, abstention 2. So we have the entity, we have the majority. There's no need to vote on entities. So now we're going to make a statement about the law. Who's to accept these amendments to the law? Who's against it? - 1 Are there any abstentions? I find that, with one vote abstentioned and the other, we have adopted the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment, so that we have adopted amendments and additions to this law. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 4. The request of MP Petar Kunić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill were delivered to the House on 10 September. It was passed to you on September 15th. I regret that there are no promoters here today, but this does not hinder our ability to make this request known. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9442	The essence of the initiative, i.e. the proposal and the amendment and addition of Mr Kunić, is acceptable and understandable. However, two things are problematic. No Mr. Kunić, let's get past it somehow. Today, however, we also have amendments and additions to this law on displaced persons and refugees. It would be good if this somehow synchronised and went into one context. I think it's unusual for them to change and supplement one of those same laws at two different points separately. Come on, there's no suggestions, let's try to figure this out. But it's about two amendments to one of those same laws to two different points. You'll agree that it's really unusual.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9443	Thank you. The word is Mr. Šefik Džaferović. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9444	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly sorry that today there is no legislator of the Law that he says more about the very meaning of passing this law. I could not object to the inclusion of this law in the agenda, because the proposer has proposed a procedure under Article 105, and that is our business obligation, but I would like to say that without any further explanation and without any expert or expert explanation of this law, it would be very uncertain on the basis of some unknown facts to adopt such a significant and important law. Look, I mean, this law has practically only one member who gets into property laws that are reorganized by entity regulations. I don't know how to end it in both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities, and I'm afraid we don't get into some kind of confusion. It therefore provides for one provision which states that persons who have made the swap of assets during the period provided for by the property laws and have applied for the return of their replaced assets acquire the right to return property after they prove that the replacement has been carried out under duress and when the other Contracting Party is placed at the disposal of its replaced assets. So this is property law issues and otherwise property legal issues that are governed by laws and these court procedures. I am afraid to tell you that on the basis of this kind of unprepared condition, we are going into the procedure of declaring this under this fastest possible procedure under Article 105, which is why I will plead that this law goes into the ordinary procedure, so that the Constitutional and Legal Commission and all other bodies can be declared, in order to obtain the views and opinions of the committee in charge, and only then, eventually, declare themselves on the law. That means today I will vote against the procedure under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The chairman of the home, Mr. Špirić, has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9445	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, whenever someone makes a clear way and the only business possible way of trying to put the agenda point, there's usually no understanding in this house. This House shall, in accordance with Rules 105 of Procedure, include the items of the agenda of the law, which shall be up to 25 or 30 pages or 105 or 150 members. I don't know, and if we need to take a break to explain to each other what this applies to. This is a very important change. This is the change that puts the problem of refugees and displaced people on state rather than entity level ladies and gentlemen. This is, therefore, the change, and you know that, unfortunately, the entities as to which people came and were concentrated took these responsibilities, so they care as a stone in their throats and here they are looking for a passage to the BiH state to protect their citizens. You know that in BiH, that people, war tragedy changed assets, and that we have non-standard legal projects, say in us neighbouring countries of Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, and that those citizens, who, therefore, paid that price in BiH, because during the war and courts were corrupt and they were also charging for their exit, and now they charge for judgments, in the sense that they are going, therefore, to stay under the hat of the sky next to the State Parliament and we tell us not clear. Here, I'll read it to the public for you. Mr. Petar Kunić is a doctor of law, I don't think he'll propose amendments to laws that are in collegiate with, please read well, to the public to read. 12 Says the persons who replaced the property during the period provided for by the property laws. Therefore, during the period provided for by the property laws, and they have applied for the refund of their replaced assets, they acquire the right to return the property after they prove that the replacement has been carried out under duress and when they make available to the other Contracting Party its replaced assets. Is there anything more logical? It is that people in court prove that they did it under duress, to enter their property, but to commit themselves, regardless of whether it is Belgrade, Zagreb, to return property to people where their property is. And this is an interest, so this is the interest of the BiH state. So, I'm asking you to accept this amendment. This is not the only example, I remember when my colleague Palavrić, at the time I supported it, suggested, also amendments and additions to the law, which was another point behind it, but it was about correct changes and I accepted it and therefore, if you need a break, please give a little understanding that this amendment is being incorporated into the law, because it is useful for this country and its citizens. Well, look, please listen to each other. We'll take a break if you need a consult. The idea of Mr Mesić on the tilateral on the route Zagreb-Belgrade-Sarajevo was accepted with relief from those people to whom the idea applies. This is just a way to strengthen it, because it's impossible to solve problems if we don't want to go to the people that these problems are dealing with. Thank you very much. So, I'm going to support member 105's emergency procedure, and I'm going to support these changes, because I think they're in the interest of the citizens of this country, and I think they're in the state's interest, and if we adopt that, some entities adapt their legislation to the state. You see, sometimes when entities don't, there's such a cramp and a political story that lasts for months, and now that the state has to take over, it won't. Why? I wonder why. I wish I knew why we wouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9446	I thank the chairman's home. Mr. Belkić answered the word, and then I have a replica, provided you give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9447	Perhaps, of course, if it weren't for this classic replica of ours, simply, Mr. Špirće, knock on the open door. So, and what I was saying and I dare say what Mr. Džaferović warned about, it's only in fear of making a complication. Gosodon Špirić, in my first sentence, I said that I absolutely support this kind of commitment and, for your information, so when you became a public message here, etc. The people sitting here certainly understand what this is about and I, as a member of the Presidency, have asked the government of the neighbouring country to resolve this issue, in the way it is addressed to all citizens throughout the region. So, don't, you haven't discovered America, when we are for this, but we are warning, of the potential consequences. What if citizens, based on this amendment to this law, can't realize what you're talking about now, then let them report to you how they're going to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9448	Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9449	So if I give up, will you? 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9450	No, it's not about yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9451	Dear colleagues, colleague Špirić, I'm sorry that you or you didn't understand me or you didn't want to understand me. I don't know what it is. I think I'm one of those people who really advocates raising to the state level in BiH as much as possible and, of course, I'd be very happy to have the area, so-called. property laws arranged for the entire state of BiH, by this parliament. And, here, I agree with you completely. Let's agree, here today, to bring, if it is necessary to conclude that property-legal issues in the whole BiH state are regulated by laws, it is not just this law. It's a lot of law and much more important and significant laws, here by this Parliament, so I agree with that. But what can be a feller in all of this and what can be unacceptable is that a mass of things or a huge number of things are subject to entity laws and that only one thing from that total mass is ripped out and raised to a state level, it is, therefore, not a principled regulation of property-legal relations in BiH. It's not legal practice, it's not legal theory. I've got to be a little bit now, given the circumstances and the expert in this area. I don't mind the essence and the meaning, but I'm afraid of the complications in practice, I'm afraid of abuse, and I want this issue to be seriously considered and taken seriously, because this question deserves a serious approach. This approach that we have now, I'm afraid it won't only cause more interference and I'm afraid it's not unserious. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9452	I thank Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9453	Mr. Chairman Nikola Špirić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9454	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to, of course, ask you to take this question seriously. What Mr. Belkić says, I didn't say this to the public, I didn't discover America either, but I want to tell you that our regular procedure, and you said how long it takes, will leave at least three hundred or five hundred unfortunate people in this country under the clear sky. Why are we here? That now we doubt it could produce this or that. Let's take a break, let's get this straight. Is there a misunderstanding? But I think it's a useful change where people have been willing to change property, so, by serving it and saying, it's under pressure, they get their property back, but those people, too, who have changed, have to come into owning their property, that's that trilateral relationship and circle. If we don't make that possible in law, so if we don't make it, there's no way. It doesn't matter if at one point it's Srbin, in another Bošnjak, in the third Hrvat. So this law is not a law that tends to any people. He is, absolutely, on the line of protection of the fundamental civil rights of every man and with an ato, I ask that we adopt this amendment today, so please. Of course, it's a matter of all of you to vote the way you want. But that'll make an impression on me, where I sometimes suspect, so for the sake of the citizens and this country's interests, I vote. Thank you very much. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, Pa Novaković, picked up the word. If you agree, let Novaković go, then Gligorić, everything is one thing. Here you go, Novaković. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9455	Ladies and gentlemen, it's good that no one argues that this is an important issue and that we want to solve it and, whether it's settled at the moment or in the other day, we're going as serious and responsible people to solve it. When I say that, and in principle I want to point out, we, as Parliament, have reached one conclusion that if there are no proposings, we are not discussing this concrete proposal. We made a deal first. Next, we don't have this situation right now. However, I think that because of the importance of this matter we might see, the College might have been able to agree on that, we had the same good will here on the committee and we were considering on the Committee on Human Rights, but we said that it needed the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Mr Raguž and Belkić joined, etc. And nobody had, didn't want to create anything, created any negative situation, in the sense that this issue wasn't solved. We could now, plead on that, after a break, after some consultation. We have made a decision that we are in a permanent session, now we are no longer in a hurry home, we can also convene a Constitutional and Legal Commission and thus plead. The promoter is gone, but it is also, as we have concluded, we can also make it clear that we have this situation which, by the promoter, is clear. Because the problem is, when the promoter is gone, when you have a situation that's burdened with dilemmas. It's not here. This is where you work and why you don't say on, here's a concrete example. If a Srbin with a Hrvat in the Republic of Croatia replaces voluntary property and are now states, as they have formed, that their institutions function and operate, the Hrvat can replace it in the RS, there is no problem, there is a completely open state of exchange, but there I will not blame the Republic of Croatia, but there are simply people who have worse characters. They made a nice deal, and this one says I'm ignoring it. I've got my assets that I've replaced, and I have two now, and you can't accomplish in this case, say, a Srbin. Therefore, many other reasons both Professor Špirić and Mr Džaferović spoke of. Is this now part of the property law, which Mr. Džaferović was talking about, or is it about refugees and displaced persons, where Professor Kunić suggests that we go when it comes to changing and supplementing the law? I think the only solution that Professor Špirić has suggested here is to take a break and solve this issue, but without a difference, I deeply believe that we will solve this issue and that we cannot escape from it because of people, because we make laws because of people, because of our citizens, and if our citizens are damaged, then in that case, we as responsible people cannot escape this situation that we have in the field. If we're stalling this, and this is my suggestion not to be now that it's some time-buying thing that's stalling right now, it's an urgent solution, because people can't wait because they're on the street. That's why I think we need to find a solution today, on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9456	I thank my colleague Gligorić. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I suggest a 15-minute break, and we will proceed in the same order. I communicate on the line that we understand each other, what this change refers to, that it is on the line of protection of basic civil rights. [[PAUZA]] So I would ask the debaters, here, that those who have applied for 15 exercise the right to address Parliament and that, simply this point of the agenda, we successfully implement. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. If there's a need, it'd be good, so did Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9457	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I would like to say that there was a dilemma here from Mr. Belkić. Why two laws? How and how two laws on the same problem to say, conditionally speaking the same problem, means the same law at a single session. In fact, at the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Mr Kunić submitted an amendment to the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Law by the Council of Ministers, but since amendments can only be submitted to those members which the Proposer proposes to be amended, from the occasion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission's position he was unable to make such an amendment, meaning such an amendment cannot be discussed and cannot be considered and for this reason Mr Kunić then went with the law on amendments and amendments to the Law and hence, here at this session, means in accordance with the Rules of Procedure he had to and found this proposal, because he asked to follow Article 105. I also want to say that this problem, which treats this amendment to the law, is not an entity problem to be solved by entity law. Otherwise, he'd probably be dealing with entity law. It is a problem between, relations between states, meaning that it reflects on relations between states and therefore it must also be found in this law, which is proposed here. What I also want to say is that the Serbian Democratic Party Club will support both the emergency procedure and the text of the law. One of my disappointments is the fact that some MPs did not seem to me, to a sufficient extent, to understand the essence of this article or did not understand it or simply do not accept it as such, and fundamentally, it is that it makes it impossible for someone to find their own and other property. So someone can't be found now owned by one or more other assets, and these positions were made thanks to the High Representative's decision, which put out force all the agreements on the replacement of assets signed in BiH, and at the same time such contracts in other countries, so the environment wasn't put out of force, so we got one illogical situation. So here is the desire to correct an illogical situation and make sense. Any law can be viewed in the context of negative consequences, even this if we look at it in this context, but if we want to look at it in a positive context, then surely it has this positive context and the negative contexts, so it is the part where it is said, it means that there is a court, which will solve it, meaning what these negative effects are and will prevent these negative effects. There's another aspect I'd like to say here, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. I don't think it would be good if we didn't support this for another reason today. I am speaking from the position of my club, because yesterday we are discussing conclusions, also one proposal from our club, and I think it was important to find in the conclusions the question of those who want to stay, means, in their hearths, these new hearths, we haven't treated it and I'm afraid that now putting it, or not accepting it, would lead to such a single position that this parliament here doesn't care enough about all the citizens in BiH, and should, of course, be. Here's me with one suggestion to accept this procedure. I think he's clear enough and, of course, this member is quite clear and acceptable. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9458	I thank my colleague Novaković. The replica was reported or explained by Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9459	Well, it's not a replica, it's me, really, that I have to say the following to the end. In the light of this law, it reads the following. The persons from Croatia who have replaced property with persons from BiH, lost property in BiH for their replacement, and the property they have changed in Croatia cannot be returned mainly for the reasons that the persons with whom the property has been traded as owners of their property and have no obligation to do so. I fully accept this argument and this attitude towards BiH citizens is incorrect, unfair, and I will plead that BiH citizens come to their rights, to clarify themselves. It's completely clear. It is not acceptable to replace the property, to kidnap the citizen of another country without the citizen being able to return what he has given in exchange for what he is from BiH, without the citizen in BiH being able to obtain his property. Let's be perfectly clear. So this is my position, and I think it's in line with all the legal standards, and I will plead to protect the citizens of BiH. And, this part here, the reasons, related to the law, are, therefore, completely narrow and completely normal. But what's the problem with people, and why did I go out for a pay phone? The reason here is that the law is motivated or raciolegis, which stems from the reasoning of the law, is that the protection of persons who escaped from the Republic of Croatia to BiH, replacing property with citizens of BiH, who received property in Croatia. It's raciolegis. In the very text of the law, this law, the law of this Parliament, the law of this state, it applies in time and in space. Its time is from the moment of entry into force until the time of the end of the law and its space is the state of BiH and we can regulate relations with legal norms in the state of BiH. So that's one thing. It's another thing. Here in the law, therefore, there is no indication of who these persons are, but the whole regime is being introduced, or the regime for the territory of the BiH state, and that is fine, but I ask you, the law must be precise. The law must not cause confusion on the ground. Let it be said. What kind of property law is that? He says, at the time of the property law. What kind of property laws are these? It must be specified precisely, the official list, the official messenger, the official newspaper, as you will, must specify precise laws. It must be stated what time of validity it is and let me tell you, in the area of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was banned, it was banned by the traffic of immovableity. For sources of war and direct war danger, no traffic of immobility is allowed. I had to put these, let's say, partly arguments that I know, because I'm dealing with this problem, it's my profession, to just warn what it means, what it's called, to bring this law, to this unprepared field, and everything that I'm looking for, so that we study this thing and see how best we're going to help the citizens of BiH. I'm not asking for anything else, and please don't go out for a pay phone and express your surprise, because there is, apparently, no understanding. On the contrary, there is an understanding, and here I say it openly, I am so that, but please, we must not use the legal norm, we must not impose confusion by law, and that is why I have suggested that this goes into regular procedure and, behold, you will see when it is a regular procedure that Šefik Džaferović will plead on this law. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9460	I thank my colleague Džaferović. He used the right to discuss, it wasn't a replica, but there's no problem. I'm not gonna hang up. Mrs. Seada Palavrić answered the words, so Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9461	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me just rely on what Mr. Džaferović was saying. So we have before us a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. What Mr. Džaferović said, that is what can be applied to BiH and I think that, indeed, this solution should be accepted for all people in BiH. The Raciolegis of Mr. Kunić's Law has not been reached and cannot be achieved by amending this law, but must be sought by an interstate contract or by some other act between Croatia and BiH and we are prepared to do so and let's work on it. The problem that is evident is also evident in BiH itself. We have people in many BiH cities, who, despite the ban, replaced. Is it coercion or not, but the fact is that we have people who lose and their property and the one they're supposed to get replaced, and that's why I'm peddling, or we're going to go into regular procedure, or, if there's any good will for any of the MPs to take over this bill as a proposing, to accept the procedure under Article 104. So, the deadlines will be cut in half and we'll go into that procedure. Indeed, there is a good will to do this also in this law and that the problem that Mr. Kunić is talking about and that we are all aware of is solved between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. This is not how this problem is solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9462	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9463	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry there are no proposings, there must be a valid reason why he's not here and some dilemmas would probably get rid of it. I want to make it very clear to repeat the principles that need to be solved here. The first principle is that we, within BiH, must repeat within Bosnia and Herzegovina, by law ensure that people who have forced themselves to sell their assets, that, if they prove it, they have the right to return, therefore, within BiH. When we settle this by law within BiH and that law within BiH, we can ask that things be resolved on the basis of our legislation, in accordance with international agreements and agreements, in the way Mrs Palavrić has already said by some other and Mr Džaferović. So, I'm afraid this argument has made a mistake. At least it made a mistake for us, because this argument was set up as an explanation for another law, an amendment to the law, not what stands here. If I hadn't seen this argument, we would have raised both hands for, because we would have thought it was true, that anyone who was in any part of BiH, in the period mentioned here, under duress, under gun, under the threat of death, under fear, was forced to sell their property and to verify it to local courts and sell that property at a cost, that these people have the right to prove that it would cancel out and return their property to them in the proper processes. That's the intensity that we fully support, and I'm sure everyone in this House wants to support it. 18 So, if I hadn’t seen the explanation, I would have thought that, these two members were dealing with it. So let me do it one more time. We have made it possible for the laws, amendments to the laws, to enable existing people in BiH to return their property, which has been forced and sold under duress. Likewise, in order to resolve this with some neighbouring countries, in particular Croatia and some other countries, they do not have to be just neighbourly, in order to run it, we need to have this law to show that inside BiH we are acting this way. We have no right to say, we ask Croatia to agree to this, and within BiH, we have not agreed to this. So, the suggestion is, I'm sorry Mr. Kunić doesn't have it, or if you want to postpone it today, if there's no willingness to go after 104 or to postpone for the next session, but I'm afraid this way we're not going to do anything. We're just going to look ridiculous in front of the domestic and international public, because we're asking that the principle between the two states is respected that we ourselves don't respect within the state. And that's why the proposal is that the Proposer, or if he has someone authorized by the Proposer, accept to clarify these matters. To be clear, I repeat once again, there's an absolute goodwill on our part to get rid of the intensity I've said here. I repeat again, for the sake of the manetogram and everything that every BiH citizen, who under duressly sold his property and proved it, has the right to return to him in an appropriate procedure under the law defined by law and, on the basis of this, to pass a law, which will oblige our state institutions to do so, in the legal way, in the context of other states, including those which are listed in the reasoning.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9464	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Ladies and gentlemen, on the verge of a good atmosphere, of finding a solution, so, on behalf of the good atmosphere, I propose that this amendment be adopted, since there is no proposing, that, here, on behalf of it, I request the procedure of Article 104. So, to create a good atmosphere for this to be adopted, to make a decision. It's not the point of this conclusion that we're getting weary today, that we're voting and that the conclusion doesn't go away. The goal is to solve the problem, by way of amending and supplementing the law, in order for the problem to be resolved, and therefore, here I am contributing to this good atmosphere, and I really ask you to pay attention to this, because there is a problem in the field and the state of BiH has to deal with it, and in that sense I am asking others who have announced the debate, that, therefore, we simply declare that this law is going in the procedure of Article 104. Can we? Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you very much. Here, I realize that we have overcome this problem in a democratic way. Moving to point 5. Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Insurance Agency in BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure Dama and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers sent this bill to the House on September 15th. He was sent to you, also on September 15th. The request of the Council of Ministers is, as you can see, that the law is being considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on this request by the 19 Council of Ministers regarding the procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the hearing, and we're going to a plea. Who is it to accept this proposal from the Council of Ministers, to discuss in accordance with Article 104? Short procedure. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the request of the Council of Ministers and that the proposal for a law on the BiH Insurance Agency will be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. In accordance with this decision, the College will appoint a competent committee and this law will go further into the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Article 104. We would therefore conclude the 5th item of the agenda and move to the 6th point of the agenda. Ad.6. Proposed law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH – second reading For your information, in the first part of the 18th session, the bill was adopted in the first reading. From the report by the Commission responsible for finance and the budget, you saw that there were no amendments to the draft law in the commission phase. The Commission supported the draft law in the proposed text. No amendments have been submitted to the Commission following the examination. I'm opening a debate in a second reading without amendments. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the vote. Who's to pass this law? Do you mind? - One against. Are there any abstentions? So, I realize that with one vote against and we stayed in favour, we passed the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is a good thing that we have come to such a law. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on concessions – first reading – MP Filip Andrić raditi to refresh little of our memories, as is known, at the 17th session of the House, we had the request of MP Andrić, that this legislative proposal be considered under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. However, after the debate, he amended his request to implement the procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The home, therefore, adopted a request with a shortened procedure under Article 104. You have received an opinion from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions and referred the bill to the competent Commission. For this legislative proposal by the Commission responsible for finance and budget, you have received a report from the Commission. As you have seen, the Commission did not support the principles, nor did the text of the proposed law. In that sense, here, with these notes, I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Are there any debaters? There isn't. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. 20 Who is it to support the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on concessions of Mr Filip Andrić in the first question? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So out of the 30 there were 12 – against 13 – abstention 5. So we don't have a simple majority, there's no need for an entity statement. I find that this proposal has not been adopted to amend and supplement the Treaty on concessions. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugee Act and displaced persons in BiH in the first reading is the Council of Ministers' proposal for amendments to the Law. The proposal for a law was sent on 1 August. At its 17th session on 7 August, the Home adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposed law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis and has sent the draft law to the competent commission. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum is responsible. You've received a report from the committee and, here, after this information, I'm opening a debate about this law in the first reading. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9465	Mr. Špirić answered his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9466	Ladies and gentlemen, here, since there are no debates, my goal is, therefore, to simply state my personal position. I think it is about important changes and additions and I think that these amendments and additions to the law are in favour of that category of BiH's population, which has been decommissioned for the longest time and has been out of their homes. In that sense, I also support the views and the Commission on refugees, immigration and asylum, and I think it would be good today if we all supported these views of the Commission of amendments, that for this reason, since it is a matter of invigorating the foundation for reconstruction within BiH, that it might be good to create an atmosphere to adopt the law in both the first and second readings, since I see that there are no debaters and that the Commission's report will be proposed, this would be my proposal to contribute to the adoption of amendments and additions. I think they're important. They are important for the citizens of BiH of all constituent peoples, the nation and are important for the most deficient category of the population in this country. So I ask you to create a mood to combine first and second reading. Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word, so Mr. Jovanović did.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9467	Dear colleagues, I went out for a pay phone only briefly to support the House Chairman's proposal to adopt the law today, both in the first reading, and then, of course, after the debate on the amendments that we have here to approach both the statement and the law in the second reading, so that today we have this law adopted by the 21 House of Representatives and then wait for the House of People to do that part of the job, so that we will have this law for almost all the reasons mentioned there in the law, and I would particularly underline what the chairman Špirić was talking about, and this issue is about the functioning of this fund as a very important and important issue for BiH. So much and thank you. I thank my colleague Džaferović. I have indicated this only as a possibility, since there was no debate in the first question, I would ask that we conclude the statement of the law in the first reading, and then we will have the opportunity not to open the controversy now. So let's finish our first reading. Mr. Jovanović, you'll get your word, just to be clear about the first reading. Is that okay? I beg you, of course. Who is it that we accept this law in first reading, the views of committees, of course. The amendments are phase two. So, in the first reading. We'll do that later. Who's in favour of, adopting this law in the first reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we unanimously passed this law in our first reading. So I suggested and asked that we create a mood to declare ourselves also on the law in the second reading, which does not prevent that, here today and the amendment, simply to make it clear about them and the law on the definitive version, and in that sense it was also my assumption that the commission, our commission, has its own position and in that sense, I think, on the contrary, it would be good to support the views of our committees to make a statement on the law in the second reading. Of course, if there are other thoughts, I'm obliged to put them under consideration and make a statement about the amendment. Mr Jovanović answered for the word, so Mr Momčilo Novaković answered. We're going to a second reading debate. We'll plead if we accept another reading. Here's to let Mr. Jovanović finish and then we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9469	Mr. Chairman, I wish we had a minister. Here, there, so someone can. There's one thing that's not clear to me, and I'd like someone to try to explain. So, in Article 3 of which there are criteria for identifying potential users, meaning that those assets could be obtained, so point 6 says that he and the members of his household since, I say, in 1991, do not have another housing unit on BiH territory, which is considered conditional on housing, in accordance with the relevant standards on minimum housing units. Does that mean now, meaning a specific question means that whoever has been living in Sarajevo since '91 now built a house in Zvornik, means he made a house out of his own money. Does that mean he doesn't have a right to this right now to say help repair his house in Sarajevo? Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9470	I thank Mr Jovanović, before I open the debate to declare whether we will accept the initiative in the second reading, Momo, because the intervention, please whether it is business intervention, is not a problem you will get the word. Five minutes off, that's no problem. Here you go. The break is at least what seems useful to me here we'll see if I can ask my colleague Novaković, please give us a break and we'll start working. So, as far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that the break was useful, Mr. Ćeman, I'm asking you, if we're going to go to work. There was a break to make the finding. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a situation to discuss the law in the second reading. We have received a report from the Commission amending the Commission as an integral part of the text of the law but after that we have received amendments and amendments to amendments from Mr Momčilo Novaković and Mr Ćeman. In this break, I have tried to talk to you, and it seems to me that it would be a strong contribution for the proposings to withdraw the amendment, to declare ourselves on the law and to support the Commission's amendments. If that mood exists, it would be good if it doesn't exist, I must give the right, therefore, to the amendment's proposings to explain them, to make this Parliament known about each amendment. But I'd like us all to make sure that we don't spoil the atmosphere regarding the final statement of the law, and so I'm asking the amendment's proposing that they keep that in mind. Here I am opening up the credentials, who I hold to my word, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9471	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues I believe that I will not spoil this atmosphere but when I write amendments, I write from a truly sincere intention to improve the text of the law and I think that what I did in this case is on this trail, but given that in our first reading we voted on the principles of this law, which is on the agenda, and I personally supported those principles with you, it is certainly on my part, but also in view of your statement, certainly the assessment that the law as such supports it, that it should be adopted. Now we're at that stage to see if we can really get there and if there's room for improvements. As you could see, by calling for Article 94, paragraphs l and 2 in one part, I tried to further explain my point of view, an argument concerning amendments to which the Commission did not pay adequate attention or did not accept them, and by calling on Article 1, I tried in some way to dispute proposals from the Commission itself. I'm going to try very briefly to give my reflection of the explanation and I can finally say that, in the light of the presidency's suggestion, I'm going to make an effort, so to say that we still get to this law today, because I really appreciate that it needs to be adopted. Therefore, on Amendment 1 which I have tabled on Amendment 2 to the Report of this Commission, where it is requested that the Director, President of the Commission and Minister of Human Rights should be of all three constituent peoples. I'm the one who suggested that it be erased. I went with the next logic. The Council of Ministers and ministries law addresses those issues concerning national and other 23 participations in the Council of Ministers. This law which is on the agenda therefore speaks of another body such as the Commission where it can possibly be considered in relation to key functions when it comes to the Director or the President of the Commission, etc. They should be this, covered by participation and national because it is one thing that Bosnia and Herzegovina should mean, etc. I just went by that logic to say overall considering it should be taken into account but these two laws should be passed in that way in a relationship might not be questionable. So it's up to you to decide about it or decide. The second thing, when it comes to the Regulation on the Systematization of this Office or already as it is called the Professional Service to serve this Commission in one place, is proposed by the Competent Commission to, in agreement with the Commission, therefore, be in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Refugees. I remind you that this law in other provisions says that finally that systemization regulation is passed by the Council of Ministers. It is proposed by the director of this office or, as these professional services are called, secondly, very characteristic and no one has attacked it in this law in Article 5 relating to Article 23 when it comes to the competencies of the Refugee Commission, it is said that it is particularly responsible for giving guidance when drawing up sublegal acts that regulate the work and organisation of the Return Fund. Please nice, giving guidance doesn't mean this, giving consent. That's why I went, so whoever proposed this amendment didn't consistently follow the entire text of the law. Therefore, by adopting in some way that the final Regulation on systemisation is adopted in agreement with the Commission on this, the refugees, and not in the attached opinion, or through these guidelines, in a way contradicts itself. So when I considered this provision, I had in mind the full text, which may have been missed by the Commission and by the one who proposed the first amendment. This is about the amendments that I tabled by calling for Article 94(1). As regards Amendment 3, which I have tabled by calling for Article 94(2), I have come from the fact that the Commission, as set out in the Bill, numbers 9 members. I think I made a more legal technical formulation compared to what was in the Bill Proposal by the Council of Ministers as well as in the final one, as adopted by the Commission. So I came from the fact that the Commission numbers 9 members, to be explicitly said as it states that 3 members of each of the constituent peoples are, therefore, not at risk. The sledeći thing is that according to the situation, a direct explicit provision is not a ambiguous Commission member, the Minister of Human Rights of the Council of Ministers, entity ministers for the area, so refugees or already as they are called there, and then I put the whole technical matter in place so that I said to the other members of the Commission as follows. Ministry of Human Rights 3, entity governments one by one and the government of the Brcko District of one member. Since the law proposed states that the Council of Ministers appoints this committee, please those who are not in position, it may happen if the Council of Ministers has already appointed that it has any objections to the composition. I have gone a step further consistent with this provision as it is possible to assume such a situation and have prescribed that if, therefore, the first vote on the proposals of those who are not according to the position, the proposals of the members of the Commission as a whole, and that this proposal, for any reason, does not go through to repeat the procedure, only for the 24 part that are not according to the situation. In this way, the procedure for the election is consistent with this, carried out in this law according to this proposal of mine. Of course, here is this, the question is whether it is the right solution to vote for those who are according to the position individually or as a whole. I think since the solution is not to have an incomplete commission that is the only logical and legally consistent solution for the commission to vote as a whole. Therefore, my proposal for an amendment that has been before and before the Commission is, in fact, truly in my deep conviction, a complete handling of this issue and, at the same time, it does not touch on those essential principles which are also embedded in the Government's proposal. Of course, this question remains whether the Commission should be appointed by the Presidency or by the Council of Ministers, to be honest, I have bowed to this proposal to be the Council of Ministers, although it must not be a problem in principle, I see that the Commission has accepted, by majority, that it should be the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is not such an important issue, although it is a single message that the Council of Ministers as a Council of Ministers and the Resord Ministry in its co-ordinating and executive function in some way this one, achieves co-operation with the entity executive bodies of this, i.e. the ministries and, in my opinion, is a better solution, but of course, I have no intention of insisting on that. I'm sorry I won't be long, but just a few more notes about two more amendments. I am also for consistency when it comes to Article 23 and B within Article 6 I suggested that when the Commission decides whether to meet outside its Sarajevo headquarters, so please do not need most of the members of the commission nicely. It is literally understood and linguistically seen that the provision that remains really means that, because it is said there that, with the agreement of the members of the Commission, a session can be held outside Sarajevo. Please nicely, I know how sometimes we know how to vaccinate in interpreting regulations, so I wanted it to be explicitly clear that in that case, at least it can be decided by most of these, so present and not all. In my view, it's quite one logical thinking, although it's not a big question, but when we're making a regulation, maybe it's and it's called this, professional deformity, we lawyers finally and it's our obligation to try to pass laws that are clear in each segment. Even when we try to do that, we miss a lot of things. In the end, I also suggested that, since Article 24c is in Article 2 under Article 8. The draft law behind the wording of the budget does not mention the municipality of the canton budget to add the word canton, because in the second place in the same law that no one attacked nor the amendments, nor does the Commission tell the rest that the filling of the fund is done among other things and from the funds given by the municipalities. So this, too, is just a consistent, therefore, legal normation of this, where they are mutually related to this provision of members that they do not contradict one another and that of my constant objection to the proposals of the law. Please allow us to publish these laws from the level of the state, in a state official vote and not the ballots of the entities because here's no colleague Novaković seems to have the opposite of this, you know says the official votes of the entity are more of them in entities. So everyone will buy Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger because it must follow the legislation from the state level because it concerns all citizens and those who should act accordingly, especially the official authorities. Therefore, the argument that the official votes of the entity are more accessible absolutely does not stand. I've explained it before, and through my initiative, it's cheaper not to spend money publishing the same regulations in three, four official texts, better to give someone to fix the rag on the house, and we're talking about the refugee law right now. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9472	I thank Mr. Ćeman for his brief explanation. The replica has Mrs. Ljiljana, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9473	Dear colleagues, I've listened to Mr. Ćeman and as far as amendments and explanations are concerned, I've already read that. It's all beautifully written. I have an objection to his last sentence. Are we going to split so much about where one law is published or is intended to bring it to us and make it available to every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in both entities. I think why it bothers to be published in the Official Messenger, so it's important that he comes to people to see what their rights and obligations are. I don't think that's why we're arguing. Let's get the law passed and let it be published if it's due in the daily paper, but it's too expensive, just let people know what we've brought and how we do it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9474	I thank Mrs. Ljiljana. Mr. Momčilo Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9475	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I will explain this very briefly which Ćeman, my amendment and, of course, if we have entered into the debate, I would like to comment on this amendment. Before I say I don't remember voting to discuss another reading. It seems to me that we did not and we did not enter into the debate in the second reading without saying that we were discussing the law in the second reading, but here we are, having already entered into the debate, we practically gave consent and that we were discussing it, and then here I am getting involved in that debate. I would like to say immediately that I have proposed an amendment to the already adopted amendment of the Commission concerning what MPs Miličević spoke about. And for what? In various ways, we understand this, adoption or existence or the absence of this text. And I have one specific and practical question. What about the recently adopted Law amending and supplementing the Law on Exporting Arms and Military Equipment, adopted under Article 105, in which the last member says this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of BiH" and will be published in the official votes of the entity and Brcko District. If we're going to publish some of these laws and we're not going to publish some of them, and it looks like we're going to do that because this is exactly what leads to one of the laws being published and we're not publishing others in the official texts of the entity, and what we did then with that mess. Just because someone doesn't, and I don't understand why it bothers the law to be published in the entity's ballots and why suddenly so much worry about the costs of the entity. How come we care so much about these costs in this item and not worry about many other items, not just about the costs of entities, but about these costs at all. That's why I think that Mr. Ćeman's campaign and others are bringing us into one unnecessarily position, and I'm afraid that there will continue to be reading the official texts of the entity, but that only those laws 26 that are dark will not be informed. And I'm afraid that's going to produce one entirely different effect of this that wants to be achieved by putting this part of the text out of the law. When it comes to Mr. Ćeman's amendments, I allow me to comment, of course, on this, the Club and my personal position on these amendments. And right at the beginning, let me say that we are prepared to uphold the law in the text adopted by the Komiija. So, I'm willing to give up my amendment even though it's not logical to give up on... if you take into account what I said but it's not a problem here in order to adopt this law I'm going to give up on my amendment, of course, with the request that Mr. Ćeman give up this, of his amendments and thus bring this job to an end. I don't think they're making any significant amendments to Mr. Ćeman, as I don't think mine is a significant amendment either, but I'm willing to give up. So, of the proposed 5 amendments that Mr. Ćeman has given us here, the second amendment seems to me the Commission has already adopted. And this is probably where this, unnecessarily, the Commission adopted that instead of the words of consultation with the Commission go with the text of the Commission's consent. That's how I have the Commission's report. And now you're proposing from the new text, yes, yes, okay office other words that means the second, third, fourth and fifth amendments of Mr. Ćeman are actually returning to the old text whether or not it means those of his amendments that haven't been adopted. And the first amendment is then actually returning whether it's like that to the old text this, the amendment. I would, then, once again, suggest what I did earlier for a clear reason, the tactical reason when we had already entered into the debate in another reading that I'm no longer sure it might have been wise to be running it today, given what Mr. Ćeman and I have said, but once we've already entered, let's end this debate with a positive result, or to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9476	I thank my colleague Novaković for his personal contribution to getting to this law, and I think we need to create an ever-increasing atmosphere to approach the law. But here comes Mr. Selim Bešlagić, and then Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. I'm not sorry, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Martin Raguž asked for 10 minutes ago. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9477	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, here's because we started to debate and since they're open not only would I say technical questions and repairs, but also some essential questions regarding this law, which we have debated on the Commission here in writing here, suggested to the House. I think it's necessary to say the following. With these amendments and the additions to the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers with this Commission report, I think that assumptions are being made with the strategy and conclusions that we adopted yesterday to round up a legal strategic approach at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with as we have said one of the most important issues, it is the return of people to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And precisely because of this importance and this law of amendment and supplementation, I think it is necessary to seriously consider the amendments made by the Commission and these amendments made by Mr 27 Ćeman, because they are not merely technical or that they concern only some repairs. They are in fact opening the possibility of an institutional framework, what the Commission has proposed. We've been through a lot of trouble, we've done a lot of convincing ourselves, but I think we've really come to a balance that the Council has proposed repairs and gives one round-off. Why do I say that? Whether the commission should appoint the Council of Ministers or the Presidency. In this relationship of forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this constitutional structure, with the role that the Council of Ministers has now played with a very express role of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which I strongly support, it is necessary before this to have one commission, or the Commission to which it will articulate the issues of return, in relation to all institutions, and it cannot exclude the responsibility of the presidency either, however, it is necessary and in a certain way the participation of lower structures of entities and others, and I believe that it is an optimal place and an optimal position and an optimal role for the Presidency, without diminishing the importance of the Council of Ministers, the ministry, giving it one framework to further work on the implementation of these strategies and policies. That's why I think absolutely everyone who thinks in that direction should remain on the presidency's appointment of this committee committee. The second thing is why it is important in this structure to deal with operational return issues, which is the ministry at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation ministry in Republika Srpska in the counties. Now we have a fund to pay back. We said no international community has such a more affirmative approach in terms of donor and other funds, a fund is created as an instrument through which domestic institutions will invest and finance one of the most important issues. Therefore, the Return Fund is given its strong and justified place in that structure and therefore it is necessary to make one balance between the Ministry of Human Rights, the Return Fund and that commission. It's a strategy, it's a policy, and it's an institutional structure. And I think it was a good, good amendment from the Commission to the Council's proposal to elect representatives of the three peoples in these three key positions. Because Mr. Ćeman's amendment says you can take care of that and that's not necessary. I agree, but here's what you do if you take the structure of who the ministers are now, so I have nothing against either one, and I support each of them, you see that the representatives of some nations are nowhere to be represented in that infrastructure. And why would it bother someone if we made this key institutional infrastructure balance, why would it bother someone, if we had already achieved one agreement about it within the framework. And as far as deciding this, be careful in the commission I think it's really a leftover possibility, so it's not a full consensus, it's desirable to be, if it's not two out of three, I think it opens up one space for constructive work in the commission. If we go to relativating and that criterion now, then it will really turn out that the law and amendments to the Refugees Act will lead to a key debate on how to decide. I don't think that's the point, they're quite, it should be quite different, creating legal and other assumptions that people are coming back and giving the possibility that everyone in it is participating. So, I advocate the adoption of the law today, I think that the amendments of the Commission are really constructive and that they would contribute that perhaps we are absorbing the law as a whole today so that the House of Peoples can do so and that we have the law. If the debate on these amendments opens, I'm afraid we're really going to get into the core issues. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9478	I would like to thank the Vice-President for his helpful suggestions, Mr. Bešlagić and Mr. Ćeman, and we would like to conclude the dissension.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9479	I'll be very brief, but I have to joke a little bit is not a problem with the different reading, and we have a problem with the different concept of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's the main reason why we do, but I don't want to go into these discussions, but please, the laws of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being published in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so please choose to transpose the entities if you want those laws. It's a basic rule, I have nothing to discuss, the state law is in the public messenger and what's most important is what I wanted to say, believe that the Commission has been working extremely hard on these things. We tried to agree with myself by accepting everything possible to get to what these amendments are called and, as my predecessors have said, I think there's no reason to repeat that this is a proposal that could lead to today's adoption of the law, noting that by following the issue of this law that is in practice we are looking for its additions and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9480	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. I think this dilemma we all have, in what way, because so far it's been a practice to publish it at the state level of the entity. Whoever wants the practice to change, let him define the conclusion, and we'll make a statement. Please don't from law to law make a circus in the state. So, so far it's been a practice. There are political options whose legitimacy I do not dispute to demand an amendment to the conclusion. The conclusion defines and do not make it a basic stumbling block in the laws. So, I'm not slow to launch an initiative, but I don't think there's any need in this way for us to change our practice. Thank you, Mr. Ćeman, and we would, but here I am asking Mr. Ćeman to contribute to what counterpart Novaković was saying that we have a statement about the law. We'll spend more time, but as the debate goes, we won't create a mood, and if I appreciate the effort you've put into the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9481	I think this is a contribution, Mr. Chairman. First, let me start with this law-publishing thing. I delivered the initiative about 9-10 months ago and explained why it's good and why this isn't so good at the end of the day. Furthermore, the inconsistencies of the legislator so far have been that even in some laws they themselves have proposed to publish only to the Official Journal of BiH and in some other proposals of the law, whether it is a full law or amendments and amendments to some laws, they have provided for this other option or obligation. Therefore, in practice there is a pattern and, of course, I could not intervene on today's law because it went according to Article 5. Otherwise, look at some of these, some of the previous cases I've always pointed to. But let's agree that's not the most important question. Here I agree, and they're not here for this politically motivated reason, but if you want purely legal and this, here's to say and the economic effects are not negligible be sure, but as far as I'm concerned, it's really not such an important question, because if it were, then I'd ask myself differently. 29 The second thing, you did not convince me that the argument that I am here specifically about certain things that are both legal and other nature that these amendments are not acceptable. But here's because my colleague Novaković said what he said, this one I'm willing to say, although I'm not willing to, but for the work' of getting to the text of this law today, to withdraw my amendments even though I'm not convinced that I'm making a particularly good move, but here's what I'm saying first, but here's why this environment is, or how some other say the atmospheres, I'm withdrawing the amendments, and I want the law to be adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9482	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is, that we are increasingly creating the necessary atmosphere to get to the law, in that sense as chairman, thanks to Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Novaković. I'm closing the debate on the law in the second reading. We're going to make a statement, because the pronouns pulled the amendments. Who is it, then, to adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in, in the second reading? Who's against it? Any abstentions? I am pleased to find that we unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you, all of you, for contributing today to bringing together the first and second readings and getting to the law. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Air Force, first reading, is proposed by the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 17th session adopted a motion for an emergency procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 4 September. The Commission found that there was a valid constitutional and legal basis and sent the draft law to the Competent Commission. The competent Commission and the Commission for Transport and Communications have received a report from the Commission and in this sense I am opening a debate on this law in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading on the proposal of this law. Who's in favor of adopting this law in our first reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that the proposal for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. 30 We would then conclude the ninth item of the agenda and move to the tenth point of the agenda, which is Ad.10. A report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the 2002 general elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina The Election Commission delivered the report on 4 September 2003. On the same day, the report was forwarded to all MPs. I'm opening a debate on this report. Does anyone have a permanent Electoral Commission? I'm sorry, I suggest that whenever there's no proposing that we take the agenda off-line and send a protocol note, it doesn't make sense. We have decided that we are constantly sitting that those whose position depends on us do not attend the session. So, do you agree to take this point off because there's no one to report? Who's up for it? So, we're not having a debate, it's going to be at one of the next sessions. Do you mind? Abstained, no. Thank you, we're moving on to Ad.11. The Council of Ministers provided the information to the emigrants of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 27 August 2003, which was forwarded to all MPs on the same day. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who wants to take part in the debate on this point. No, I'm opening a debate on who's answering? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting information, so we're not voting, we're getting information. There's no need to plead. So, we received information, she wasn't at the hearing. Moving to Ad.12. The election of a member of the Commission on Finance and Budget namely, gentlemen, I informed you that the extended College yesterday on my initiative accepted the initiative to get rid of my duties in the Finance and Budget Committee, and as a result of the preparation of the session when Parliament is constantly in session asking for greater engagement and would not want my engagement in that commission simply to lead to the fact that sometimes the Commission does not have a quorum or cannot service the work of this Parliament. In this regard, I ask you to accept, above all, my resolution in that committee and accept, on a proposal from the extended College, that Mr Nikola Kragulj be a member of the Commission and chair the committee. 31 We vote first, therefore, on my resolution in that commission. Who's for Nikola Špirić to get rid of the memberships in the Commission? Thank you very much, would you mind? No, thank you. We are now voting on who is in favour of being a member of the Commission, Mr Nikola Kragulj, and chairing the Commission. Do you mind? Abstained, no. Thank you very much, unanimously, Mr. Kragulj, for his role as Chairman, President of the Finance and Budget Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how we got to the thirteenth agenda, Ad.13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on Technical, Economic and Financial and Humanitarian Co-operation. I'm opening a debate about this ratification. Who's answering for a word? I was expecting a long and extensive debate, no one answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in favor of ratifying this agreement? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I thank you, so we ratified the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on Technical, Economic and Financial and Humanitarian Co-operation. We're going over ladies and gentlemen to the 14th item of the agenda, so please send me these two points of the agenda, just excuse me a little bit, so please, Ad.14. Information from the Investigative Commission on the involvement of our agents in the preparation of the "state impact" of the cause of chaos, bombings and intimidation, so I'm opening the debate. Before the others take part in the breakup, please say a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9483	Of course, this chairman Nikola Špirić will inform you about what the Commission has done on this matter so far. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9484	Ladies and gentlemen, as you yourself know at the 18th session, it is supported by the conclusion that an investigative committee is being formed, composed of Mr. Martin Raguž, Mr. Šefik Džaferović and Nikola Špirić. Well, then, let the College be that investigative commission. We held a meeting of the Commission. We have therefore met the authorities, with the conclusion of Parliament on the composition of the Commission and on what the Commission intends to do and in this sense I would like to inform you that after the first session, we have sent a letter to the members of the Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of the Council of Ministers, to provide us with all the information they have, therefore, with regard to these allegations of state coup preparations, various intimidations and other activities that have been the subject of public attention and parliamentary debate in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that letter, we asked that these authorities inform us within 7 days to send us information that they have. I regret to say that here today goes the seventh day, we haven't received any information, we haven't received a single sentence to inform this house again, because it concludes that we are obliged to inform the House which will then inform the public and take a position on the further way of working this extraordinary commission. But here's all I can say about what we've done, so we're as a commission expecting to get the necessary information to inform the Parliamentary Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the content of this information. So once again, we haven't received any information, not a single sentence concerning our request. Thank you very much. Is there any need for after this report, I don't think there's any need to call the debate, because we're waiting for the materials, we're going to inform Parliament. If Parliament agrees with the conclusion that we send the emergency again, I think it could be the only conclusion that the Commission again sends the emergency to the competent institutions to deliver the information, because it is not good for the investigative parliamentary commission, it would in itself, if there is no feedback towards the Investigation Commission, be a much greater scandal than it has been, but I believe that the competent institutions will be responsible for Parliament and send the information. So, if you agree with the conclusion that we're sending an emergency, Mr. Lagundžija has asked for it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9485	The esteemed colleagues, the chairman, and without the House's conclusion, it's quite logical that you'll be looking for an emergency but there's no reason not to ask for an emergency. However, just to remind you that we are the highest House in this country who has concluded that today we will have this information that we do not have because disrespect has been shown not to you as a Commission but also to this home. That's why I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, that we don't make a farce out of this so that every session we start by re-puting this agenda and finding out what you've been up to, and looking for new appointments. The purpose was and last time we agreed not to create a real parliamentary commission in the way that we should do it as a compromise that we did not do it last time, we said that at today's session we would get information based on which we would eventually access a serious Parlamintary commission that requires the import of order in this area and this is no longer about a coup because it is perfectly clear that it is a stupid structure that was made here, but it is about 33 once the law is introduced in the whole area concerning the work of intelligence services and playing with the reputation of this country in different ways. By violating European conventions on human rights and freedoms, and hence the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why Mr President would ask by respecting your conclusion that we agree here today that we have this item of the agenda for the next session of Parliament and that you as the Commission prepare yourselves for us or for information, or that we are no longer looking for information in such a way, because this is how we are discussing this Parliament as a whole, but that we should then act in a different way than any Parliament in the world that I do not need to talk about now, because there is no reason not to believe that this inseriousness will be stopped.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9486	I thank Dr. Lagundžija, who continues to answer the word? Mr. Gligorić. I would really ask that if we could not expand the debate today, but simply agree with this conclusion to send an emergency and agree with what counterpart Lagundžija says that for the next session, we as the Commission have received a written clue, we have not received Parliament's position on this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9487	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in a way we're going with some peaceable attitude towards the organs that we've asked to provide us with certain data, and right at the beginning we said that we're not some important organ, because we can do it anyway. You have both MPs and political parties by the highest intelligence service that, from newspapers or otherwise, create a situation in which one Parliament comes into a phase of the farce. And that's why I think we need to be more determined about it, let's accept it and be up until the next session, but in that case you of the College keep the dignity of this Parliament, you have to find and in the end we have concluded a new effort that will allow you to come here with the input information that we can discuss. Well, you saw the Watergate affair. They form, they call it an investigative committee, and there is no president of the United States who has to resign in one such country. I am not going to say here that this is the kind of level of problem that we have received within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it certainly means that someone should deliver this information to Parliament. I think that the investigative actions, the investigative committee at Parliament level, should be even more so that we have to do this institute and how to get serious so that we can be that factor here. Otherwise, here MPs will only be figures of their political leaders and bosses at the level of the executive authority who can treat Parliament in the way they are now. Here you have to understand that you and together are, in fact, the highest body to choose and the Council of Ministers and Institutions within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if we don't understand that, then we will be someone who is a figure here, and make it public to let the public know that we are not allowed to do anything to our bosses in the executive government and they can be distracted with Parlamnta, that they only need this parliament until they strengthen their positions so that they can re-prove in this Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a way that they treat Parliament with disrespect. We must address this not only because of this problem, ngo, because of one principle that institutions in this country must be respected in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Parliament is the highest institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All must, when Parliament asks for something to be subordinated and to be their priority in their work, and not 34 can go on a journey or anywhere without having previously given information if Parliament asks them to. Otherwise, we're just a laughing matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9488	I thank Mr. Gligorić. I'm closing the hearing, ladies and gentlemen. Please don't need to today, I'd be begging here just to strengthen this conclusion. Who's to ask that as Parliament's emergency to deliver information and yes. So that Parliament supports the Commission to send an emergency to ask the competent institutions for the necessary documents so that the Commission can inform Parliament at the next session. Well, it'll be a signal for Parliament again. Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? No, thank you for unanimously supporting this conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to conclude the 19th regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Excuse me. Excuse me, we're moving on to Ad.15. Report by the Council of Ministers on the initiative and activities so far on the construction of the Corridor V-c highway. I guess I was right because there's no one from the Council of Ministers, I've been taking care of empty benches on the right hand side to let you know that we ended up unfortunately with this debate in this way. It was a little comical, but here's the thing. I don't know which way we can conduct the debate if we're not anyone's, here's Mr. Gligorić's proposal to explain. Please exclude the day-to-day propagator.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9489	To try to get out of this situation, I suggest, although also in the draft agenda and later as we adopt it, it clearly states that in written form, a report on all the activities related to the construction of the Corridor Vc highway and I would ask the College to ensure from that side that the report from the Ministry and the Council of Ministers that we said delivery in written form and that we are then having a debate because I simply got more information from Bosmal, people leased business space on the radio in the press and I got more information than from the Council of Ministers that we chose here. According to this, it is perfectly normal for the Council of Ministers to submit a written report in this direction and then we will have a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9490	Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment, please. There is already a need for debate. We have here a present representative of the Council of Ministers, so we have a gentleman, we have Mr. Ivo Mir Jović who called for the discussion and I think that days, please I wanted to make 35 suggestions that the conclusion after this, since there is no Secretary-General, there is no Council of Ministers chairman, it would not be good for the state parliament to do more harm than good, to be one conclusion and that the House of Representatives is seeking at the first forthcoming meeting of the Council of Ministers to submit a written report on all the activities so far related to this. That Parliament is informed in time that MPs will read and believe then that there will be a constructive debate, that perhaps there will be no debate. Who agrees with this conclusion, but yes, please, I will not challenge anyone's right to say so. I thought I'd suggest something that I appreciated was useful, not to argue that this would be useful too. So, the word Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Lagundžija and then we also have a request from the Council of Ministers to speak as you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9491	I thank Mr. President and I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and here at the end of today's session we came to a point where someone already knew they weren't going to discuss it today, and then we put it on the agenda. That something rotted in the state of Denmark is more than obvious. That there's a move of colorful ordnance, naughty for this people, it's clear, that the blurry actions behind the back are working and that's clear. That is why today, a European and modern approach to amending the law has not passed in Parliament to reach the best performer, and whoever supports it loves Bosnia and Herzegovina because maintaining the independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European-oriented Bosnia and Herzegovina, is today due to show this. And here's this point today we see where we're on fire. There are murky acts going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9492	I thank Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, the replica has Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Zlatko Lagundžija's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9493	kolega. Jović, legally legal when a document, law, normative act is made, which is more likely to implement a procedure, can even be considered to be a better law or act. The law, I didn't want to discuss this law for the simple reason I came from the next fact. The law proposed to change contains as a possibility to conduct a tender. But this same law contains only as the possibility and other option or option of which it is concerned. Therefore, no one is voting with this vote, and neither am I for the proposal of the law of a colleague who is next to you, and I didn't want to say that it was necessary to throw out the law as a possibility, but actually to remain both as a possibility and believe that it is also European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9494	I thank Mr. Ćeman, Mr. Dr. Zlatko Lagundžija. And I ask you to see what the matter is, we ask that we do not bring the position of the Council of Ministers that, with the full respect of my friend, a colleague who is there if there is no written information, if today 36 we are going to be dealing with someone, so the promoter asked for written information. We can bridge this until the next session. We are really asking the Council of Ministers for the written text for all the activities they have been following, but it is not good to say this, it is almost the MPs have to get on the bench so they don't look for every time on the agenda. This will avoid continuing demands for the agenda and MPs will be informed. Please make a contribution. That's my suggestion, I don't argue that you all answer the word. But here's because you have material that we don't have, you know MPs are still a much more serious thing in this country that must have on the table what you have in order to discuss. There's a word, here's Mr. Džaferović, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9495	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when this item of the agenda was proposed this morning I joked about sitting there when it was talking about what the agenda would be, so I said in a joke I suggest that it be both the first and last item of the agenda of this session today, because I was counting on it to be this long time, the duration of the session, and not to ask for any information again. We once wanted to say this, so we received information once from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and then again at the next session, the information requested at the next session and then Parliament did not accept the proposal, and today the information was requested again, so Parliament accepted the proposal. In order to remove the need for debate in Parliament once more about when we will receive information, what information we will receive, I have no objection to us discussing all issues in Parliament, but I think it is this proposal that today Parliament should ask the Council of Ministers to provide us with information in written form that we will get it, therefore, in time and then hold a debate after we have received this information in writing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9496	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Is there anyone else who wants to? Replica, Mr. Andrić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9497	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I apologize, you probably didn't notice me, I was reporting after Mr. Ćeaman's speech. I wanted to replicate what he said. He literally opened a debate about a law we unfortunately didn't adopt today. Instead of opening the debate when it was the agenda point, he opened it now. From this I would like to replicate, or to say to him, that in normal civilized countries this does not even need to be built into the law, but it is understood that this is the only time, a public tender, a public tender for all public investment works, concessions and everything else. We are trying to get in here, or to pass laws that will oblige all state institutions, that in the course of the procurement, I do not know the value of the funds over 3,000 Marks have to go to a public competition, and here we are fighting means, for a whole other rule, that someone can file concessions of unlimited value to someone in some other way. 37 Therefore, I think we sent a very ugly message today. My intention was only that every concession award, regardless of which initiative came from the state or a self-initiative offer, would have to go to a public competition. I don't see anything wrong with that. Unfortunately, the law didn't break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9498	Thank you, colleague Andrić. I haven't, please, taken anyone's right or taken anyone to speak to, but please let us stick to the agenda. This is the point that was absorbed as the previous point. Here's the replica Mr. Bešlagić but let's stick to the one we don't have the information so we can conduct the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9499	evoga we are again trying to be a parliament, someone is not trying to be a parliament. Secondly, I ask all MPs not unless your proposal is adopted that all other opponents are Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about one reason we discussed it last time, and I said I was up for the tender. But allow and grant concessions without a tender means this Parliament gets information. Therefore, no one contests this House, consent, and thus no one contests this Parliament and I mean that at this point, the blurry shops around the VC highway are not just from what the government has done. Well, you in Mostar have a CV Highway Construction Company. So why can't this parliament be the biggest opponent or friend of that time cv. So don't get into any details, because it's all speculation now. The information this parliament must receive is to ask why Bosmal is today calling on citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pool funds to build a CV highway when he has not received a concession. So please, you're right that we have to get this information and let's see here after this I don't see why a representative of the Ministry who isn't in charge of this area comes out to me a story when everything I've read through the paper is going to tell. And there's no information that he could make a decision on this CV. So I'd like to ask, I want to see the ministar after all. I hočati to see the ministar, I want the Prime Minister, I have the right to do it as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9500	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Just a moment, please, a moment, a replica. The replica, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9501	I'm sorry, it's not a replica. It's a new proposal. It's about this agenda again. I suggested this one, and I'm staying with that 38.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9502	Please, Mr. Gligorić, please, the Rules of Procedure are valid for all of us. Either it's a replica or it's not a replica, I won't ban you from saying what you want to say. Don't be here, this is a serious Parliament to play cat and mouse, so if it's a call to replica, then say what's wrong, if you're looking for a word for discussion you'll get and re-discuss, it's not at all controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9503	You didn't hear me chairing, but I want to drug this. People when they see a problem trying to solve it, and that's normal. We have said in this House that we have a problem with the Council of Ministers following us, to follow this parliament. We've made a decision that we're in a permanent session. And what it means for the executive power that has to work twice as hard to follow us, and therefore I propose and I would ask you to declare this proposal, that the Council of Ministers attends the meetings of the House of Representatives, if necessary, and at the request of the House of Representatives or of the agenda that is current, to hold their session and inform this Parliament at the same time during the day. I find it quite normal that the Council of Ministers should follow this Parliament, if we want to say Parliament is an authority above the Council of Ministers, if this is what the Council of Ministers and these MPs want, we will have such coordination, and we will not come into one situation as we have found ourselves today regarding this point both tomorrow and tomorrow for the second and third and so on. Therefore, if we want to make relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina between the institutions, then the Council of Ministers will sit here and when we tell them we're taking a half-hour break, he will enter into office in half an hour and the chairman will come out here. If you want a normal country, if you want a circus, we have a circus, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9504	Thank you, just a little please, just a little bit, we're going back to what I said at the beginning. We've never had written information before. We had Mr. Terzić's statement as chairman, we had Mr. Dokić as minister. The only conclusion, believe me, that can help us to be informed, is that we are asking the Council of Ministers to deliver written information to Parliament regarding all these activities relevant to the Corridor Vc and to put it on the next session, but we are asking well written information to make it a part of the agenda. MPs can argue like this we're entering into something that won't help anyone. Please, just so we don't get into replicas right now, I'm not going to, but if we can get to the bottom of this, we can figure it out. No, no, please, please. I'm not just gonna talk the way I think I should, because I'm running this session. Mr. Lagundzija, you've had five times I've yawned if you will, only I don't know when you think it's the best time for you to perform, if you think this is it, go ahead. So come on, please. Not the Council of Ministers, please, and there's Mr. Novaković in business, please just a little Dr. Lagundžij if it's a business intervention to see if we don't break the Rules of Procedure. Here's the deal. That's why there's a lot. Sorry, we're just gonna bring this down in the best possible way. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9505	I really can't understand it, and it looks like we can work here, and that's my remark and intervention. Be careful, the promoter is asking for written information. And why are we discussing it when whoever suggested the agenda point said what he wanted and we should vote on it and finish the story, not open the debate. Look, if the promoter wants to have a debate, let's just open up the debate, and the man said he was looking for written information, came out here, said he's looking for written information, and we're putting him to the vote. The story's over. And being in a permanent session so we need the Council of Ministers with us to sit here all the time and watch each other, that's the second question, I'm talking about the first proposal this one when the agenda point is proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9506	Thanks to my colleague, Novaković, there's not much business here, but it's okay. Here you go, Dr. Lagundžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9507	The esteemed chairman, the correctness of the work, I gave up my discussion, the time and place for discussion because I realized that in front of the Council of Ministers we would have an indication, and that is why you said if the Council of Ministers were to be manifested, I would wait for him to say something, because according to the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, he has the right to intervene every time, and it would be good for us to have someone in front of the Council of Ministers as much as anything on this subject. The previous point was the slap on Parliament's earlier point, the fact that your Commission of Parliament has not received any haber, the letter nothing or postcard of anyone, is nothing more than a slap on Parliament. We've just gotten too close on this dot we've got a slap on the other cheek of the same Council of Ministers. And I would therefore ask, I will no longer say for the sake of Parliament's dignity but because everyone in this room has spoken repeatedly about how the V-c mega project and project is of interest to all the citizens of this country and to the state as a whole, and because of the relationship to this project, I would ask you not to ask the Council of Ministers to give us written information for the next session. My proposal is simply to preserve at least a little of our own dignity, to have a fine end to the session and to continue this session when it is a new session, and to simply stand for ourselves, for the sake of our own self, for the sake of Parliament's dignity, for the importance of this, that the Council of Ministers prepare us information at the conclusion of this Parliament. To deliver that information to us and to the next term when you are in a permanent session so I don't understand the concept of the next session, but the office. So, to continue this session, to end this session the next time we meet and end this part of the agenda, so that we no longer receive slaps from the people we set up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9508	I thank Dr. Lagundžija, is there anyone else who can answer the word? Mr. Sead Avdić, please. I'd like to ask you to bring the debate to an end. I'm just asking my colleagues to listen to each other. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9509	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been trying to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9510	Please, if you need a break, ask for a break let us listen to the end of the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9511	Not to be guided by this debate, but the real issue for Parliament, Bosnia and Hecegovina, is next. If one MP from the ruling parliamentary majority of the BH Parliament says further murky actions continue for the power he has chosen, in which ministers take part on behalf of the party, then that already concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we do not have a parliamentary majority, today the Council of Ministers has no confidence in this Parliament and that is the real question, that is the fundamental question. Whether Bosnia and Herzegovina has a parliamentary majority that works. Whether the parties have agreed, whether there is a political platform, which is what this country is working on and functioning on behalf of the coalition, how such imbalances can be born, laws fall, and we simply have a coalition or parliamentary majority. It is an essential issue for the Bosnian Herzegovina public, for this parliament and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9512	I thank my colleague Avdić. The Republic is owned by Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9513	Well, for God's sake, brother, we talk about Europe all the time, the diversity of opinions. The monolithity is behind the back, the monolithity has passed. We must face each other, by arguing against each other and by making quality laws that will have a future, and not by passing today, the law changes it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9514	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Reprika Mr. Sead Avdić. No, I don't mean you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9515	Dear fellow MPs, there is a simple possibility that through ministers operating in the Council of Ministers, it will affect Bosnia and Herzegovina's policy-making. He's looking and asking here BH Parliament, so painful, so that's sad. On behalf of the party, the minister and council of ministers are now trying to ask the BH Parliament, instead of asking its minister the real question of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9516	I thank Mr. Avdić. Replica Ivo Miro Jović. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9517	I've had a lot of opportunities to hear, but what I thought someone could interpret, I don't believe.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-24-0.u9518	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for bringing us in, please close with the replicas of the dot, if there is anyone to answer the word. No, I'm closing the argument. This is where we heard two suggestions. The first proposal I have defined to conclude is to make a commitment to the Council of Ministers to deliver for the first time written information that will be the subject of our debate at the next session. And it's the second conclusion of Mr. Lagundžija that we interrupt the session and continue the next time we get that information. I'm giving the vote. So who's to conclude first, that we're looking for information that's going to be the subject of attention? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that this conclusion has been accepted and that there is no need to put another conclusion to the vote. Please allow me to conduct the session. I appreciate all the conclusions. This adoption has delegated a second conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the 19th regular session of the Council of Representatives, please just a moment to inform you, so let me inform you of the third plenary session. The extended College has taken the decision that the Plenary Session, just a little bit Mr. Gligorić, we have concluded this item on the agenda. We finished our 19th session and now we are, please I have a feeling there's someone here who just listens to themselves, and that's not good. Mr Gligorić, please, I am now under the obligation to inform you as chairman of the third plenary session of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is scheduled under the Decision of the extended College of 2 October. The theme of this plenary session is the address of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Koks, one small break and the address of Mr Holbruk and Mr Kušner. You will receive calls, I ask the MPs to respond or attend that plenary session. I hope there will be useful things for what is the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you'll get all the information you need on time, but I'm just informing you to book that day for the plenary session. Thank you very much. End of session at 13:20 p.m.
