ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1290	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and I welcome you all to the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A full number of delegates from the House of Nations are present at the session, and whether 5 delegates from the Serbian Naord, 5 delegates from the Croatian people and 5 delegates from the Bosniak people are present. For the 13th session, I suggest the next agenda. 1. Answers to Legislative Issues and Delegative Issues 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples 3. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the High Court Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 4. Request for consideration of the proposal for a law on subsequent amendments and additions to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 6. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations - Proposer of the Council of Ministers 7. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations - Proposer of the Council of Ministers 8. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations - Proposer of the Council of Ministers 9. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations - Proposer of Council of Ministers 2 10. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 11. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of Election Commission 12. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 13. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 14. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 15. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 16. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 17. Proposal for amendments to the budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for 2003, first reading - Proposer of the BiH Presidency 18. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution and International Obligations for 2003, first reading - Proposer of the BiH Presidency 19. Proposal for the BiH Air Force Act, second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 20. Proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications in Higher Education in the European region - Proposer of the BiH Presidency 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Co-operation in Education and Science – Proposed by the BiH Presidency 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece on Co-operation in Culture, Education and Science - Proposed by the BiH Presidency 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Co-operation in Education, Science and Culture - Proposed by the BiH Presidency 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Cultural, Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France - Proposed by the BiH Presidency 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Scientific and Technological Co-operation - Proposed by BiH Presidency 3 27. Giving consent to ratifications of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cultural, Educational and Sports Cooperation - Proposed by the BiH Presidency 28. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Netherlands on international road transport - Proposer of the BiH Presidency 29. Giving consent to ratification of the basic agreement on co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain - Proposed by the BiH Presidency 30. Giving consent to the cancellation of the bilateral Trade and Economic Relations Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary - Proposed by the BiH Presidency 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on Technical, Economic, Financial and Humanitarian Cooperation – Proposed by the BiH Presidency 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Moldova on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investment-proposed BiH Presidency 33. Council of Ministers' report on the initiative and activities so far in the construction of the Corridor V-c 34 highway. Information on emigration - Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees 35. Information on the implementation of the project “CIPS” 36. A report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission on the implementation of the 2002 General Elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina 37. The resolution of Tomislav Lim “Let's buy our own home” would have completed the agenda that is quite abundant. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering their word? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1292	I propose that we add to today's agenda a point in order that would be called a conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the Agency for Information and Protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Reason, you know that for some time now, the committees of both homes have been formed, which are working on amendments to the Rules of Procedure. These commissions have done a significant part of the job and, among other things, have agreed on the number of joint commissions, the structure of the joint commissions and how to decide on these commissions as the supervision of these commissions. But to the joint commissions as one of the major commissions, I would single out the Commission for Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the Information and Protection Agency for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The making of Rules of Procedure will take some time. At this point, we are facing the introduction of two extremely significant reform laws in the process. The Defence Act, the Intelligence Service Act, which is both in the jurisdiction of this Joint Commission. 4 For these reasons, I consider that, given that all the procedures for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure have been ensured, the nature of the structure of the Commission and the nature of the Commission, in order to be extremely rational and useful for this Commission to be formed, not waiting for all procedures for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure to be completed, in order for the Commission, of course, after the same decision and at the House of Representatives, to be included in the examination of these laws, the Law on Defence, the Law on Intelligence, and thus to contribute to the completion of these transactions within the specified time limit, and it is known that 16 December, one of the dates is very important for the adoption of these objectives and tasks on the way towards Bosnia and Herzegovina's Partnership for Peace. In addition, the establishment of this joint commission would be one of the significant conditions for the adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Partnership for Peace, which is parliamentary control of the security sector and I think that by adopting this conclusion, we would send a very strong message that concrete works are also for our statements on reform projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1293	Thank you, we heard Mr. Genjac's suggestion. Is there anyone else to answer for? Is there anyone else to report on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative, or a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, makes sense, but on one condition. As it is a joint commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe it was necessary to carry out certain consultations with the College of the House of Representatives, and to the extent that there is will and mood to reach this same conclusion at the House of Representatives. I smatrmti this to have full meaning, and I would personally support this conclusion. However, unless there is a political will, that the same conclusion is reached at the House of Representatives, unfortunately this initiative, or the idea will not be realised, will not make any sense, as it is a proposal for the establishment of a temporary joint commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I think it would be good if this agenda item were found somewhere near the end of the agenda. I'm not going to say that it's the last one or that it's definitely somewhere behind the 30th so that people's clubs have a chance to make a concrete statement about this in terms of the proposal of the members of this committee. I think of everything Mr Genjac said, therefore, there is an agreement between members of the temporary commissions of one and the other home of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the construction and addition of the Rules of Procedure of these two homes, the number of structures has been established. So it's 12, 6 plus 6 etc. We have a lot of elements for this, provided I repeat, provided this same happens, that a commission like this is formed from the House of Representatives. 5 So I specifically suggest that this item of the agenda enters as a point but, to be somewhere behind the 30th agenda, so that we can in one of the breaks that will follow have consultations in clubs and go with a proposal of people, or members of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1295	Thank you very much. I have a question for Mr. Genjac. Is it to vote on this, to try to find a compromise between the proposal and Jukic, to say that we place this item on the agenda in 33rd place? After these approvals for ratifications, and before these reports by the Council of Ministers, let me put that item on the agenda, and that representatives, respectively, and that the clubs in the break would have the opportunity to think about this and whether it is on the agenda that the clubs have views. Do we agree with that, Mr. Genjac? Can it go like that?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1296	Of course, I also suggested that this would be the last item of the agenda, for understandable reasons, and it is true that this conclusion only has power and meaning if it was adopted at the House of Representatives, I am aware of that fact. I suggest, however, that in the House of Peoples all that has been put into effect on both committees of both homes, we can resolve and actually insist on the fact that in this case, the House of Peoples is the one that drives the initiative, why not. Why wouldn't the House of People draw a conclusion that this, in some way, would be a message to the House of Representatives to draw the same conclusion, because I see absolutely no reason not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1297	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here is a dear colleague, if you agree, I will suggest that, as a point of 20 and 33 of the agenda, the establishment of a Joint Commission on Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina be concluded. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Thank you very much. Let's hear the results of this, and who's sorry, who's against it? So we have the results of the vote, 13 for, 1 abstention and 1 against. And we agreed to have a new agenda on the establishment of a common security commission. Any other objections to the agenda? Thank you very much. 6 So let's vote on the agenda. Who's for the proposed agenda? Thank you very much. So, we unanimously adopted the agenda. Dear colleagues, I think this is a very large and very long agenda. I hope that we will work quickly, and that we will work constructively and most likely end this session today without further ado, and end all the points of the agenda. Given that the agenda is large, and I suggest that I take a break from this sitting somewhere at 14:00 hours, and in that break those who have announced that they wish to visit the first president of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Alija Izetbegović, will be able to use it and go to that visit to the mesar. This is true if you gentlemen know from the means of public information, that all those who wish to go to visit Mr. Alije Izetbegović's mesar at 2:00 will leave. Thank you, and I now want to continue this session on the agenda as agreed. So we're moving on to the agenda. The first item of the agenda is Ad. 1. Answers to the delegates' questions Do we have answers and do we please, therefore, not to these delegates' questions, our delegates' questions were not answered. Is there any question of delegates? Here you go. Here's Mr. Goram Nelojevic to the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1298	A greeting to all guests and colleagues, one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitments to the Council of Europe, is also a report on the position of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I know, this report has not been drawn up, has not been delivered to the Council of Europe. So, as a member of the permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am concerned about this and I am asking the competent ministry, or the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, when they will do and deliver the report to the Council of Europe, so that it will not be one of the brakes on the Euro-Atlantic integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1299	Thank you very much. Any word from anyone else? With Legislative questions. So we're done with this agenda point. ________: Can I ask the question to get an answer? 7 Come out here and say it, be nice, sir. I'd ask my colleague to come out and say it for a stenogram. That it is, and I agree with the fact that it should be said and that after this we must direct it
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, here I was about to say that one repugnant attitude we have, and more colleagues may say that since the constitution of this house, we have become a series of parliamentary questions we have not received answers to. And to insist on two three times, and I want to say publicly from this pay phone that there's no need to question some who are deaf, some who won't get to the sessions of our home, and should, in this direction, Mr. President, take a bit of a firmer stance in some future period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1302	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. Here I am, Mr. Filipović still.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1303	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen and gentlemen, I would like to initiate a question that has already received this much space in our media and with justification. I would like to initiate an urgent approach to resolving the status issues of the secretary of this House, Secretary of State, and Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly. Home Secretary and Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly were appointed in the spring of 2000. It was an opportunity according to the information I provided somewhere in half of their term of office, after making a decision on the organisation of the secretariat. The term of office ended at the end of 2000, after the General Elections for the House of Representatives, or in March 2001, when this house was established. There has never been a renaming or appointment of new secretaries in the 2000 to 2002 term of office. And you, our secretaries have been in one position for a long time. Now take what it is since 2000 we are already at the end of 2003. It is an unforgivable, irresponsible responsibility for those who are responsible for setting them up. I would ask that the issue be resolved, as at the College of our House for our Secretary, and that the College of Both Homes be initiated to resolve the matter of the Secretary of Joint Service. No secretary general. Such a uniform place by decision, the organization of the secretariat does not exist, it is a false representation, it is a manipulation of this, with those who do not know enough the structure of our professional services in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1304	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Sir, may I answer to Mr Filipović Ilija, I must now inform my colleagues that on the 6th of next month whether the College and the point around both homes is whether, and the agenda point that treats this matter spoken of by Mr Filipović. I must say that there have been previous initiatives from other committees such as this Commission on Trade Relations, such as the Administrative Commission and there have been personal requests and we have agreed today that we will discuss this issue at the next session of the College. Seeking a solution and certainly making proposals to this House and Parliament's Assembly to resolve this. We understand that the situation is exactly what Mr Filipović said. And I, I consider it a major failure of the entire Parliament. Thank you, I hope, Mr Filipović, that this and this initiative were also the answer and the results of all that you will see after the 6th of next month. The college will come out with a proposal. Thank you very much. Do we have any further questions? Well, I'd like to finish it, and I'd like to ask you nicely. Thank you very much, I think we've exhausted this agenda point and I'm begging you, here we go to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there are no debaters. Who's in favor of adopting the minutes from the 12th session? We find that the minutes of the 12th session were unanimously adopted. Third item of the Ad agenda. 3. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the High Court Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, on a provisional basis, has been declared by the High Representative, published in Glasnik 26/02. Here you are, in accordance with Article 102(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House. The House shall decide on a request for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. So, can we adopt that, may we agree to consider this law under Article 100, please, a request to consider the Proposal for a Law on the High Court Prosecutor's Council. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? One. Who's against it? There's no one there. So we agreed to consider this law as an emergency. 9 Now, here we go immediately to discuss this law, there is a debate by procedure we need to open the debate. So, who is it for, that the law, that this Law on the High Court and the Prosecutor's Office and the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina is adopted? Thank you very much. So unanimous. Fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Request for consideration of the proposal for a law on subsequent amendments and additions to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, is also the law of the High Representative. Who is it that this law is being considered in accordance with our 100th Rules of Procedure? Who's in? Thank you very much. 14 and one abstention. I'm opening a debate about the law. Is there a discussion? No, thank you very much. We're passing a law when it's up to the law? Unanimously, thank you very much. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, was also passed, the High Representative came. Who is it, that the law is considered by an emergency procedure, or by Article 100? Thank you very much. When he did, then, adopt 1, 14, 1. So we have, we've adopted that the law is being considered by an emergency procedure. I'm putting the law under discussion. Who's calling for a discussion? As far as I can tell, no one's here. I'm putting the law on the line. It's unanimous, so the law was unanimously passed. Six-ten Ads. Six. A request for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, is also the law of the High Representative. I suggest we vote on who's in favour, that the law be passed by emergency procedure? Who's in? 14, 1 Thank you very much. I'm putting the law under discussion. Are there any debaters? Thank you very much. I'm putting a vote on the adoption of the law. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Seven Ad. Seven. The motion for a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, also provisionally adopted the High Representative. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in favour of this law being passed by an emergency procedure? 14, 1 thank you very much. I'm putting the law on the table. Any objections to the law? Is anyone answering for the discussion? Thank you very much. Who is it to adopt the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Unanimity. Thank you very much, colleagues. The eighth item of the agenda is Ad. 8. Review of the request, a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The law also passed by the High Representative, and the Council of Ministers' proposal proposes that the law be passed by emergency procedure. 11 Who is it for this law to be passed by emergency procedure? So we voted 14, 1, 1 abstention. I'm putting the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecution Act under discussion. I do this 8th point so you don't get confused with what, you might change your mind. So there's no discussion of the law. I'm putting the law up for adoption. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Point nine, Ad. Nine. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, the Law is temporary, this law is temporary. It was brought by the High Representative. Who is it that this law is passed by emergency procedure? It's 14, 1. So we've adopted that the law is passed by emergency procedure. I am putting into debate the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's calling for a discussion? I'm putting the law up for adoption. Who's in? So the law was unanimously passed. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. I want to inform the House today that we, that this home, the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina has actually fulfilled the two laws that have been passed by the High Representative and that we have agreed at one of the previous sessions that we will hurry to pass these provisional laws as soon as possible. We are, therefore, at the end of the realization of our decision and we think that at the next, one of the next sessions that will be quick, we will also adopt these two remaining laws. So, in some ways, we won't have any more provisional laws passed by the High Representative. Which means we have one obligation to make sure that everything we don't like in the previous laws we can change, we can look for its changes and supplement it and bring it into one normal work. Thank you very much. And here are 12 requests to consider the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Association and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 100. The rules of procedure of the House of Peoples, is proposed by the Council of Ministers. This is not a temporary law, and here I propose, that is to say, on the proposal does this House agree that this law is being debated by an urgent procedure? Who's in? Who's being held back again? It's 14, 1. Thank you very much. So we've made a decision to make this law by emergency procedure. I'm putting the law under discussion. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Grubišić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1305	I reported that about this series of laws that we passed and about this law. I am probably sharing the discomfort of my MPs, or fellow delegates present here in the O.R., because of the fact that a large number of very significant laws have been passed by an urgent procedure without debate. Of course, it is known to us and to the public that it is likely that the laws needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have been declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative, and which, in order to be able to discuss them, should be amended in order to be adopted in the form in which they are declared. In this way, they become the property of this Parliamentary Assembly, which means that the Parliamentary Assembly can act on these laws afterwards to enter and repair, etc. I want us all never to get into this situation again to adopt six or seven very significant laws because they've been declared and we're in a situation where we don't say a word about these laws. I think there's a guess that's how it happens and it doesn't happen again. In this regard, in order to know, however, why there is no big debate on this law proposed by the Council of Ministers, it is a law proposed by the Law amending the laws on associations and foundations. The law contains only two members. And this is an intervention to the law only in the sense that the words of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications are replaced by the words of the Ministry of Justice. This is the logical consequence of changing the structure of the Council of Ministers and amending the laws on ministries. 13 All the essence of the law is that and, of course, the law has more technical, technical- administrative I would say important, to bring the existing structure of the Council of Ministers into line and the existing names. For that reason, I believe that I will not have the need for any greater debate, and of course I, like all my colleagues, believe, will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1306	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac, I owe an apology to Mr. Grubišić, who is here from the Council of Ministers, and I would ask if he has any further explanations to say or not. Thank you very much. There's no need. I, no one really apologizes to this, thank you very much. Here we have heard Mr. Genjac's discussion. Is anyone else answering for the discussion? Thank you very much. I put the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the vote. Who's up for the law? Unanimity. Thank you very much. So we unanimously passed this law. You've been restrained. Eleventh agenda, Ad. 11. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Election Commission So, will you, I'll ask you first, if we're going to discuss whether this law should be put to the vote, or whether we're going to take an emergency procedure. Here you go, if there's any discussion, please. Dr. Radovanović called for a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1307	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian People's Delegates Club considers that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law should be adopted in accordance with Article 99, i.e. in a shortened procedure, with the possibility of amendments to these amendments. We believe that the proposed solution is not bad but that the amendment's action could be improved, so we suggest that these changes be made in accordance with Article 99. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1308	Thank you very much, Mr. Radovanović. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? If we do this project 100th, the Electoral Commission will talk about the law. We have to remove one misunderstanding here, is it that we would suggest at this point we invited him to speak, we must first say whether we are going to vote on this article 100th or not. We need to get to the bottom of this first. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1309	I think we have two suggestions here. One proposal is for the law to be considered in accordance with Article 100. This is the proposal of the promoter and this proposal goes as the chronological first to vote. If he is accepted by the required majority, the issue is resolved. If he does not receive the required majority, Mr Vink's proposal is to be considered in a shortened procedure or Article 99.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1310	Thank you very much. I just wanted to remove some misunderstandings. I think these two discussions, forgive my colleagues, and I think that for Hasane, they're calming down the hormones, I think these two discussions, that these two discussions have made it clear enough that we should now put this motion to a vote. Who's in favour of this law being passed in accordance with Article 100? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Who is against, namely, who is in favour of this law being passed under Article 99. Who's against it, excuse me? So the result of the vote is 5, 10 against and 5 for. Thank you very much. So this proposal has not been adopted. We had a second proposal. Who's in favour of this law being passed in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Who's up for it? Thank you very much. This proposal was unanimously adopted. So we're going into procedure for 99. Thank you very much. Next item of the Ad agenda. 12. The House of People's report, a statement by the People's House on a request for consideration of the proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers Indirect Taxation, therefore, thank you very much. Please, there's a debate going on. Let's see if it's gonna happen. Who is it that this law is considered by a reduced procedure? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Let's go now, please open the debate, excuse me here saying that the debate is opening this is a little bit w... oh, sorry to get along in these papers. 15 The Thirteenth Point of the Agenda, Ad. 13. A statement by the People's House on a request for consideration of the proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, who is for this to be held to discuss whether the law will be discussed by a shortened procedure. Now, here's the debate. Come on. Who is to consider this, Bosnia and Herzegovina's insurance agency under Article 99. Rules of Procedure? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Fourteenth, yao 14th item of the agenda, ad. 14. A statement by the People's House requesting a review of the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People, who is to do so, so let me discuss your request, I apologize. Mr. Šiljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1311	All right, ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we're working in such a fine atmosphere. In particular, we should thank those previous laws that both the promoter and the processor who went so expressively. On the matter of the House of People's statement in a request for consideration of the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The Serbian People's Club of Delegates, respecting and having the fact that the House of Representatives held its 23rd session this month, accepted that the bill goes in regular procedure. Given that we have once made a decision, that no act or bill will be considered without the previous passing and not being in the House of Representatives, and certain suggestions of the Republika Srpska authorities, our club proposes that the application for review of the proposed law go into the ordinary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1312	Well, we expect it, but we'll do it when it's time. Here comes Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1313	Dear colleagues, here I am only going to try to complement my colleague, Šiljegović. So that's the position of the Serbian delegates' club. You know that by draft law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is envisaged to transfer competences from entities to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is exactly why we are asking this law to go to 16 regular procedures. It is therefore necessary to transfer that competence from entity to Bosnia and Herzegovina level. Today is already a session of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, which is likely to treat this one, these draft laws. Therefore, it is also intended to precede and hold a session of the Standing Committee on Military Affairs, whose appointment is ordered by the BiH presidency to determine the obligations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions to implement reforms in the area of defence, as well as the obligations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when it comes to the adoption of this law. Thank you. I'm sorry, I just want to say that we are also proposing, because this is consequently related to this law and when it comes to the laws on ministries and the laws on the Council of Ministers, that they are also going into regular procedure, because of their content and connection with the law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1314	Thank you very much, Gorana. Here comes the word Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1315	Mr. Chairman, imported fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions, present media representatives, on this subject, I would like to say the following. I support the principled and principled position of delegates from the Serbian People's Club on giving first of all an opportunity to the House of Representatives to discuss the law, so that we are pleading, and I do not think that it is, that is not disputed. However, regarding this second argument that we have heard here today, about the need for entities to transfer jurisdiction to Bosnia and Herzegovina in defence matters, I would like to say the following. Therefore, the basis of the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law without transferring the authority of entities to Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the preamble of the law and for the words of the law, in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in paragraph 3.5a), and). This should be stated because the cited member is therefore prescribed, in that constitution it is prescribed, that Bosnia and Herzegovina will assume the powers in or which are necessary to preserve the sovereignty of territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This law is therefore, the zako Act is just adopted for that reason and it is not necessary for entities to declare themselves to transfer jurisdiction to the State, since this is the exclusive jurisdiction of the State under the cited constitutional provision. So, I will still be able to understand the requirement that today, to accept that it goes into the ordinary procedure of this law, but I believe that there is a constitutional basis under which this law can be considered without the transfer of the authority of the entities, since Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the very text of the Constitution, is competent. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1316	Thank you very much. Anybody else get a word in? Mr. Genjac, here's Mr. Genjac. I love you, did you want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1317	Sincere colleagues, I will, for purely plegmatic reasons, present some of the facts and still appeal to reconsider. It is the House of Representatives who decided that this law should be considered in the ordinary procedure. But this is what the House of Representatives made a decision about ten days ago and our decision to consider this law in accordance with Article 99 would in fact mean that considering this delay for the House of Representatives, the procedure balances that it happens in both homes at the same time, or approximately in both homes. We all know that in the next period, a whole series of tight activities will follow, starting with a seminar in Tesla on Monday, with all the entities and state institutions in connection with this law and on a daily series of activities with the ministries involved by the Commission to produce reports in the defence sector, etc. Everything is focused on, all of us know the goal of trying to reach assumptions by 16 December that Bosnia and Herzegovina would meet the expected conditions for the final submission of Bosnia and Herzegovina's request to join a partnership for peace and the very act of including Bosnia and Herzegovina in a partnership for peace, which could happen at the end of this and early next year. I don't want us to get into a situation where all MPs and delegates, all committees and all those involved in this opportunity, in this process, don't get the opportunity to say their views, to make their views known to the content and to influence possible improvements. Of course, I don't want that at all. But I also think that considering this law under Article 99 in our home allows all this to be ensured, and allows each delegate and the committees responsible and the clubs of the MPs to give their opinion, at the same time, to state their views. So, once again, I appeal to think about it and yet to accept that this law is being considered under Article 99, because I think it would at least ensure that at one point in time we need to consider this law and fulfil these obligations that we are expected to fulfil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1318	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. He answered the word, Mr. Radovanović. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1319	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in favour of what Mr. Milojević said, I would just like to say that I agree with him. That we are here to assume the 18 powers that the entities will assign us. So we can't take that jurisdiction, but take over and quote a member of the Constitution says the same thing. So, it says here that Bosnia and Herzegovina will take charge of other matters that entities agree on. So it goes in favor of a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1320	Thank you very much, I apologize, Mr. Jukić answered his word. You've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1321	Here I am not quoting the Constitution, but that little thing our Rules of Procedure will consult, or invite us to find one solution that will seem satisfactory to me. Let's fit into those deadlines that are important after all, because we know it's going to be 16. The 12th will be an important meeting of some NATO associations, which will be very likely to talk about the level of readiness and acceptance of certain changes and reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And certainly it would be good if by that deadline, we had adopted these laws. If we adopt today, which is probably a regular procedure, that would mean that the deadlines match exactly what happened on the weekend before 16. That's why I'm suggesting that we do, and that allows me to at least interpret this Rules of Procedure. Article 131, 132 and 133 to authorise the College to be able to shorten this deadline in just a few days, i.e. for weekend days, and that we could have a session instead of 15, maybe 13. And that's how you'd get these days. I don't think that's irrelevant, and this other thing is that everything goes from the opportunity here the debate flows in that direction. So, we would fit into this time and time that is desirable for us to have it, and that we can report to others about us that we did this job that is expected of us, and at the same time whether the House of Representatives is going to do the job on time, so that neither of us will be for that one day, two of us have the authority of the College to schedule a session, so before that weekend or Friday, and not on Monday 15th, which falls on the one, right here by these terms, or deadlines from our Rules of Procedure. But to give me the authority of the College to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1322	Mr. Spasojević
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1323	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I just want to tell Mr. Čengić that what he was telling us earlier that this was based on the Constitution, that this precisely in the Constitution was not said, but was said if they agreed. So what you're saying is that it's the constitutional matter of Article 3 that says the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina so it says a) foreign policy, b) foreign trade policy, c) customs policy, d) monetary policy, as certain members of the financing of 19 institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, f) the policy of regulation for the immigration of refugees and asylum, g) the implementation of international inter-entity criminal rules, including relations with Interpol, h) the establishment of the functioning of common international communications, i) the regulation of traffic between entities and j) air traffic control. Nowhere is there to say that the defence is in charge, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, leaving them means some possibility that if entities agree that it can be done to make the change. We are here now in one situation as members of the People's House in front of the Serb people, and we will normally wait for what my colleagues were saying, waiting for the entity assemblies, meaning the Republika Srpska Assembly, in whose sole jurisdiction so far was the Defence Act, that it will agree in agreement with the Assembly, or bodies of the Federation and that we will later discuss it here. That's why we didn't want to reason that it goes in the short process, but that's why we want it to go in the regular procedure. But we think there's plenty of time, if they agree, we'll make a deal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1324	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Brka answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1325	I welcome you all. I just wanted to say that this law, or this problem, has been under discussion for a very long time, and I wouldn't want this home to be a cause for us not to do it in time, which is already agreed on. And that is why I suggest that we accept if it is possible in any way by a brief procedure, and if it is not possible today for the delegates of the Serbian people to accept it, we are not waiting for the deadline, the one that gives us the regular procedure, but for the College to do so even sooner than Mr Jukić suggested. I think that would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1326	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1327	Respecting everything Mr. Spasojević read from the Constitution with what he read in the same Constitution is what I read. There is an obvious interpretation of the lawyers and we will wait for these legal and political interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1328	Thank you very much, and the Constitution is a document that should not be skipped. Thank you very much. We heard, and is anyone else answering for the discussion? 20 Here we had this, is this, here we have this proposal, that the law goes into the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here after discussions, I am putting to the vote the proposal that this law goes according to Article 99, as proposed by the Council of Ministers. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you very much. 6, who's restrained? 4, thank you very much. So this law is not accepted that this law goes by, please we had a proposal from Mr. Jukić to give the House consent to the College so that, please nicely, please be careful if I say something. If we agree he's not going by article 99, then he's going to the regular and there's no need for us to vote. But now there was one proposal that, Jukićev who said that the House of Powers of the College so that our home might not be a narrow throat and the reason for the delay in this, the adoption of these laws, of this law, if adopted by the House of Representatives, that it could intervene and that this would give consent that this law was passed, to shorten the deadline. To come early, or to shorten this deadline, to go straight to the plea. Do I have to ask Mr. Spasojević, did it ever happen that the College didn't have a consensus for example? [[Common discussion]] Mr. Genjac answered his word. Please excuse me. Take it easy. We have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1330	Please, while this debate has been under way, I have tried the proposal of my colleagues, Jukić, and in some ways also the Club of Delegates from the Serbian people, formulate because it refers to the three laws that follow. So, a conclusion that could read in the following way. The home of the people gives jurisdiction to the College, to reduce certain deadlines from the regular procedure to needs, and in order to ensure that the procedure for the adoption of the law at both homes ends on a timely basis, and certainly before 15 December 2003.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1331	Here, no, no, at our home. We're talking about our college about our home. Mr Filipović and Mr Genjac. Mr Genjac's proposal turned out to be 21 which is not clear to Mr Filipović. Please, I'd like to make that part clear, so there's no misunderstanding here. So instead, Genjac please let's just read it one more time, because you and Filipović have agreed. And the Cyrillic was taught by Genjac, his teacher was a Crnogorac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1332	In this proposal that I wrote, I beg you in the proposal that I wrote, I didn't list it in both homes, it's without it. However, this is a sort of intervention by Mr. Spasojević that we cannot go before the second home, I have inserted those words in. I agree that the text of the conclusion be without these words, that it is – so, the House of Peoples gives jurisdiction to the College to shorten certain deadlines from the regular procedure in case of need and in order to end the procedure for the adoption of the law in good time and certainly before 15 December. [[Common discussion]] No, no, please. The Defense Act is directly
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1334	Please don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1335	Exactly because we don't know how to make these laws
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1336	I don't know how we're going to vote on other laws, so we don't prejudge. So, we heard gospodin Genjac's suggestion. Who's up for such a proposal? Thank you very much. So this would be the conclusion of the occasion. The law goes into regular procedure, with the Presidency or the College getting from this Parliament the power to cut deadlines, so that we are not the reason for the great punishments that can happen here, if that House agrees. Thank you very much. Not this one, please the next item on the agenda is 15, right, 22 Ad. 15. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Ministry and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples E, please be nice, I'm putting into debate. Shall we adopt that this law is passed under Article 99? The rules of the people's home. Mr. President of the Serbian People's Club, please. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1337	Thank you, Mr. President, on points 15 and 16 of the Declaration of the House of Nations on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys, as well as the following Law on the Council of Ministers, since they are related to the previous item of the Club of Delegates' agenda, it proposes the same conclusion as point 14, that it goes in the ordinary procedure and, with this addition, that the College may be empowered to shorten those deadlines to respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1338	We heard Mr. Šiljegović, thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. Do we have any further discussions? Thank you very much. Who is it for the law to be passed, that we discuss the law to the 99th of ours? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you very much. So, the law goes into regular procedure. 5 for, 2 abstentions, others against. So, the law goes into regular procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1339	So for the sake of a stenogram, we suggest that the conclusion that we adopted about the previous point of this point, we also adopt about this point of the agenda, as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1340	Here's Mr. Čengić suggested that we adopt the same conclusion as the one from the previous point, so code as in this law, the bill on defence. Who's up for it? Thank you very much. So unanimous. 14 and 13 respectively, thank you very much. 13 is, therefore, unanimously, I have not seen it and therefore 1 is abstentioned. 13 is for, 1 is abstention. Thank you very much. 23 Let's go to the point, to the 16th point of the agenda, Ad. It's 16th. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 99. At the home of the people, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers First, who is for this law to be passed under Rule 99 of our Rules of Procedure? Thank you very much. So 5. Who's against it? Six-seven against seven. suzdržan? 3 thank you very much. So the law goes into regular procedure, but here we are, the analogy of this, making a solution to adopt as well as points 14 and 15, please. Therefore, the same conclusion as points 14 and 15. Who's in? Thank you very much. 14 is for and 1 is abstention. Thank you very much. The 17th item of the agenda, Ad. 17. Proposal for amending and supplementing the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments for 2003, Articles 101 and 102. So this is the first reading, and here we have the finance minister we're giving the first word, and we're letting her talk to us a little bit about this whole thing. Please don't, the Minister will first, and then the Commission will. The Commission does not usually agree with the minister's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1341	I welcome you, and therefore, unfortunately, it is quite late this year whether, the Council of Ministers or the Presidency is proposing amendments to the Budgetary Law for 2003. I'm not going to read you the individual items of this law. I'll tell you a few introductory sentences in a way. So we all felt together and you also sent a letter about it a long time ago, one conclusion that it was necessary to rebalance for a variety of reasons. One was that the previous budget was drawn up quite inaccurately in relation to the new budget beneficiaries, that it was necessary to satisfy the meaning of how much financial needs of the new budget beneficiaries were possible, i.e. to carry out some of the corrections that were related to the existing ones. One of the conditions that could even make a rebalancing was that it was very precise to work and monitor spending during the year. We did it very carefully. Every month we reported the ones we needed and that was the IMF and the European Commission, and that was the Council of Ministers in six months and Parliament. So that part we've been tracking all along, and then we've actually been able to prove that we're going to have enough of our financial resources, so we can finance this change in budget for 2003. 24 Otherwise it could not have come to this because the entities did not agree with our intention to rebalance their assets. So they weren't in the mood to contaminate one more brand for this rebalancing. The rebalancing means that according to the requirements of the budget users, individual changes that are agreed and we think that the administrative part of the budget that has been increased, you have seen here what is important to say always to you and to the public is that we are responsible for the administrative part of the budget. The part relating to the external debt that increases significantly, the budget is what we signed long ago, we promised to pay back neatly. We're doing it neatly and so 205 million, we're increasing this budget to 211.9 million, and we're hoping by the end of the year we'll be able to finance this, given that we still have one clue about the second tranche of macro-financial assistance by the end of the year, which is an important asset. Which means we're going to have to hurry up and ratify one of those three. It is a credit agreement in Parliament, and then we have about two, three conditions left, and we have to finish it quickly to get those funds. So with these resources, with the proceeds of coffee, they're projected by the end of the year, with these individual items here, so this is how we should close this structure to 211 million with a new year. And then, by then, you already know the indications, or even bring the 2004 budget. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1342	Thank you, I'd like to hear from the Commission now. And, Zoran, do you have this, Mr. Spasojević, Mr. Spasojević is the president, all of a sudden, it's the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1343	Unfortunately, I wasn't on the Commission, but I'm at the House of Representatives, so I've been able to catch up on how what the Minister says should close this budget and end this budget rebalance that many institutions really need, and I don't know why it's been waiting this long. At one of the previous sessions, I demanded that it be brought as quickly as possible, because this is the period when the draft budget should be implemented, to adopt the draft budget for 2004. This is the time that we should discuss from now on, and I hope that the Minister who is here will be present and I am glad that he is here and I am glad to hear that they are hurrying with the draft budget for 2004, so that we do not come to tea, and that we have to bring the budget, as we have so far to bring it to an urgent procedure, that we do not have the right to amendments, that we can act as amendment as MPs so that we can bring this budget as high as possible for 2004. As far as this budget rebalance is concerned, much could be said about it, however, amendments have been adopted at the House of Representatives which have tried to close this budget rebalancing and these amendments have been taken over by our Commission and they do not know whether there is a need for us to speak here, but the Commission unanimously adopted these amendments that have been adopted at the House of Representatives and with these amendments being adopted. And, like, 25 rebalances, that kind of budget rebalancing and bringing. The new rebalancing proposal is normal with these amendments proposed by the Commission. And they're all about here. I'll read it because it's still a stenogram. The amendment I to the budget user 0101 of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH column 5 budget rebalances for 2003, under 1 current expenditure, instead of 5 million 544 thousand KM should amount to 5 million 888 thousand 422 KM. Under 2 regular number of 2 fees for staff members of the Assembly's economics at 611 200 instead of the amount of 1 million and 288 thousand KM should cost 1 million and 632 thousand 422. Under 2 special purpose programmes instead of 45 000 and 600 should cost 550,000 and 600. A regular number of 1 Clubs of Parliamentary Party MPs, instead of an amount of 200 000, which is reduced by the budget or budget that was proposed in the first wave, means nothing is increasing here, but just returning to the old situation that was proposed in the old budget, should stand at 300 thousand. And 3 total, instead of 5 million 994 thousand and 600 should cost 6 million 439 thousand and 022 KM. And below 2 in the table of booking 999 92 columns 5 budget rebalances for 2003 below 1 regular number instead of 3 million, should cost 2 million and 555 thousand and 570 KM. The total amount in Table 992 columns 5 instead of 10 million and 44o thousand 248 KM should stand at 9 million and 997 thousand 826 KM. The amendment also changes the corresponding aggregate tables and expenditure structure, and we propose that the meaning of this budget rebalance could not mean to break something out, but in the context of this budget from one item to another, has been replaced because it is only possible and so the Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted by this House. With the budget being implemented, we will also have one amendment that we propose to adopt. We propose that the Commission propose that since this is a regular procedure, there is no need for us to go to first reading and second reading, that we end this today and that today the budget rebalancing is over, and that all institutions that are budget-based can count on them to pay off their commitments, i.e. that they can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1344	Thank you, Mr. President of the Administrative Commission. You Jukić. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very brief and I'm not going to be the one to spread this debate with my additional questions, but I still can't say that this, this practice that's here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, seven, eight years present, which is that the next year's budget is being made in the current year, so we're just doing it, so we're just adopting somewhere else in the second, third month, and even a little bit later, etc. We're often brought in to work almost not knowing in some tea, etc. so that we must adopt a budget like this adopted today, which we are talking about rebalancing, in a way that we have adopted without amendments, etc. I think it would be time and it would be time for Bosnia and Herzegovina to pass a law on the ground, and then to predict, because it will certainly be envisaged as in all other countries in Europe, I hope in the world, that in the 10th month and at the latest in the 11th but certainly by the end of the calendar year, the budget will be adopted for the following year. I think we'll get to that stage very soon, and we should work on it as soon as possible. Here is now a common message and a call for access to the draft law for the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. I have a few very serious grudges about this rebalance. I find it irresponsible to plan a budget on this finding, and then even more irresponsible or one so irresponsible rebalancing of the budget. Now I'm going to remind you of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina at point 3 of the capital expenditure stands at zero, and then says the acquisition of zero, let's let's get the equipment zero, the purchase of basics zero. I find this planning irresponsible. I know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a poor country, that we have a lot of problems of financial nature and everyone else, etc. but I do not think that this kind of go donation is responsible, because you can't do a job without planning any expenditure or funds for these items. I don't know, we need to get anything from some regular phone machine, computer, or I don't know any interventions on our assets, we can't get it from where it came from because we would break the law that we brought ourselves, be careful. And why bring a law that isn't real and isn't realistically planned. And that's why my grudge in that direction is going, I don't think we should be in a position in the future to work that we have to break the law that we've brought ourselves. And that's why I think we should really plan for a more responsible, of course framed into those financial envelopes that really Bosnia and Herzegovina has. Here's my remark, and I'd really like these remarks no longer to be referred to, and then we can work under the law that we adopt ourselves, stick to it, not to have to do it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1346	Mr. Hasan Čengić, thank you, Mr. Jukić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1347	Mr. Chairman, I would like to join a section of the views and proposals, perhaps a criticism brought by Mr. Jukić. I'd like to suggest the following. In order to adopt this budget, let us adopt the conclusion that we should ask the Council of Ministers to propose a budget law no later than 2 months next year, and the second one to prepare a budget proposal for the coming year by 12 months this year at the latest. And thirdly, to suggest what is usually the common procedure not only in the world, but also in us, that those working on budgeting prepare the budget in consultation with budget users. So, I suggest that the College of Our Home prepare its proposal to bring it into line with the proposal of the House of Representatives College and then enter into serious talks with the Council of Ministers for the coming year. It may be so, but anyone who looks a little bit better at these global figures will see that, for example, the Agency for the Regulatory Agency for Communications, at this point in time, has a budget of 4.5 million marks available for this year, and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina both at home with all its employees is 6.5 million. I'll say it doesn't look very nice, that in a beautiful building like this we have a situation that out of four existing elevators, only one elevator works. It's a little ugly, because we're getting the most delegations from the world, that show up and then we can't act effectively. There are far more important things than elevators in this building and in our parliamentary activities, which need to be done even more efficiently, even better, but also possible if funds are provided. So, for this reason, I propose that this third conclusion be to ask the College of the House, a good college with the Commission together to prepare a proposal, a draft budget for the following year, for our home, that is, in collaboration with the Commission and the College of the Second House, a joint proposal and to work together with the Council of Ministers to agree on what is realistic and possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1348	Thank you very much. Hope you're welcome, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1349	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear guests, surely this subject deserves our attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1350	I'd like to serve you gentlemen. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1351	And I'd just like to move on to my colleague Hasan and these last ones. We need to be realistic about assessing especially for the benudget for next year, and here what we notice is that we don't have one balanced access to all users. Budget users. If we take into account that in the coming year, because we are going to make changes and amendments to the law, we are going to create some other users, then it certainly deserves attention that so far we set up and look at the users, we are going to make an inventory of how important they are to us, which is the size of the employees, whether we should reduce or receive new ones, about their importance and the role they play and the function they perform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially for the new functions that will be created. And that's all saying that the first budget projection for 2004, should be in front of both homes before the end of this year, so that we don't come next year to rebalancing or unrealistic evaluations. And, in particular, what will be restrictive, and I think that there is a place to do an analysis of the costs of all budget users, including from this Parliamentary Assembly, here we have said that we are quite restrictive, but well said by fellow Hasan, the Regulatory Agency is substantial in costs, and we will have in the coming period some more of the agents that are already in the stage of preparation and other agencies that will need to allocate funds and we will have to consider whether they will finance from the budget, or whether they will realise their income. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1352	Thank you, Mr. Hope, I'm putting this one on, whether anyone is coming to the debate, or if we're going to vote on accepting a proposal to amend and supplement the budgets of the institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina with amendments and at the same conclusions as the House of Representatives. Who's in? This is the first reading. 14's in. So who's abstentioned? So now we're going to say that as gospodin Genjac is restrained, thank you very much, Halid, please. Here we go to another reading. Who's calling for a hearing? Who's in favour of adopting a budget? With normal, with the observations being made. Who's in? in the amendments and amendments whether, in the same conclusion as the House of Representatives. Who's in? Is there anyone who's abstentioned? One abstention, and so, 13 for, 1 abstention. Thank you very much. 29 I congratulate you, Minister. We didn't give you much trouble. That's what we're going to watch in the next period. If, normally, you bring this proposal, at budget time, you do not offer a budget proposal on time. So, please, now we're going to line up. One of these conclusions could be formulated, it was such that the Administrative Commission of our home, in co-operation with the House Presidency, made a draft budget to participate in the preparation of the 2004 budget, and that it all ends in the course of December this year. Who's up for such a suggestion? Everyone, thank you very much for agreeing, so unanimously, there's no one against, there's no one abstention. The second proposal was for the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, to draft a budget law by February 2004 and to put it in the procedure. What is the conclusion of such a law, a proposal for an apology? Thank you very much. Unanimity.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1353	And it was third that the Council of Ministers prepared the draft budget for 2004
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1354	And by the third conclusion of the finance gentlemen, the third conclusion is that the Council of Ministers prepares a draft budget for next year until December of this year. Who's in? Unanimously, thank you very much. Please, here I'm going to say, well Mr. Genjac is restrained, sorry Halida please, Halida no, no I know what's going on, Halide I have to say one thing here. It happens, it was Halida's obligation to the Ministry and the Council of Ministers to bring about a rebalancing 60 days after the adoption of the budget, so she never did, just today. So, this one, it's good to establish obligations. Thank you very much. Point 18 of the Ad agenda. 18. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions of international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003, Articles 101 and 102. Here you go, we're opening a debate, 30.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1355	Since it is a legal obligation when the budget is passed, it is also a law on budget implementation. And since we've brought budget rebalancing, we need to pass the Budget Rebalancing Act, so this is one legal obligation for us, with the Commission also taking over from the House of Representatives one amendment, and it reads: in Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003, amounting to 10 million 442 thousand 248 KM, is amended and said: 9 million 997 000 826 KM, means one part that is one small part of about 500 000, and the Commission proposes that this law on the implementation of the budget rebalancing that we have recently adopted also in the first and second readings, so that all institutions that are based on the budget can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1356	Thank you very much, so who's answering for the word? Next, thank you, Mr. President, no one. Who is to conduct a debate on members of the law, please Minister, do you have a need to take your word for it? So who wants us to adopt this in our first reading? Unanimously, thank you very much. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm putting the law under discussion. There is, therefore, no discussion with the amendment normally. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Unanimously, thank you very much. So, on the 19th point of the day, you beat us with zero, it's not 0-0, it's 1-0. It's the 19th point of the agenda, Ad. 19. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Air Force, second reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, the Air Force, is there anyone here from the Council of Ministers, sir, but will you first propose or will you? Here you go, Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1357	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, so we have already declared ourselves to this law in our first reading. The law has passed a complete procedure. It was discussed at the Commission's foreign trade policy session on 02/09/09. On 9 September, the Constitutional and Legal Commission concluded that the proposal was submitted by an authorised promoter, that according to the Constitution, a number, namely six amendments, two 31 Dr Vink Radovanović, was submitted four myself. The amendments were discussed together with the law and the Commission unanimously adopted all amendments, and the Commission considers that this law should support the text proposed here today. And it believes that the law is the same as today's proposed important contribution to further regulating this important area. That it is modern in line with European standards and will certainly enable not only more effective regulation but also more efficient action by institutions that will be obliged to apply this law, and thus Bosnia and Herzegovina will actually take another valid step in regulating air transport issues. For all the reasons spoken and as an amendment promoter and as president of the Commission, I propose that the law be adopted in the text as delivered after the first reading, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1358	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? What I have to say is that this House of Representatives Hasane adopted this. So, if we vote well on the law, do we pass such a law with such amendments? Who's in? Thank you very much, unanimously. So, since we passed a law that's different from the law adopted by the House of Representatives, I think it's necessary to propose to the Consensus Commission and I ask this one, I would ask the representatives of the clubs to propose a member to us each from their own club to one member in the Commission, and that we have a Coordination Commission. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1359	The Serbian delegates' club proposes Mr. Vinko Radovanović, as a member of this commission, worked on these amendments at the Law-Making Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1360	That's not what we need, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1361	The Bosniak club proposes Mr Hasan Čengić as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1362	So, we heard Mr. Hasan Čengić, here's a representative of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1363	In front of the Croatian Club Mr Tomislav Limov. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1364	Here we have heard the Commission's proposals. Who is for these proposals, for these pre-longed Commission of Radovanović, Čengić, Limov? Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you, colleagues. We did it right. We have a 20th agenda, are we tired? I'm just asking, I'm just asking. It's the 20th item of the agenda, Ad. 20. Proposal for a law on court fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers You Have, you have received a report on this, an innocent commission whether, you have a report. Is there any need for a representative of the committee to talk about this? There isn't. There was no amendment to this bill. I suggest we vote on the law. Who is in favour of the law on court fees in the case of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues, we're very effective. Point 21. Ad. 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Conventions on the Recognition of Kavalifications relating to Higher Education in the European region, Proposer of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Commission in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1365	Dear ladies, and gentlemen, I would like to ask the College to accept one suggestion, since we will plead individually on each of these decisions, that I present in the package the report for point 21 are all in order, 22, 23, 24 and 25. If you accept, then I would say for all of these points that I have mentioned that I do not read the names of all these documents, that this has been discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and recommending this home to give consent to ratifying these acts.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1366	Thank you Filipović, very effectively, I must say that the House of Representatives has adopted these, that the House of Representatives has also given consent and that there is still someone to report for the discussion after such an excellent presentation by the President of the Commission. 33 Who is to ratify, to ratify? Thank you very much. So unanimous. We have a point 22. Ad. 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on co-operation in the field of education and science we heard, not roughly, but indeed heard the President of the Commission. This is the same verifier of this House of Representatives and who is it to verify this? Thank you very much. So unanimous. We have a point 23. Who's to give consent and pardon Ad. 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece on cooperation in the fields of culture, education and science under the same conditions. Who's to give consent to the verification? Thank you very much. 24th point of the Ad agenda. 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on co-operation in the field of education, science and culture under the same conditions. Who's to give consent to ratification? Unanimity. Thank you. Unanimity given. Point 25 of the Ad agenda. 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Cultural, Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France under the same conditions, in the same way. 34 Who's in? Thank you very much. So it's unanimous again. We have point 26. Ad. 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Scientific and Technological Co-operation Report of the Competent Commission. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1367	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy at its meeting of 21 October this year discussed the issue, hence giving consent to the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on scientific technical co-operation and proposed that this House be adopted by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasons are simple and clear. It is that this treaty will further improve scientific and technological co-operation between our two countries that are otherwise compatible and we can freely say that the Republic of Croatia is ahead of some of these issues and we can have an even greater interest. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to go with other points, 26, 7 and 8, until 30 on all these issues, our commission has been declared. So we discussed the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Croatia on Cultural, Educational and Sports Cooperation. We already have a lot, but this contract will only facilitate all these activities and cooperation in cultural, educational and cultural, worship and sport. We compete, sometimes we lose, sometimes we win, but the contract is needed and we suggest that this tall home be accepted. Third, we also discussed the issue of an agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Netherlands on international road transport. We believe this is necessary to facilitate the transport of goods between the two countries, but we certainly make it easier for the transporters to do their jobs and I suggest this home to accept this agreement. We also propose as the Commission that the basic Agreement on co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain be adopted. We already had one principled general agreement with the Kraljevina of Španija. This is a basic agreement that is on the line of further improving the relations of the two countries. And finally lastly, I propose that this home accept the Agreement on Trade Economic Relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary which is therefore our neighbouring country, which is more developed than we are. The next year, it becomes a member of the EU or of the European Community, and we feel that it is necessary to facilitate our agreement, or cancel this agreement because they have obligations towards this very EU accession. I can't respect it until they have abolished this, and the rights that we have will actually be contained in their obligations through the European Community. So we suggest that all these agreements in this house be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1368	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Thank you to the Commission. Here's what we've heard from these exhibits, and we'll do the same in this order. I mean, the House of Representatives has also given consent to all these agreements and I think that, here we have to figure out and we have to say this, simply because it has to be in the stenogram. So let's go. Is there a need to debate after such a statement by the President of the Commission? There isn't. Who is it to adopt, to agree to ratify the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on scientific and technological co-operation? Who's in? Thank you very much. So unanimous. We're going according to the same resolution, namely the 27th point Ad. 27. Giving consent to the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cultural Education and Sports Cooperation Who is to give consent to the ratification of the Treaty? It's unanimous, then. Thank you very much. 28th Point of the Ad agenda. 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Netherlands on international road transport So we heard the Commission as well. Who's to give consent to ratify such an agreement? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Point 29 is Ad. 29. Giving consent to ratification of the basic agreement on co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain Who is it that this home gives consent to ratification? Thank you. You drove yours away, and now. So we unanimously adopted this agreement. 36th Point of the Ad agenda. 30. Giving consent to the cancellation of the Bilateral Agreement on Trade and Business Relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, Evo, you heard the Commission that the Republic of Hungary must change the agreement a little because of its entry into the EU. Who's in favor of firing? Thank you very much. E, 31st point 31. Ad. 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Federal Council on Technical Economic and Humanitarian Co-operation - proposed by the BiH Presidency, the Commission. Is there a commission here? Dedera Zoki.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1369	The Committee for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House was held at its session on 10th. Ten.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1370	Please talk to me. Hello, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1371	consider Proposal for a Decision on ratification
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1372	Zoran, please. We're going pretty fast, and I understand we're getting a little tired, but let's not lose our patience to finish this. First condition that you don't die young.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1373	So at its session held on 28.10., the Commission discussed this proposal for an agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Swiss Federal Council on technical economic and financial and humanitarian co-operation, and we believe it is very important that we and the countries that are extremely developed, and Švajcarska belongs to those countries to connect and as regards technical and particularly economic and financial and humanitarian matters, because they can help us in both economic and humanitarian matters and that this agreement is important and we propose that it be adopted. 37 Since I came out here I will also say this next point – Proposal for a decision to ratify the BiH-Republic of Moldova Agreement on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments. I'm especially glad I'm always saying this about reciprocal protection, but it just seems that we're doing reciprocal protection with countries that are at our level and lower than we are. And all the countries that are more developed than us, they don't allow this reciprocal, but they're asking us to sign an agreement with them as they require, and I think that if one day we come to that stage that we sometimes put this remark on someone, that we have to say that we have to reciprocally, but only to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1374	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Here we have heard the presentation of the President of the Commission. I must, or I would like to point out that the House of Representatives has given its consent to these agreements, so I suggest we vote too. Who is it that we agree to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Union? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Second 23, uh, excuse me, 32. Ad. Thirty-two. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Moldova on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments Who is in favour? Thank you very much. So unanimous. And the 33rd item of the Ad agenda. 33. The Council of Ministers' report on what is not. Excuse me, please. Let's go like this. Let's take a break and let people take a look at this. Ad. 33. Council of Ministers' report on the initiative and the adoption of activities in the construction of the Corridor V-c highway Do we have this report from the Council of Ministers? No, I don't think we're gonna take it off, but we could make one conclusion. I suggest that the Council of Nations. Who's it gonna be? We're not getting off the agenda. I, therefore, agree that this item of the agenda, because no representative of the Council of Ministers has come, is being discussed behind the break. Let's move it. 38 Thank you very much. And that's a good solution. Information on the eviction of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees Report of the competent commission. Do we have a report from the Commission? We don't. Do we have a reporter from the Council of Ministers? Do we have, I don't know, ustavno-pravni law, I guess there's a commission? Do we have anyone outside the Council of Ministers? We don't. Well, there isn't. Information on the realisation of the CIPS project ____________ Wait until we download this. What do we do? So I'd like to move this too, give people a chance to adopt this to finish the job. So, I ask the secretary to inform the Council of Ministers that their points, i.e. the information, are in order and come yes. All right. We have this information on the implementation of the CIPS project on the 35th agenda. We have a CIPS information project. Let's take a break from this. And point 36, Ad. 36. Report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the general elections in 2002 in Bosnia and Herzegovina Do we have a report, do we have a reporter? Do we have a proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1376	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll allow me to say only two three sentences. The Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed this material submitted by and a report for the general elections. She accepted it as such, with one remark that it is a lot of river for over a year to make reports on the elections, because we are already knocking on the door of the next local elections. So that in the future, it would just not have taken us so long to write that report that should still come at least one half year before the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1377	Thank you very much. Is there more? We heard the Commission. Do we have any debaters? Here you go, Mr. Radovanović. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1378	Please, I'd just like one question. Since we downloaded the previous four or five points because there were no rapporteurs, I don't know on what principle we're now discussing this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1379	We're saying this because we have a commission that's been through it, read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1380	The Commission is not a rapporteur, at this point the Commission is not a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1381	They were here and they got angry. Yeah. Okay. I'm sorry. I, here I am putting, regardless of Mr Radovanović's remarks, I am putting this to the vote. Here you go. Here, here, I apologize. Mr. Jukić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1382	I believe that, first of all, what the President of the Commission, the responsible, Mr Filipović stands and we all agree. I think the Election Commission did it... This has been confirmed by some both foreign and domestic, etc. But I find this late reporting to me inexplicable and I don't know why. But more importantly, I think this was an opportunity to talk a little bit or ask the Electoral Commission a question about the course of preparations for the upcoming local elections, because we are not putting on a special point, etc. It was an opportunity to talk about it. We know that there are problems, at least I've heard that there are them and I believe there are them in...the means to conduct these elections and it would be interesting to hear what projections of these costs are and how likely they are and how to provide the funds for the implementation of these local choices that follow in about a year or less. And that's why I think it would be a good idea for us to perhaps further consult the Election Commission and have a representative of the Electoral Commission appear here. He can answer these questions, and I expect some other questions, and if you could just set the president up for a break or a break, I don't know what time it is, and we can invite all those who should inform us in the meantime, because there will be questions for sure. I think it's better to ask the questions at those previous points of what they refer to as voa reports, without asking them as representation questions, and then waiting for the answer, etc. I think it's more effective and meaningful that we have immediately here these so-called authorized past these institutions that have submitted these reports and from previous points. 40 So I'll repeat, I suggest we talk about this after the break, and in the meantime, we'll figure out all the ones that were supposed to be here and who filed these reports that we're supposed to be discussing right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1383	Mr. Genjac. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1384	I'll try to appreciate in my discussion the fact that we don't have a promoter here, that we have reports ahead of us, that we need a debate on the preparation of general elections, and I think we could find a solution in these frameworks. First of all, I find the report on the work of the Election Commission in the general elections in 2002 very important and I would say... in the sense that everything relevant to the conduct of the elections has been collected in one place... And so on and so forth. [[You don't understand.]] I wouldn't take time with the more consistent details of this report, but I think we could, respecting what my colleague Jukić was saying, I think this debate could, given both today's schedule and dates, etc. finish with the next conclusion. That we take this report to the knowledge, but at one of the future sessions we put the agenda point – Information on preparation for municipal elections and in this debate to use this data because elections are choices you know. Registration of voters, all of these are similar topics and I think this can be a basis for us to prepare ourselves well for a debate on the preparation of municipal elections. So if we agree, I think this conclusion could – we should take this report to the attention of the College, and we should make it mandatory for the College to put the agenda report for municipal elections in co-operation with the Election Commission at the next session and we should all prepare ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1385	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is he still picking up? Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1386	Dear fellow MPs, I feel the need to say a few words and bow to the idea of how we did it for other points and moved the debate after the break to do so in this case, because that's what one... But the other thing I wanted to say is that there are amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under way, a prolonged commission or commission sitting on Mr. Genjac and I in front of the House, and we've had a few meetings... 41 The Working Group is practical for preparing amendments and additions to the Election Law and the floor, I do not know exactly how many members there are, but I think there are representatives of both homes and other homes and the Council of Ministers and the Electoral Commission itself and other expert, scientific, etc. The person was sent a letter to this working group to the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to one and another home, to the MPs yes and left with a period of 15 days that all those who think that this text of the Election Law should be repaired, to be recruited in any way to deliver it, to those of their thinking to the working group. [[You don't understand.]] It is formed within the Working Group and an expressive group that will work to identify all these initiatives that come into this task force for amendments and additions to the Election Law, so if it is not given to each of the MPs, and this memo has come to one and the other home. It would be good after a break if such an act came to the table in front of every MP, and I'm staying on that a moment ago, I said, I would like to apply myself to the motion for a debate on this election commission report. He's late. If there are any questions and in relation to this surrounding current, an amendment to the Election Law to do so after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1387	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? So here's what we all agree to see is whether or not we agree because there was a different proposal. Do we agree that this agenda item goes after the break? Who's to get the agenda to go after the break? Thank you very much. So who's against it? Who's restrained? One against, one abstention. Thank you very much. We now have 37 points Ad. 37. Let's buy Tomislav Lim's resolution. You've got the resolution of the delegates Tomislav Lim. On the basis of Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the House may decide that the resolution is first considered by the committee in charge, then by Dom, but we can also discuss without the decision of the competent commission. So who's to discuss this resolution right now? Thank you very much. That was necessary in my opinion. Mr. Tomislav Limov, you have your word. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1388	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the presidents, fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of professional services, representatives of public information, above all I hope that this resolution will be ours, and not mine, only formally for today's agenda point is thus formulated. In fact, today we are in a position to realize our own conclusion that we unanimously made at the House of Nations session held in May this year. I said in the last session that I would submit a proposal for the text of this resolution. I did that and I hope I don't have to convince myself of the content in the opening statement, but I still appreciate the need to say a few words. Unfortunately, there is no need to put too much pressure on the facts, although there is also reason to worry about being convinced of the dramaticly bad situation or better to say economic indicators about our exchange with the world. Recently, accurate data have also been provided that we practically cover only 1/3 through exports, some say our imports. I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be importing about a billion dollars in agricultural products this year alone. On the other hand, because of a series of unresolved issues related to the stimulation of agricultural producers, we have for years been having huge land areas that lie unworked as our untapped potential. And with so few treated surfaces, a large number of our products fail. I don't know, at least in our environment any country that in different ways, the truth of will is far more effective than we are protecting our domestic product. By building our own production we are very in the near future condemned to no perspective and increasingly difficult life. and the lies for the political economy know that without production there is no survival of society or a prosperous state. We are all less witnessing that for many different reasons, an unhealthy climate that produces consciousness in a significant part of our citizens is unsustainable for a long time as it is better and better quality. Not only is someone else's not better, it's too often just the other way around. But the fact is that by accepting the consciousness and practice of tolerating other people's products and other services, we are directly and indirectly working for the benefit of our own damage. It's a safe formula for our failure. So we will passively and actively contribute to our independent approach to the ecnomial sink. We can all do more for ourselves, primarily as consumers. There's no such thing as great wisdom. The solution is simple, let's respect our own, let's help ourselves, let's buy our own. And just like that, and only then will we be better off. Then we're all interested in each other, because buying domestic products is worth a lot of money. Is it necessary to convince someone that a series of our products is healthier, more natural and more quality than foreign ones? By buying domestic products and using domestic services, we support our production, help keep the existing ones and create conditions for opening new jobs, enable the employment of our people and restore our faith in ourselves and our own. Why others around us can show their patriotism by buying their products, and we, for our money, buy these products instead of ourselves, help them. With this resolution, we invite all citizens, economic operators, municipal, county, entity, state and all other institutions to buy domestic 43 products and use domestic services, and thus provide permanent support to domestic production and the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of creating an environment for the more equal position of our producers on the market, opening new jobs, and on the basis of the work of achieving the desired, increasing the standard of living of employees and other social categories of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That approach of ours shouldn't be a campaign at any time. It should be our lasting relationship to what's ours. That's besides our way of fighting for our own dignity. This approach will limit foreign production to be found on our market with its products. It doesn't occur to us to advocate any closure of the market, but no one has the right to resent what we love, buy, spend and use our own. Let the adoption of this resolution be a clear signal to everyone above all holders of executive and legislative duties to prepare possible adoption of such regulations, which will be more permanent and efficient than ever before create conditions for organised protection and development of our domestic production. I have no doubt at all about the well-willed fellow Members, the envoys, and all of you will personally contribute to the success of the overall activity that we will lead on every inch of our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina with regard to the implementation of a commitment that clearly springs from the text of this resolution. Mr. President, please allow you, by formulating the conclusion after the adoption of the resolution, to deliver the same to the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that this House also strengthens the overall activity with its support. In addition, I propose that this resolution be delivered to the institutions of our system at all levels of organization, so that everyone in their domain can find and determine their own tasks on this plan. Please also esteemed representatives of public information funds that they, as part of their respectable capabilities, also help to revive the subject-matter of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1389	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here we have heard this resolution, and little is it, referring to the resolution and the appeal to the MPs and the public and to the community as a whole by Mr Lim. Here I am now putting into debate and the resolution is whether, as a document that will become a document of the Parliament of the Council of People and most likely also of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Čengić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1390	So I support the resolution proposed by Mr Limov. On the trail of everything we have discussed and concluded in this House, I also support or can propose a proposal for a text, so that after accepting the resolution, we conclude that the resolution is delivered to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, in order to adopt the resolution in this text, and I suggest we draw another conclusion. And this is to ask the Council of Ministers to prepare a proposal for a campaign to be bought domestically, which would be conducted in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels, which should not spend much money, but should ensure that this idea is truly popularized, that not only we are talking about it, but that we do it together. I am convinced that they are here just as Mr Limov said great resources for both employment and for increasing our incomes, reducing imports and overall encouraging the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1391	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. So, who is it, to adopt the resolution and to direct it to the House of Representatives to adopt it, with the demands that they adopt it, and I think when this House is adopted, so when it is complete, this resolution of the House of Bosnia and Herzegovina will then launch it as a parliamentary resolution in the media. Is this making any sense to Limov? Is it satisfactory? That's this first, then we'll do the second. Who's up for this proposal? So unanimous. It was Mr. Hasan Čengić's proposal to ask the Council of Ministers to make a proposal for a campaign to realise this resolution if so. Who's up for it? So this is unanimous, too. Thank you colleagues very much. And now we're gonna take a break and as we said by 3 o'clock. Continuing at three o'clock, and until then, I ask you gentlemen to let the clubs see what we have on the agenda around the joint commission. We'll get a joint commission, then we'll propose. Let's continue this session. [[PAUZA]] I hope we're done with these jobs, that we've negotiated as we've negotiated. 45 I am obliged to declare that Mr. Zrna had to travel and that Spasojević also had to travel, but it doesn't bother at this home, does not reduce the value of the decision, because without them we have a quorum and we think we can do quality work. So the next item of the agenda is whether, is so, now we're going to that commission. So there was one proposal and it was included in the agenda. The formation of a Joint Commission on Security Policy and Oversight over the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Information and Protection Agency I would pray, I would now pray here that we do not retaliate. This is where we agreed that MPs' clubs would discuss this and take a stand, and it would be enough for MPs' clubs to be able to express the views of MPs' clubs and to know what the clubs had agreed and see if we could adopt this. I suggest, sir, if we agree on this. We agree with this. It's a representative or president of the Serbian People's Club, please. I whenever, the more I touch him, the less I become a Srbin I must tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1392	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates has been considering this proposal. We have agreed that as far as this conclusion is concerned, he will be accepted. I just don't know if we're going to be making proposals right now for the members of our commission or not. As far as the proposal is concerned, I'd just have one little remark at the beginning here. I don't know how much notice there is in paragraph 5, written from the House of Peoples by hand. In our opinion, this is an integral part of this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1393	What's that? I'm a joint committee from the House of Peoples, this was
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1394	Okay, and for the members of the Commission, we propose Mr Boško Šiljegović and Mr Zoran Spasojević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1395	The Croatian People's Club. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1396	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, imported ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister and the others present. With the support of making this conclusion today at the House, 46 few of us seem to need suggestions for new reflections on the content of this conclusion. First, we would suggest that the conclusion has a new title. This title, in our court, given the content of the conclusion, since I mention here and defence and security, should read on our proposal – the conclusion on the establishment of a common defence, joint commission on defence and security policy and the supervision of the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, following that name, which should be complete, should read point 1 of this conclusion, which is -- a joint defence and security policy committee is being formed and supervision of the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the follow-up of the Joint Commission. Point 2 is without notice, with each of these points there are 22 of them, style languages and other natures, so I won't bother you about it. This will be reviewed, but if a new name of this conclusion is accepted in the tasks, which means that we in this House would also accept the exact name of that commission, which will be shared at both homes level, in the tasks should include both defence and security and the state border service and the Agency that is here. Thus, the commission would practically have this oversight of the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A more concrete observation to Article 3(4) of the last task, in that article, should first be taken down the second point if this is accepted earlier than I have said, as it speaks here about point 2 of Article 3 only on the Agency. This point should be deleted secondly, this should be renumbered and point 4. should be read in our court like this – the tasks of the Joint Commission are of temporary character until the adoption of the law in the area of defence and security, it should place a point here instead of a point and say - that is, until the adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedures in the work of the House of People and the Parliamentary House of BiH. That is exactly the question, these are questions that we have not yet defined and we will define them in our own offices, when we define them we will adopt them and then we will have clearly established and the tasks of this new commission. In Article 4(2), first paragraph, the quorum for the work of the Commission shall consist of 7 members of the Commission, of which at least one or half of the members of the Commission. It should be inserted into the meaning – one of these two words and in the second paragraph, the Joint Commission decides this all below to delete, but to add – in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on how to decide the joint committees of both homes. We have not defined this question, we have opened it on the Rules of Procedure Commission of the House of Peoples, we believe that we will reach agreement on the founding of joint committees with colleagues working on the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, as one question opens as to how a representative from this House can let go into the procedure of the law and it ends up on the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives. You know, that's where we're going to go, we're going to have to define some things how it is, how 47 roles are played in all of this, and how a joint committee will act when it gets material from an authorised college who's going to do it there. And finally, in this commission this, since he expressed his interest, Mr. Zrno proposed under the authority of the president of our club, I would suggest that this is the only reason why Mr. Branko Zrn and Mr. Ante Spajić don't go out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1397	Thanks, buddy. The president of the Bošnjak klub, Mr. Genjac, president of the Bosniak Club, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1398	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues, guests, since my colleague Genjac has initiated and led this item to the agenda, and I will refrain from making a statement on the proposal for a conclusion, and I will only say that our club's position is to have Halid Genjac and Osman Brka in this joint commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1399	Thank you very much. So, I am now opening a little debate on these proposals he made in principle whether, on these proposals made by Mr Filipović or looking for a solution to how to incorporate it now, how to make that decision, namely because we already have one decision that was at clubs and agreed. Now what Mr Filipović has proposed is a certain change in whether, complementarity and change, the most likely improvement of text, improvement of conclusion, and let's see that. I'd like to take a little of this, if we could just listen a little bit. I'd like to put this here, what Mr Filipović suggested, that we discuss it a little bit, let's think about it. Given that we had the text of this conclusion whether, and talked about it at clubs, this is something new that we haven't discussed at clubs, so let's see if we've changed that into something and how much it changes these attitudes. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1400	We'll start by trying to find a solution. First around the title. The Joint Committee on Security Policy, I think it also covers what my colleague, Ilija, has proposed, because security policy includes the security sector, includes the DGS defence sector and all those sectors, etc., which is part of security. And, I think, when security policy is said, that this includes and includes defence, especially when it is later stated that this commission is considering and monitoring the implementation of security policy and defence policy as two documents, and defence policy is under the document of security policy. So I don't see any big reason here for the title to be, he would extend the name of the commission and essentially not change, so that's what this name means. 48 Of course, this conclusion comes from the existing state of play in terms of the law and therefore speaks about the supervision of the work of the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a law on the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina which provides that there is a Parliamentary Commission to oversee this agency. All this, when the Defense Act is passed, the Intelligence Act, which this commission would participate in, will change structure and nature. Then the Rules of Procedure will be adopted, and then it will be adapted to the state of play. So I think this name satisfies that ambition that my colleague Ilija made in his proposal. As far as further matters are concerned, if, therefore, the security sector covers all these issues, I think this point 3 of Chapter 3, that the Joint Commission is considering other issues in the security area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is actually covering what is the Commission's competence, which will be a need at this point, and which will be specified later in the Rules of Procedure. So I think we should keep this point for exactly the reasons. As for point 4. I think it is acceptable to add – the tasks of the Joint Commission are temporary character to the adoption of the law from the defence of security, i.e. to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure. That solves a lot of things, so he does this Rules of Procedure, and then this is really on one temporary basis while the Rules of Procedure determines it in detail and establishes it. That is, therefore, acceptable for a very reasonable reason, because indeed the Rules of Procedure need to be settled. As for this point 5. We're having fun with the question of law enforcement, if they're proposed from a home, etc. However, this issue is on this one, which is specifically being treated in this we are on both committees, and later and together as a Commission in detail, I think we have a thorough agreement. About the quorum, about the composition of the Commission, about how to decide. So I think this could remain and it would be a very unfavourable situation to say that it will decide how it is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure and in the Rules of Procedure, there is no precise prescribed decision-making mechanism. And if this is said to be temporary by the time the new Rules of Procedure is adopted, we really have to do this here, I think that, in the previous work of both committees, this has been narrowed down, that it is precisely established, elaborated, agreed, and I think it satisfies the position of the House of Peoples and the position of the House of Representatives and the position of parties and the position of clubs and, respectively, of constituent peoples in the House of Peoples. I think this voting mechanism, especially since it is one commission that has the ambition to work out even more in the Rules of Procedure, I think this could survive. So here, for me, this acceptable addition of point 4 or until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, and the rest as a proposal, I think it should remain this one, if it were sufficiently or clearly resolved and I simply would not, I think that the solution offered in the proposal for a conclusion in some areas or more clearly or what I know in my opinion is more likely for this commission to be temporary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1401	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here's Mr. Jukić. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1402	I am now not a little surprised by this debate by Mr. Genjac, because I expected him to be very happy to accept because I was thinking that the thinking of the Bošnjak should most certainly be this title of this commission. And in the final version. And I think it's much better proposed than Mr Filipović, than it is in the proposed text here. A more realistic and comprehensive title, and that just as Mr Filipović suggested, it reflects already in the title of the commission, its main tasks. And everything later on, it just means little development and expansion. Three months ago, four years ago, when an amendment to the Rules of Procedure was being made, one working version of this commission was then understandable to me, and today I find it logical to have a name as Mr Filipović said, so for the Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight of Defence and Security Structures. For me it is such a good title, which is so clear and comprehensive and is actually the real point of what the Commission needs to do. And I think this title is very clumsy, especially in this second part of its work, when it says control over the work of the Information and Protection Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not the only security structure, and it shouldn't be just her at all. I also think that the solution offered by Mr Filipović in Article 5 is not good and that this is better offered in this text that we have received from ourselves, because in our Rules of Procedure it is really not defined how the joint commissions work, is not defined in a special way. And this solution that's written here, I even think it can pass. Here's really the one, I wouldn't be able to hold on to anything on this, I think maybe there's still a little bit more to be added to it and put it in line with what this commission really needs to be and I wouldn't limit it if it only had control over the work of the Information and Protection Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I absolutely stand for it, and I think it's a title. Here, I wouldn't take that much longer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1403	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Filipović. You're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1404	Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, here's what Mr. Jukić said. It also led us to go to a change in the name of this committee. Just because he's here in the name of the commission, he's talking about overseeing the work of only the Agency. We wanted the name of the work to be included in the name of the commission and over the defence and security structures of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now, in a mild consultation with Mr Genjac, who has proposed this conclusion, I have been given the consent to say here, I am saying this because of my fellow Serbian Club, this repeat, easy conclusion, its name means – the conclusion on the establishment of a common commission on defence and security policy and a view on the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That would be how we do it as the title, regulate and the commission's tasks, and yet it would be after we adopt these Rules of Procedures. 50 I thank Mr. Genjac for accepting this intervention, at point 3, 4 and I withdraw this proposal at point 5. Since it is otherwise regulated by the Rules of Procedure, it will also be an obligation for this Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1405	Thank you very much, please. We've heard these proposals for some changes in the title. Let's get these suggestions in line first. Who is it, these suggestions that Mr Filipović was now talking about, and here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1406	Since this is what we agreed on, I, as a promoter, accept the amendment to the title as Mr Filipović said. I've listed this amendment to point 4 until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, and I've accepted that. All that now becomes an integral part of the conclusion, and now we can adopt the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1407	So here we agreed that Filipović and Genjac agree these their own, they agreed, you agreed, so you agree and now you need to write them. Now that's one conclusion. Who's to this conclusion? With these names, I'm not asking you to conclude this, another thing, please. I put to the vote the proposal of the members of the Commission given by representatives of the Members' clubs. Should they be read? Thank you very much. Here's who's for the Commission's composition? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. So unanimous. Thank you very much. So here's the adoption and we're done, and this part of the agenda. Now it's time for the 33rd point, that is, now it's the 34th pardon you're going to give me a little bit of just. Now we're going to talk about Corridor V-c. Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who can file a report on this corridor. Here you go, assistant. Deputy, I'm sorry, I don't know. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1408	Dear ladies, Mr. Chairman, before you there is information about the activities of the realization of Corridor V-c which you have been given in good luck in time and I hope you have studied it now. It also contains basic information on what the Council of Ministers and the Resoring Ministry has done on the realisation of the highway on Corridor V-c. In addition to this information in the material, you have received the original documents that we have provided you to sort of resolve all the dilemmas that have been presented to the public in the media so far, as well as by MPs in the House of Representatives on the activities that we have led to the realization of this task so far. As you saw the preparatory activities on the highway implementation at Corridor V-c, we started on the basis of the conclusion of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, which was adopted on 29 January 2003. Here's because I'm kind of being warned that maybe I don't go into detail a little bit too much, I'll just mention four important activities. Afterwards, the Council of Ministers formed a co-ordination team for the realization of Corridors, an express team for the realization of the V-c highway, and I would like to point out that in June we received an own-initiative offer from Bosmal, which the Council of Ministers discussed on 30 June and provided its reply to Bosmal. You have that answer, too. What is most significant at this time is that the Ministry of Communications, or that the Council of Ministers has opened a competition for the selection of the concession committee, which is the authority of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, and since the deadline is very close, we are confident that for the next 15 days as the Council of Ministers, we will submit a proposal for the name of the concession committee to be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. After that, we can access any further activities in the realisation of the highway on Corridor V-c. What I must say is that so far, the Council of Ministers has not taken a single move that is contrary to the law, and that is what I am obliged to say and all these activities have been aimed at speeding up the realisation of highway construction. Thank you very much. We are at our disposal, me, the secretary of the ministry and the head of the expert team within the ministry, Mr Amir Kupusović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1409	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm sorry now, am I? Please, you've received an apology. I know. Here comes Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1410	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I hope we will not have a debate today on whether it is important and how important it is to build a car 52 times on Corridor V-c and I know that we agree on that. It is important that we have received this information from the Council of Ministers and especially that we have had the opportunity, probably the largest number of us first to see the original documents we may have heard about in the press. So instead of discussing I would suggest one kind of conclusion regarding this information and Mr. Chairman it could be in three parts. So first, I think we should give the Council of Ministers support for the activities that lead. The second should be asked by the Council of Ministers to ask the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, of course by respecting the law to bring an end to the procedure, i.e. a proposal for the formation of a concession commission for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Third, to ask the Council of Ministers, within a very reasonable period, to propose, within 30 days at the latest, a dynamic plan of activities until the signing of the concession agreement with whoever is elected. So we have a kind of dynamic plan to see which kind of dynamics it's going through, the actions are mostly positive. For some parts of the shop are scheduled deadlines for some are not. It would be good if we had that dynamic plan. I think that about these conclusions we could agree on and continue to monitor the activities that the Council of Ministers is actively leading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1411	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this information is very important and important because this topic is one of the most exploited topics in the last half of the year in Bosnia and Herzegovina and no more reason. I think it's really important and important. I believe that so far done in the Council of Ministers can be positively assessed, but I also believe that the Council of Ministers should have one clear, already clear strategy and order of moves as well as what to do in the next period. I will tell you how important this project really is to us not a single word, but I will say my thinking in which case the ministry, or the Council of Ministers, or this home, should be determined by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the construction of the highway on Corridor V-c. I think it would be a much better position for the Council of Ministers and ours as the owner of the concession on this corridor if we could find ways, secure funds and finance the production of study project documentation. I think it's very important and important, and I think we'd be in a much better position. I'll say it again. I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina should assess that this is the right way and that it needs to be found ways and I don't know how many tens, or maybe a few hundred million euros. If this were to happen this way, then I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina could achieve much better conditions and conditions for those potential concessionaires, so those who are interested in taking 53 concessions on this highway. I don't know, I'm afraid that, at least I have information that we're not thinking in that direction, but it seems to me that it keeps standing in place and trying to look for bidders under conditions, means that we don't actually have anything but expressed interest that we should build a highway in this corridor. And once again, I think whoever's interested in this way, that he's going to be in a much better position and we're the owners of this concession in a much worse position. In addition to this fortress of mine, there is a fact that more interested users of this concession have appeared. And also to keep this job afloat, I find it very important to do the following. - Form a directorate for construction of highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that we are already in Bosnia and Herzegovina at one stage when we can, we should, and I hope that we want to think this way and make these decisions. At that time, this road management at Bosnia and Herzegovina level would have had the task and authority to be a road manager, work in organisation, prepare, design, later use of the road. I think this is very important and important and it would be the right way. Here, I have said a few of my thoughts, but important thoughts in finding the right way to do the most important preparatory things and to have one good position, therefore institutional but also programmatic, strategic how to define the way to build a car road in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today is information here and this is quite correct, I didn't say it at the beginning of my debate done by the Council of Ministers, so there's nothing that isn't here of any importance, at least I think so, and I read it and I think that's right and that's good. But here's the subject of Corridor V-C. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina has a need, I think you have a chance to include yourself and your space in some other international road corridors. I think we should work on that, but first we should also tell him what our goal is and our interest is, and then when there is opportunity in both international contacts and conferences and places, so that our goal is to bring, lobby and fight for BiH to join other international road and road corridors. Here, I'll say here, I think even a little bit and specifically on the Adriatic-Ionian highway which is still not an official international road corridor, but I think it's the great strategic interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fight to make this become an international road corridor and to make that corridor, that car road go as deep and as long as possible through Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that these are extremely important and important things, important projects that will significantly affect the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the positioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the road network of Europe, as well as regions. Let's not forget that maybe this would be one of the shortest roads, if not the shortest road from Turkey, so from the lower Asian, close to the eastern part of Central Europe. 54 Behold, I have seen a few of my thoughts, and I would like the deputy minister here to think at least seriously about this thinking, because I have some kind of modest experience in this sort of here business of transport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1413	Thank you, Mr. Jurković. Yeah, well, is anyone picking up their word? Do we have any more debaters? Let's get this straight first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1414	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, a very important object of life interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina at this time when Corridor V-c would move, we know what would bring us economics. And I agree that this is good detailed information that the Council of Ministers has said what he has done so far. However, somehow I have the impression that we have here a self-initiative Bosmal and some things have happened to insist on others. I would like the Council of Ministers to give one of their visions as well as one of which we will find to Corridor V-c and not only V-c, but what Jukić said, this V-c corridor must be connected to one another. So there will be some cross-border regional ties that are also very important for both Bosnia and Herzegovina or its regions and neighbours. And maybe it wouldn't be bad for us to see our vision clearly how we want to get to this. It's undeniable that it's important that we don't talk about it, about the importance of Corridor V-c. But let's see if the Council of Ministers has a vision of how they'll come, what if there's no concessions, or what with the concession. We can't expect only the concession board to say yes, it goes to the concession and we give you and those conditions to the concessionary. Do we have the strength to and would do well if we had the strength of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make project documentation to resolve all the dilemmas in it, because this is about our citizens. We need to provide some property legal relations there to regulate, we need to provide some alternative roads for life to take place and traffic in the process of construction to complete the work as soon as possible. So it requires a more extensive work on this and better this information that, this is the first information, are certainly commendable, but surely in the coming period they are looking for more, more, solutions of practical which will be the subject of debates and Parliament and all relevant bodies. Here, it certainly requires the inclusion of entity ministries, governments, directorates, and I don't know perhaps a lower question of property legal relations that will certainly not be negligible. Well, as part of that, I think that, uh, maybe in the next period, we have this one studio vision of how to get to Corridor V-c. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1415	Thank you very much. Here we have heard the gentleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1416	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr. Čengić that I don't think we should discuss whether or not we need that highway. But before we take these conclusions, I'd like to make some of my dilemmas about these conclusions. If we're going to support the Council of Ministers honestly, I'm looking at these conclusions of the Council of Ministers, I don't know where to give our support to the Council of Ministers. Because the second conclusion is that part of the Council is being discussed with Bosmal, in the third conclusion that the ministry is talking to Croatia, with the fifth conclusion that study project documentation is being made. So that's where we have to be this clean, that is, what's said now to see the Council of Ministers give us their vision, that is, that we know what we're going to give support to the Council of Ministers. I think there are three things that the Council of Ministers should be working on. As far as the commission is concerned, I've been watching a contest in the papers and I have a feeling that the concession committee is only being made for this highway. Lawyers, economists are wanted there, and this country will have other concessions and whether it is a one-time commission or whether it will be a commission for all concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the same dilemma. So these are some dilemmas that I think should be clarified before we possibly move to the adoption of any conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1417	Thank you very much. Here you go, Deputy. Here you go, sorry, mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1418	I will only try briefly to answer the conclusions, or suggestions as they have been made, presented. I fully accept this proposal by Mr. Čengić, except for the first two and third, that the Council of Ministers draw up a dynamic plan of activities on the realisation and what you also said on the realisation of the highway on Corridor V-c. As for what Mr. Jukić said that we should create a project of study documentation, it is undeniable. Obviously there was one in the public, I don't know how and how people understand it, one mistake and thinking that the Council of Ministers, namely that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not do study analytical and project documentation. In any variant, it means any juvariant, although the concession between Bosnia and Herzegovina will do its study project documentation. And that's got to be 56 clear to everyone. Why? The Council of Ministers won't trust anyone who's been granted a concession to scold the project study documentation and that he's calculating that to us, we should give them a concession in, say, 41 or 2 or 3 years, and our file might show that it's 38. So we'll work, it's just a matter of how we find the money. I have to tell you that we planned 20 million KM in Budget for next year to produce the missing project study documentation. I have to say that in 2001. The European Commission has also funded that one of the most famous European houses has done project documentation for the Sarajevo-Zenica and Zenica-Doboj shares. For part Doboj-Svilaj is problematic because it is in some way very easy to do project documentation. The key problem is the documentation of the Sarajevo-sea. We can say that we have some physibilities to study Sarajevo-Storms. So, in fact, we don't have any paperwork just for the potty-sea stock. And that is, I must convince you and say that the Council of Ministers and Bosnia and Herzegovina will do project technical documentation, no matter how the highway was built. That's what Mr. Jukić said. And you can see that we have already prepared to discuss the prequalification for the development of project study documentation according to the World Bank criteria. What Mr. Jukić and you have specifically indicated is that the Council of Ministers must give some vision of resolving the problems of highways and fast roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, within the framework of the Ministry of Communications, an expert team has been formed which is now called for highways and fast roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the ministry will propose to the Council of Ministers in the coming period of transport policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, we've got three master plans, three regional studies. However, the Council of Ministers, i.e. the ministry, must do a single transport policy on its own in the coming period that Bosnia and Herzegovina will develop its corridors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also regarding the Adriatic-Ionian highway, it is the subject of talks with the Republic of Croatia, and it is also included in a regional study called Rebis, so the only question now is how to include the corridor. That should be so-called. The V corridor and we, I apologize, should be the VIII corridor that would go from the river below to the Black Sea and we will talk again soon with Croatia about possible points of entry, exit and length of the Corridor of the Adriatic-Ionian Road through Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, what seems to me here is that all the proposals are very acceptable, especially for the formation of the highway directorate, and that will be regulated by the Road Law we are currently working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1419	Thank you, Deputy. This is information, report, good report. It's exactly the report. Thank you. And basically that's where people explain to us what they did and where they came from. This is something that we as a report can take into account, that we know and that we feel 57 informed and that we know what the government is doing, or the Council of Ministers, and that we could follow normally. I have to say that since this will include the international monetary fund and the international financial institutions that these projects and projects of this kind are always under rigorous control of all the financiers, if you take notice of whether it's about construction, and to all the rules of the IMF it's terribly demanding, terribly difficult and these people will have a lot of trouble to fit in again with money shortages whether these are additional problems, and logically we have to say that we support the Council of Ministers to do the documentation on the basis of which they will call the bidding and ask for the most favourable bidders, yes, no one else can call to do the paperwork except the Government. Yes, please. Who? I can't have someone on the side of the snow, so we're doing the sick paperwork. Well, that's nowhere in the world. That's what I don't think he can do. The paperwork has to be done by the state, and if the state doesn't have the money, he can take the loan. That's quite clear. And there's no dilemma. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1420	I have the impression that we have actually now moved to an area that is not at this time nor the question nor the competence of Parliament, and I believe that this should be discussed by the Council of Ministers. It has information up to the detail, it knows exactly what it's about. I don't think it's necessary for us to deal with these things in any way, whether they finance, how they finance, etc. At this point I have confidence in the Council of Ministers that it can make an analysis of what is real to him. I wouldn't talk about anything else, except that we all know there's a general ban on Bosnia and Herzegovina's borrowing. Here's if you don't want a ban, then a suggestion that's on the level of ban. Therefore, one is a beautiful desire and one is the usual way of acting in the world, and the other is our real state of affairs. What I think we can agree on is this, that the Council of Ministers who started the whole activity and which leads to the need to continue to run it and look for solutions. We have the opportunity always and at all times to request new information, to be involved, and final decisions on this will have to come right to the Parliamentary Assembly. So I think that we should be careful not to engage in operations and start doing an operation that is objectively within the authority of the Council of Ministers. For this reason, respecting all the discussions we have heard so far, I believe that one general support, therefore fully general support for the Council of Ministers' activities, and I know and Mr Radovanović has asked what and how, of course, the Council of Ministers is talking to everyone right now to hear all possible proposals and probably even more suggestions, to see which one is best. If you ask me what it is, we should get the road and get it with as little pay as possible for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, first of all, keeping in mind our real obligations and the frameworks within which we have to move, first of all, financial 58 frames. So I don't think I know these details better than the Minister of the Treasury, from other members of the Council of Ministers, and therefore my proposal was of this kind, we support the activities of the Council of Ministers at this time, we suggest that they come out with this, that we get a concession committee that is general and foreseen by the Law on concessions and competitions is called upon to fully comply with the Law on concessions and thirdly to make a dynamic plan from which we will see these next activities. No Niko's stopping us from every two months, every month, every three months asking for new information and getting involved in it. It would still be good to leave it to the Council of Ministers to do that part of the operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1421	Thank you. Here we have heard Hasan Čengić. I don't think that information means anything unless you can say that you don't agree with them and that you have someone to think about. I think when we get information that we're getting information so we can form our own courts and see what's pretty much what we agree with, and what's what we disagree with. Thank you. So here's why we don't have any more debaters. I put first on the vote to say that we adopted this information from the Council of Ministers as information for Corridor V-c and I think we can join one of the evaluations that all the debaters have given that the information is quality and correct. So who's to accept this report from the Council of Ministers? Thank you very much. So we all accept it. So the second question would be, the other thing is that Mr. Hasan Čengić suggested is that, yes, Hasane, let's make the first conclusion that I don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1422	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1423	Well, here's what we gave general support and commended it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1424	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1425	I think we can get the Council of Ministers to set up operational authorities as soon as possible to lead the quality of that. I don't think you should do that. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1426	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1427	So here's the third one I think is good to say that within a month, the Council of Ministers should come up with one dynamic plan as a thought and how this project should be implemented. Who's that? I'm asking the Deputy Minister to start working on this very serious one right now, he's got a lot of work to do. Thank you. So, I think, I now consider this point of the agenda complete. And please move to the next item of the agenda, which is Ad. Information on the eviction of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. We had, do we have anyone? Mr. Minister or Assistant, no more, I'm mixing you. Come on, what can you say here?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1428	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of this High House, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees present in this information the knowledge and information of the evicted citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their associations
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1429	Please, I would.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1430	on the degree and manner of organisation of the BH diaspora points to issues of importance for emigration and proposes priorities in their resolution, and gives an overview of the realisation of certain activities and plans of activities by the end of this year. I note that this is information about certain data collected. Data can be commented in one way or another, but they only after ensuring our complete involvability can affect these data and normally guarantee them. It is therefore necessary to ensure, in particular, that the relevant partners are fully involved and to make the necessary and appropriate level of organisation necessary. 60 I would like to remind you that in front of this high house and the Act on the Emerging of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which provides for the existence of a queen at the state level and that it is necessary that its adoption be hasty. I also encourage you to think responsibly about our evictive population and the hasty adoption of this law along with, of course, all those interventions that you consider necessary. Information from this information means they can serve us on a level playing a future role in our evictive population. Since this is an informative character, I believe that you have made the necessary introduction within it and that this introduction is no longer needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1431	Thank you, too. Here we have heard the presentation of the assistant minister. Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1432	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, whatever this is an informative character, the delegates in the order of the Serbian people consider this to be partially information about the emigration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is incomplete, we even believe that the data of 931.143 are obsolete. In one part of the information is mentioned that information is obtained from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH DKP and the following are also said by associations of clubs and organisations of BH emigrants. We don't think that's necessary, because we're making parallelisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's organs and bodies. If we have the DKP and the foreign ministry we are now looking for a third situation, you are publicly admitting it. Third, Srbin and Hrvat emigrants were processed only for the former Yugoslavia's space. In the end, you, too, confirm in your information to the alliance and the roof organisation of the BH diaspora, that is to say at one point that it is an alliance of Bosniak organisations, but there is a point that they may be multiethnic alliances and associations in some future period, etc. I won't look back at student and youth associations. I believe that they are being painted as well as the other alliances, and you are not listed anywhere, it is known that Serbian associations are related to Serbia, I will not speak at all about Croatian associations, which does not mean that we should not bind Serbian associations to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you didn't admit in this information, we should publicly say that we admit that there are now three national queens of emigrants. You've shown us something hazy, there are alliances of a roof organization, it may be, I'm not judging you at all, don't, and the information you've been getting, but there are three national queens of emigrants, whether you admit it or not. We will strive to keep Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of and organise a coordinating body, because we are thus organized and emigrated and diaspora. So these are some of the remarks that we put on this information, regardless of what the information character is, we think it's partial, non-reliable, that maybe some of the data is obsolete and that, yes, pay particular attention to this parallelism that you and 61 of you here don't mention it that way, but you're saying that through these organizations we will also devalue the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1433	Thank you, Mr. Boško. Is there? Here's Mr. Čengić, when the phone call's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1434	The conversation is over. I don't consider myself sufficiently informed of the issue of emigration so that I can combine the data that I've been offered here with some other data, so that I can say that this report is complete, partial, etc. I don't consider myself so informed. Respecting that it is slowly moving towards some kind of integration and institutions, and hence data on the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on emigration, etc., I believe that no report that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina could do at this time, and even at the level of the entity would be incomplete and would not be complete. And probably one such observation of yours stands entirely. However, I cannot in any way deny this report that he did what was possible on the basis of the available data. However, let me consider one thing of particular importance here, and I thank my colleague, Šiljegović, who has made it very clear here that the associations of the Srbin emigrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina who were and were still tied to probably before that to the state of Yugoslavia, then to Serbia-Montenegro, should be bound to Bosnia and Herzegovina. To me, it's the most important fact I've heard today. I thank you for that, and I fully support it. So I think it is precisely the job and the task of us as institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take care of the eviction of all peoples, not to share emigration at all in this way, but simply to communicate with all who are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or are emigrants from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of the nationality or possible membership of minorities, if they are from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think that instead of actually discussing this report as such, it might be good to have a conversation instead of perhaps discussing what activities to take to ensure that this emigration is slow, but we systematically bind to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we tie to Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus provide all those services, all that information and all the communication that these people need to feel this country as our own, because it is. For this reason, I believe that the objections that can possibly be placed on this report technically stand. I don't think they're the result of any special political intentions, but they're primarily the result of the real situation, but the real situation needs to be changed exactly by work. And that's why I think this report is a good basis for moving on in that direction. I especially thank Mr Šiljegović for this clear expression that I am convinced we support not only everyone in this house, but usually in 62 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1435	Thank you very much. Here we have heard Mr. Hasan Čengić. While, sir, here you go, Mr. Jukić. These nationalists deal easily. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1436	This information says that the total number of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 931,143. I don't know how accurate this data is, but if it's true, and I want to believe it is, because I don't have any other information, I had some half-information and I thought that someone asked me here until a few days ago until I read this, I'd say that the number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is out of state somewhere is about 750 to 800 thousand. So this data to me personally, I admit that I'm not ashamed of it and it's in a negative sense. Even worse, here I know something about some states. Let me say that the fact that in Croatia only 29 thousand and 67 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not accurate is much greater and I am even convinced that someone already has already attributed our citizens to Croatia, i.e. they are no longer our citizens. So this number certainly exceeds a million, or it's very close to that number. That fact speaks for itself very much. It says that this is a very important and important problem and that Bosnia and Herzegovina must not just be indifferent to the fact that around a million citizens of our country, or around 25% of our population lives outside the country. And here in this information I can understand the information as here a set of facts which have been processed and written here, however, I am a little saddened by the fact that we don't have any suggestions on how to act, what to do to solve this problem in the sense that we ensure that it is a better and better position for these people while they're out, and what to do and how to do, how to make these people return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So on one side we have a little bit of bizarre that thing as a finding that diaspora supports the bulldozer commission, or project bulldozer commission. Look, I keep it like this: I said the term a little bizarre, because watch it isn't and doesn't write here about some real meaning of trying and our visions and solutions to what to do to fix this situation. True, this can be brought into context to improve the economic situation and the overall environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so let's say I can accept this. However, I consider this information to be information, but it still lacks what is important to say what it is doing and what it intends to do to take over the Council of Ministers, the resolution ministry and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I wouldn't really be spreading much, even though this is a subject I say is very interesting and very important. These problems, mentioned by Mr. Šiljegović and Čengić, are real problems and I don't know whether or not these problems are working to the extent that these problems are a little bit solved as far as possible for our diaspora as much as 63 diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only the diaspora of Hrvat from BH related to associations, etc. exclusively associations from the Republic of Croatia, Srbin from Serbia, etc. And I don't know what to do and what to really try to organize our people from Bosnia and Herzegovina to try to improve their position. A particular problem is dual citizenship. I don't know, I'll repeat again whether or not the Council of Ministers is working to address this important problem. We've had such a subject recently at one of our sessions. This subject we have seems to me again to amend and supplement the Law on Double Citizenship, etc. We have our own solution, which is about the way we want to handle it. But the question is, it's very important here not only for us, but also for other countries where our citizens live. Because it doesn't have to be what we want it to be. Many countries do not want and will not have a dual state institute, so our citizens are then particularly in an awkward situation in these countries. Here's what I'm going to end up with is that I think this is a much bigger and bigger problem than we're giving him, at least what I have on information that we're giving him and what we're doing is that this problem is at least partly and how much it's possible to solve and start solving.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1437	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Is anyone else picking up? Here, if there are no debaters, I suggest that this information be accepted, i.e. take into account several notes that lead in the direction that the Ministry should in a certain way come up with a project on how to solve these problems. I think this information should be accepted, and most likely somewhere in the first quarter of next year, we'll probably be in a position to discuss an annual report of this ministry and give it a definitive court. I'm taking this information to the polls. Who's in it for us to accept it? Thank you very much. So, we all agree, we accept this information. We have more, please I apologize Mr. Šiljegović was restrained, excellent, well sorry, please. Exactly no one has anything, thank you very much. Please, we have two more points. I'd like us to be a little more expedient. We've got this project, we've got one you'd like to go over there and tell people to make coffee when they get out of here so they can have coffee for iftar. It doesn't go baklava for iftar. Information on the implementation of the CIPS project Please, do we have someone here from the Ministry just to say this: The College of the House of Peoples of 11/07 asked the Council of Ministers to place, to provide information on the implementation of the CIPS project, the 12th session of the House also requested one information, so the Ministry provided one information and we realized that 64 was incomplete and that it did not answer the questions that we asked for and which Dom requested, and here came new information and we have here and we have a colleague here from the Council of Ministers who will now tell us about this CIPS and I ask that we keep it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1438	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am the director of the CIPS Implementation Directorate, Mirko Škrbić. So, according to your conclusion, from the 12th session, we delivered this supplement 21st 10th through the Ministry, but I heard in the break, that it was not divided to you in the meantime probably divided. However, I would briefly explain to you what this supplement applies to. So you specifically asked to supplement the information on the tendering of the best bidder.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1439	I have one thing I have to do, okay, we've been watching this, that information quite late, but I think Mr. Škrbić should tell us a few sentences about the possibility in a shorter version of being somewhat informed, but we need to know right away that the House, that Parliament and the College of Parliament, is terribly unhappy with the relationship between you and the complete project and the information about this project. After all this information, this home will most likely be determined according to the complete project and normally according to the performer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1440	I've got a protocol here that says it was delivered on the 21st 10th, and now I don't know where it went wrong. _______: It was 15 to 3 when I was with Miss Elmom... [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1441	Well done, eh, Mr. Škrbić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1442	We have meant to you previously, at the previous request, given the information that was, which has been related to the period since 15 May 2002, since the CIPS Imlementation Directorate was formed. So this means that it couldn't have been information about the tendering process or the tender procedure at all, because the Directorate didn't take part in it. 65 So, this tender procedure has been conducted by OHR since the beginning of 2000. Since there was no law on public procurement, as far as I know, there is no law today. They chose one procedure of a global trade organisation related to projects of particular importance for national security, and there were not only CIPS, but there was a parallel procedure for several projects. For two projects co-financed by the United States government. So the project of the so-called criminal registry or standard police reports, and the project of informing the state border service, and the CIPS has been a joint leader since the beginning of 2000. So, the process was attended by representatives of all the flies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and representatives of the then Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. The tender procedure was concluded in the mandate of the Council of Ministers that preceded the Council of Alliance Ministers and then the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications informed the company "Simens" that it was selected by a single letter means, as an integral, before that principle of working on the rules of the world trade organisation for projects of interest for state security, they were specifically chosen by offering for co-projects, so that Simens eventually appeared as an integral, as a guarantee that all those under performers were also certain companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were selected to produce software. These were several companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which later formed one co-ordination. So, afterwards, the Council of Ministers of the Alliance asked that this procedure be reviewed by the exercise of the tender, and the appropriate committee requested it, answered that request by a detailed report which was given here in the annex, meaning that it consisted of some 13 pages, which was just described in detail what I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1443	A little bit, I've got to break something up for you. It's a little too wide, and secondly, we're this one, asking if, are you coming here as a representative of the Council of Ministers or the Directorate, or this project CIPS? We asked for information from the Council of Ministers, and I think, I thank you and indeed but this chronology of what was going on, it's good to know those who don't know, but we're looking for one score now, one general state of what's going on with that CIPS, why a class of citizens is unhappy, why there aren't any of those documents that need to be published and why this doesn't work at all, it doesn't work very badly and it works with a low delay. If it was in the Alliance of Excess and Failures, this council of ministers had plenty of time to correct it and to make it work, and why it wasn't done. That's what we're interested in at this point, because the CIPS project at least is a general impression that it doesn't work very well. Please, it's a general impression that there's a government in this city in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now to talk chronology about this project, I think and what happened, why Simens got it 66 and why it wasn't someone else and how it was done, it doesn't really matter. It's important to explain why the project doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1444	I think what came from the Ministry to make this addition was just a request to clarify this tender procedure. Zachi, you have full information here. I wouldn't talk about it any further. As for how the CIPS project works. The CIPS project works according to the plan, and I think it works in relation to the conditions under which the project is run, so how is it financed that the project works extremely well. I mean, that's my personal opinion, and that kind of opinion would also give any court of experts, people who understand the realisation of complex state information systems. Otherwise, on the world level, the success of information systems, this type of order is 20%. We think that according to the realisation plan that envisioned two phases in line with the budgetary funding opportunities, we are working and implementing this plan. So the first part of the plan was the realization in the 20 largest cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representing half the population, because it was financed from last year's budget. This year's budget has remained funded, as open accreditations for this year are somewhere in April or early May, so by dynamics it arrived, right now we are equipping the remaining municipalities. We have now established a network in some 55 largest cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think this project is working according to the necessary dynamics. It should be over by the end of next year. I mean, this project certainly can't cause pleasure. Every project of mass exchange of documents cannot be satisfied, can't be avoided by once-in-a-lifetime crowds on the counters, although we have determined in accordance with world standards this required number of equipment, the required number of counters, etc. We are certainly limited by the capabilities of the personnel police.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1445	Osman, I beg you sit down, here's a man to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1446	That we cannot do, however, a similar project is now being parallelized in Croatia or started. There are rows 10 times longer, everything in the MUPs is realized, just as it used to be with us. I think you should have really some sort of standards when you're getting the right grades. I'm definitely behind what I said and I thank you for your attention. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1447	Thank you, too. Here's the show, this Mr. Škrbić is, here's Mr. Genjac's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1448	I ask you to keep in mind for the next ten minutes we should be bringing an end to the Bosniak Club for reasons that both Ramazan and the time of the iftar, so we can either work after that or try to finish this in the next 10 minutes. In addition, we have received first one report on the CIPS, which was from the cabinet of ministers and information accepted by the Council of Ministers. This was one information with chronology, technically some data, which did not contain this significant part of the tender report. That supplement, that report we got two hours or an hour and a half ago, and it's very significant. I think that this item of the agenda should end in the following way: If we don't bother each other, we should take the act off the agenda, and the College should send a memo to the Council of Ministers, in which it will precisely ask for what is in the report, what else is the report to contain, to deliver it thoroughly to us in time, to prepare ourselves and to hold a discussion afterwards. I think it's the only possible thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1449	I'll hook you up. I'm sorry. brkati'll get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1450	I'm not hungry. It's not true that I'm hungry. The whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been very often informed of various developments in the CIPS project, where various malversions and coins are being talked about. I'm asking you here in the report we got, I just went through it, I didn't read it, I apologize. There's not a single table on any financial means, whether you're dealing with money or working without money. I want to see that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1451	Thank you, Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1452	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be critical about this problem, and it would be self-critical and I would be ashamed and ashamed to make a decision on this project. My assessment is that we are no match for the implementation of this project that's here. That's my grade, I have a right to say it. And why am I saying that, because dozens or hundreds of inscriptions from the beginning to the day, and the negative ones were in the press and all kinds of information and malversions, especially financial ones. This made me, uh, 68 to come out here because the other day on this particular subject, I had an intervention in my place, or Travnik, where I was from a wider family, showed the need to go to Novi Sad, my bride, where I intervened. Believe me, I'd get a lot more before one, one passport to win, which in Travnik was 7-8 in the same municipality, and that was the last 2-3 months that I've known. These last days, I think we've met up with at least a dozen ambassadors and we've given each critic a visa. Well, gentlemen, what do we have to talk about visas when we don't have basic documents? And therefore, the evaluation here should be given to this project, that is, its execution, this House and I think gentlemen for the haste here and the Bosniak people, or the Club, so that we can't make any good conclusions here right now. Mr. President, I suggest you take this to the next session and complete the report financially and in every form. And therefore, let's discuss it in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1453	Thank you, too. Are you gonna answer it?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1454	Here, if this is accepted, I'm not giving up...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1455	So here, I'm going to put it now, and here we have heard the debaters, and I think it's time that what's presented to us now can't be, can't MPs or Parliament of the House of Peoples, the House of Peoples can't be satisfied with the information, and that we're going to ask for further information from the Council of Ministers, and that at the first next session we're going to continue the debate on the CIPS project. Is this good, thank you very much. That would be the conclusion. Who's to say this, excuse me? Thank you very much. No one's against it. There's no one abstentioned. And we have this point and report from the Election Commission, the moment and, the report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the General Elections 2002 in Bosnia and Herzegovina Is there anyone short, short, Hilmo. Quick, these people are just satisfied with this form. Don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1456	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the Electoral Law, is required to submit a report to the Parliamentary 69 of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly, an annual report. The report is made up, as you can see, it's quite extensive. In fact, it covers everything the Election Commission has done, which was done by the Secretariat of the Election Commission in the election process of the 2002 General Elections, and that is why we didn't think it was necessary to submit an introductory presentation. If he has any questions, I'm at his disposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1457	Thank you very much, Hilmo. It was an observation. There are many questions, there was one remark, why this late after the election report, but you're saying it's an annual report, and yet in that time it's done this one,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1458	The annual report, it was finished as seen this, in March of the month. However, the procedure itself as it participates in the work of the Election Commission and the members of the OHR and the OSC should be translated into English, then re-entered 2-3 times, corrected etc. which withdrew the delivery of the report to the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1459	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague we've heard if we're going to accept this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1460	Don't accept this, I think we should talk about all the questions that were mentioned earlier, when Mr Hilmo was not here, on behalf of the Commission about these issues with the Commission, say what we think about, for an agreement on some issues
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1461	Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1462	This is an important topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1463	From where, here's where I have to say, do you accept?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1464	I can ask very quietly, just to hear them, I apologize if you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1465	Please, you can. So, yeah, I'll ask if we accept, you don't vote, so we'll mean 70. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1466	But don't, I wouldn't think it would take us a little longer, I still respect
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1467	/He didn't come out for a pay phone/ I apologize, that we're going to accept now with this receipt... report and continue to work
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1468	With Questions From Reports
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1469	That's right, let's continue the debate, when we talk about
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1470	Preparation for local elections, can you do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-29-0.u1471	Here I suggest, therefore, the proposal is that we take this report to the conclusion that we continue to discuss the report at a time when we are talking about preparation for the municipal elections. Do we accept that? Who's in? Thank you very much, unanimously, thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you and congratulate us all, but I can't talk anymore. The session ended at 4:50.
