ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u811	I invite you to go to work. Dear envoys, your Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the media, I welcome all present. I am opening the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 envoys present at the session, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Halid Genjac is justified. He's on his way. For the 10th session, I suggest the next updated agenda. New points soup of regular number 3 and 10. Agenda, I'll read it. So until the agenda divides, I'll say we're under regular number 3. The 10th and 15th proposed new points, now you'll get it and you'll see what's going on. I'll start by reading the agenda for a stenogram. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions 2. The adoption of minutes 8 and 9 of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 3. Declaration by the People's House on the Joint Commission's report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH; 4. The Act on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum – Second Reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 6. General directions and priorities in implementing BiH's foreign policy – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 7. Plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 8. Giving consent to ratifying the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, Paris on 2 September 1949 of the Protocol of 6 November 1992 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 2 9. Proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement on the Promotion of Investment Protection between BiH and OPEC, the International Development Fund – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 10. Proposal for a Decision on the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement – Small Commercial Agriculture Development Project, Credit number 3742 between BiH and the World Bank of the International Association for IDA Development – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 11. Giving consent to the cancellation of bilateral agreements between BiH and the Czech Republic – Proposer of the BiH Presidency (a) Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of the Czech Republic since 20 January 2000, (b) Agreement on trade and navigation between the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and the Republic of Czechoslovakia of 14 November 1928, (c) Cooperation Agreements to combat violations of customs and foreign currency regulations since 12 November 1976, 12 November 1976. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period of February - May 2003; 13. Report from the spring session of NATO's Parliament Assembly 14. Report on the financial operations of the Public Business NEO Official Journal; 15. Information on activities to prepare the construction of the Corridor 5c highway. You heard the proposed agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Who wants to hear from you? Mr. Hasan Čengić. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u812	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable House Presidency, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions, other present and media representatives, I would take the opportunity, if you would allow me to propose only small changes in the schedule of the current agenda, so I would suggest that the report on the work of the Commission for the Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period February-May 2003 become the 8th point, instead of 12. That the proposal for a decision on ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and OPEC remains 9. So, despite the movements to remain the 9th point and give consent to cancel bilateral agreements between BiH and the Czech Republic to be the 10th item of the agenda. Here, just this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u813	I thank Mr. Čengić. Tospodin Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u814	Dear Mr. President and Vice-President, the esteemed representative of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, representatives of public 3 information, professional services, the Presidency and other state institutions, who attend this session, I am at our last session, because Minister Kebo, or the Council of Ministers, did not respond to our Rules of Procedure's question, asked the College to include, in accordance with Article 121(5), in the draft agenda a point relating to the recruitment of returnees. I don't know why the College didn't put a point in the agenda proposal for today's session, because it's mandatory to do so under the Rules of Procedure. But even if it were not, a business obligation, he should have done so, given the importance of the issues of return and their employment as a condition, that he would have been sustainable, and given the fact that yesterday and the House of Representatives adopted the Strategy and the return plan, so I appreciate that, given that we have received this document much earlier, he was finally done in December last year and I see no reason why we are delaying this issue, and my question is, in fact, one of the issues mentioned in this strategy and, of course, if we can hold a debate today on the problem of the strategy, I will be involved in my discussion in this segment, which I say, is listed in the Strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u815	Just a minute. Say it again. You're asking to place a point called, how we're going to formulate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u816	I have formulated it and delivered it to you in written form – more hiring returnees with special emphasis on their employment in public and state-owned enterprises, institutions and authorities at all levels, but I say I am ready, if the strategy goes, to fit in with this problem through my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u817	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u818	Honorable chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, I have something similar to what Mr. Limov had, only on the other topic. In April, I asked a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Dragan Čović, whom I did not get an answer to today. On several occasions at last session, I warned and delayed putting it on the agenda. However, I am, indeed, asking the College and the House to respect Article 121 and to respect Article 5. If the answer is not delivered within the time limit referred to in Article 121(3), the applicant may ask the College to include the question required by the answer in the agenda of the next meeting of the House. I'm asking that it be included in today's session. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u819	Just repeat the exact question, Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u820	You received the issue in writing, requesting a statement from Mr. Dragan Čović, a member of the presidency, now BiH's chairman-in-Office on an interview he gave to the Vašington Tajmsu on 17.03.2003. I'll talk about it here, when the agenda is set.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u821	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Who else is reporting on the agenda debate? No more reports. Thank you. I'm now going to take a statement on the proposals for a revision of the agenda. We have heard from Mr. Čengić, and we have also heard a reason to have a certain rotation, i.e. a shift in the order of the agenda points: point 12 of the proposal to go to point 8 and point 10 of the proposal to go to point 11. to go to place 10 and to move alone and get a new numbering, yes, the 9th remains 9. This is Mr. Čengić's proposal. We heard the argument, because it's the rapporteur, or president of the commission, so he's going to be a reporter at these points, and there's some obligations agreed earlier, so here's what we're going to do. Who's in favour of Mr. Čengić's proposal? Who's in? Who is against? Who is abstention? I thank and realize that, unanimously with 14 votes, we adopted Mr. Čengić's proposal to move the dots as it is said, so the point under number 12 will be number 8 in item number 10 and the rest will go in order as it stands. Let's go to Mr. Tomislav Lim's proposal. So it's an unresponsible envoy's question and Mr. Limov is asking us to put it on the agenda. It's just another dilemma here that wasn't said. College suggested, we suggested, Dom changes. So, Mr Limov asked that today's session agenda include the question of hiring returnees in state institutions, and that's all it means. So not only the state, but the entity, the county, the municipalities and all those that are public constitutionals, were related by state institutions. Mr. Nada Radović
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u822	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues and dear guests, 5 In order to work more efficiently and, with respect to Mr Lim and Mr Brk's demands, and with respect to the Rules of Procedure, the College is proposing agenda and I think Article 121 of point 5 is said, the answer, if it is not obtained in that requested form, is not satisfied with the proposal, the College is asking the question on the agenda for the next session. I would suggest, if the College decides to prepare for the next session, with all due respect that we can, I think that the issues deserve a quality debate and that we may have a quality discussion, we must have prepared materials. I would suggest, if the College decides to have this on the agenda for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u823	I thank Mr. Radović. Mr. Brka wants to talk. Mr. brkati, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u824	I think you're my witnesses, that at three or four sessions I've postponed and waited for an answer, which I've never received. Since it was my good intention to do it in a correct way, I think it's more to wait, it really doesn't make sense. I don't think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u825	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Limov wants to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u826	My fellow envoys, I, of course, just want to say that Article 44(1) obliges the College to put this on the agenda proposal. However, at all costs, it is not my goal to do what I stand for. If the House today sets out its commitment to the next session on the agenda, which I think is mandatory, then I will accept, because the intention is, therefore, to hold a thorough debate on one, on one of the most important issues in post-itton BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u827	I thank Mr. Limov. I understood this, Mr. Nada Radović suggested that these points that would be included, on the basis of Article 121 of point 5. So, no answer to the envoy's questions, should we put them on the agenda of our next session. However, here, we have had people who have sent these questions to the envoys, and they have not received an answer, asking that this be put on the agenda today. I'm inclined to think about people who have sent envoy questions about it having the right, here, to seek respect for the Rules of Procedure in paragraph 121 of point 5 and, of course, that we here today, as the House, decide on it, and I think that we should make this clear. Mr. Limov, do you accept Mr. Nada Radović's proposal or are we going to put your point in? 6 Mr. brkati, do you want to go today or are we going to the next session? Make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u828	My suggestion is clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u829	Okay, I got this. So, Mr. Limov, as a promoter, accepted that it goes to the next session, when we will put our conclusion, and Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u830	I'd like a very short one. I understand Mr. Brk, who was very patient in seeking this answer, which does not satisfy him, and does not satisfy the Bosniak Club to be very clear, but I think it would be good if we agreed today that both points, to agree today, to plead today for both points to go for the next session and, if it is understandable that Mr. brkati can't support that position alone, but if we all agree to go for the next session, then so we vote not to emphasize ourselves, and Mr. brkati, of course, for principled reasons, can stay in this position and take advantage of the opportunity to prepare for both points and the material, so that these points will be content and give results.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u831	I think the explanation is very reasonable. If Mr. brkati accepts that, and I think that's a good solution. Mr. Brk? You accept. Okay. Well, then, here's the deal. We agreed that these two points, which were proposed, would be a proposal for him we would declare to be included in our next, next session of the House of Peoples. Who's for a proposal like this, by these two points? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that with 13 votes for, with one vote against, without abstentions, it is decided that these two points should be placed on the agenda of our next session, i.e. 11. I thank and call for a statement on the overall agenda, with these amendments that we have already adopted. Who's on the agenda like this? Who's in? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that we unanimously adopted this agenda, with a change in the order of these points. I thank and move on to the 1st item of the agenda. 7 Ad.1. Answers to the envoy's questions and envoy's questions I'm opening the debate. Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u832	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I asked a question on May 21st for this pay phone, which read. What has been done by the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH to implement the House of Human Rights Decision, which was ordered by the Federation to stop discrimination against the pensioners in the Federation by 10 July 2003 at the latest, that is, all citizens who have obtained their right to retire to pensions in the field of Federation and provide basic human rights, the right to pension, the right to timely treatment, health care, and whether the Government of the Federation of BiH, through the competent institutions, will begin implementing the mentioned decision of the House on Human Rights within that deadline? I, too, was dissatisfied as Mr. Brka, Mr. Limov, didn't get an answer in time. I went public, in a way I invited all the measuring organs to engage in solving this issue. So, with the deadline breaking, twice as long, I got an answer to the parliamentary question, which was, like this, pretty vague. I got it seven days ago, and if it was dated on 27.06. o.g. In that answer, here, I think that we are demeaning ourselves here and as Parliament's Assembly, here's proof of that and the mistake in my name in addressing me is calling me Milivojević. So, I do not take it seriously enough that they think that this is the problem of the BiH Parliament, they take our issues seriously, and simply, without enough respect, they don't refer to us as representatives of the legislative authority, or of the BiH Parliament, it's both the blackmail of the BiH institutions and of the rest of us sitting here. In that response, written by Mr Radovan Vignjević, Minister of Labour and Social Policy in the Federation of BiH government, there was no decoded answer to my asked question, but I tried to read here between the ranks and for me, in some ways it was encouraging and I expected, here, that question will be resolved, because, you see here, I will try to read. According to the information we have already received, appropriate preparations have been taken, so that the returnees of the Federation will, etc. So they don't have complete information either. I learned from the funds that the representatives of federal pension disability insurance, that they simply intend to play this decision at the House of Human Rights and that, in practice, the Federation government did not specifically act on the application of this decision, or its PIO fund. The Federation government of this, apparently, has just vague intentions to forward this issue to the right address and as an executive body foresees 8 realisation of the House's decision on human rights. Since this decision by the House of Human Rights set the deadline, which was 10th of July, we can see for ourselves today 18th of July that, practically, the government of the Federation has done nothing about it. What is most disturbing, I would dare say, astounds the position of the Federation Government in which that decision has to be applied only to specific cases and not as a general principle. So, the Federation government is prepared to apply this decision only to those who asked for the realisation of these rights before the House of Human Rights, and there were few, and not to all 25,000 pensioners, how directly they addressed the Federal Pension Fund. With this response and understanding of the problem, the Federation Government has, in practice, shown that human rights should be exercised in litigation and non-judicial proceedings, and the House of Human Rights, instead of the institution, which has made decisions of general importance, has given the character of a litigation court, whose decisions relate only to participants in the litigation process. Such insights certainly do not contribute to the construction of the legal order, do not contribute to building trust in authorities and government institutions, and at least contribute to all those projects, which are being launched before this Parliament, and, as a reason, i.e. objectives, most often state the need to protect human rights. For these reasons, I appeal to all of you colleagues here to get involved in resolving this issue and, at the same time, to seek the right to do everything that I, as a delegate of this House, belongs to me from proposing an appropriate resolution to submitting an appropriate advance to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. As soon as it seems, neighbouring countries are ready to address this issue, rather than domestic authorities. Here, the Republic of Croatia, as it informed us on a recent visit, that is to say, Mr Račan, Prime Minister, has already taken the measures provided for in the social insurance agreement. I have checked it in the pensioners' associations and I have seen it is indeed so, and a similar agreement with Serbia-Montenegro is signed and a ratification is pending in our parliamentary assembly. It seems that only within BiH should these rights be exercised individually in administrative procedures. So this time I end up, maybe I took a little too much, I invite you all to engage in the protection of the basic human rights of pensioners in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u833	Thank you, Mr. Milovijević. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u834	Given the importance of the questions you have raised, Mr. Milojević, I'm sure you haven't taken too much time. I hope I fit in, too, from the times you've spent. In fact, 70 days after I asked my envoy's question to the security minister, Mr Čolak Bariša, the Council of Ministers found the answer. Unlike nine of my previous steps, I must say, this time I am satisfied with the answer. Satisfyed in terms of access, which had the relevant ministry and the Council of Ministers, in terms of, above all, the figures, which I believe are correct, although there are certain objections, not of too much importance, primarily the calculation of percentages, because, for example, the federal MUP, according to the regulation, to the soul of the old 1,464 is planned, is engaged 1,266, so the percentages should be counted against those involved, because no rules have ever been implemented until the end. But, well, that's a less important question. What I'm not happy with, and I believe anyone who reads this answer, so all the envoys, I'm not satisfied with the state these figures paint. The reasons for my dissatisfaction are as follows: 1. The response shows that on the 26th of May of the current year, an old regulation on the internal formation of the federal interior ministry, and if the government of the Federation of BiH agreed in December on a new regulation which, otherwise, was a fundamental condition for the IPTF to be awarded a certificate to the Federal Ministry of Interior. According to the new rule, the number of executors in the federal MUP is 1,000. Since I know the reason for this approach and will say something more about the 6th item of the agenda about it, I accept the total of 1,266 jobs in the BiH Federation MUP and then it is visible in that sense: 895 Bošnjak versus 1266 is 70.69% - 239 Hrvat is 18.87% - 105 Srbin is 8.29% and 27 others is 2.13%. In order to properly assess these figures and percentages, it is important to recall the obligations of the Sanpeterbu Agreement, which are in line with the 1991 census. So, with constitutional changes, the basis of the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision on the equality of all three constituent nations and others in the overall territory of BiH. These total percentages are for federal MUP 50% Bošnjak, 22%, 20% Srbin and 8% others. Starting from these percentages, it is obvious what needs to be done in the federal MUP to meet constitutional obligations and get the true multiethnic police. Secondly, in the management structure of the federal MUP, we have the nine most important positions of five Bošnjak or 55% - 3 Hrvat or 33% and 1 Srbin or 11%. It is clear that in this sense the situation is almost fine, but it is not good enough either, with one move being brought into the frames of the ideal. Third, what to say about figures and percentages related to the RS MUP. We have 93.95% of Srbin, 4.77% of Bošnjak – 0.78% of Hrvat and 0.28% of others. If this adds to the fact that there are all nine Srbin executive positions, it is, in my deep conviction, and I believe that you share my opinion far from the true multiethnic police. This is the responsibility of those representatives of the international community, who are in charge of building a multiethnic police force and who give consent to setting people up at all, above all, authorized positions. Obviously, it is the different standards of those who do not commit our domestic courts to comply with the interests and needs of the BiH state. 10 Fourth, the explanation in the response given as an excuse for the existing situation is unacceptable. Is it possible that none of the 509 non-Serbs working at the RS MUP deserve to behave as one of the nine executive duties. Fifth, as regards the part of the response, which relates to the detection of low wages, as the reason why we are unable to achieve the multiethnicity of police in the RS MUP. It is clear that this question should be considered very seriously. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in its search for a solution, needs to put this on the agenda and put it on the agenda as soon as possible in its work programme. Especially in this regard, we must make sure that our police are paid much better than they are today. The police are a pillar of the state and a police officer for the same job should get the same salary on every inch of BiH. That, therefore, is my deep conviction. It is our duty to seek solutions in that direction. That kind of approach helps everyone, and it's not on anybody's side. Are we ready to improve the status of those without whom there is no state, especially not the state, rights or the rule of law, it's not up to the police to us. And, in the end, please, Mr. President, would you allow me just a few words so I won't answer again, and it's about asking an envoy's question? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u835	Sure, you've been way past Goran's time, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u836	Thank you very much. I fit in this first part, so this second part is going to be a little bit shorter, so it's going to be standard. Namely, at our 3rd session, held on 25 February O.G. I've asked the envoy's question to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Slobodan Kovač. The issue referred to the situation in BiH's criminal sites. The Council of Ministers on 29 April identified the answer to my question. I expressed my dissatisfaction with the answer at our 7th session on May 21st. So, 47 days ago. On that occasion, I also asked two additional questions and pointed out that in a series of obligations ahead of BiH, on its Europeanisation path and compliance with the prescribed standards in criminal institutions regarding human rights of prisoners, spatial conditions, number of prisoners, quality of accommodation, nutrition, infrastructure, etc. Starting with the above, I have asked two questions, and what is the situation in BiH's criminal institutions and what must we do to meet the standards and international conventions. And, secondly, whether the situation is the same in the field of the Federation and in the RS area and if it is not what the differences are seen in. Unfortunately, until today I have not received an answer, as the Minister and the Council of Ministers did not respect the provisions of Article 121(3). Our Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with paragraph 5 of this same article, I am asking the College to include these questions, to which I have asked for an answer, necessarily, in the draft agenda of the next session of the House of Parliamentary 11 of BiH, I am delivering questions in writing, and I ask that we do not hold a discussion at the next session as to the previous issue that we do not seek compromises. There's no need. It's got to be a month, a month and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u837	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Who else wants to talk under this agenda? Since there are no more reports, I'm the one who concludes. Mr. Ante Spajić. Here you go. This is, the point is the envoy's questions and answers to the envoy's questions. Therefore, answers and questions are new.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u838	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here I have a few questions in front of the Croatian envoys' club, since it is very serious and important issues, I am not only asking for an urgent answer, but also a qualitative solution to their question. First question to the Council of Ministers. What does the Council of Ministers intend to do, in connection with the OHR and OSCE's attempt to organise a course at Fra Dominik Mandic High School in Mostar, contrary to the Framework Law on Primary and Medium Education in BiH, and the County Law on Fundamental and Medium Education and Education of the Herzegovina-Neretva County? We're looking for a written answer. Next question to the president of the House of Peoples. When will a parliamentary commission be formed - a committee to determine the facts of human rights violations in Arizona? This is the second time you've asked this question. The next issue is the Minister of Transport and the Federation of BiH's ties. How much is agreed with the contractor at 11km of Sarajevo highway – Iliaš, and how much is really going to fall out? We're looking for a written answer. The Council of Ministers. When will the Council of Ministers provide the conditions and what are the conditions under which BiH citizens will go to elections with the presentation of an identification document, a passport, or when will the Election Commission agree with the local electoral commission to vote, in order to avoid registering citizens almost every year? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u839	Thank you, Mr. Spajić. Who else wants to talk under this point? No more reports, and I'm closing this agenda. We're moving on to the next second. 12 Adm.2. The adoption of the 8th and 9th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parlmentary Assembly of BiH you have received in your materials this minutes. Does anyone need to talk about them? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u840	Mr. Chairman, ma'am, only with point 15 is the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. The participants of the debate on this agenda are listed here. As I recall, I came out here and talked a little longer about this law and everything I thought should be said under this law. But I've been left out here. Please correct, if necessary, if my story was so irrelevant, then it shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u841	I thank Mr. Zrn. Who else needs to talk about this point, under this point? If not, I suggest we adopt the minutes of the 8th and 9th sessions, with correction and clarification, of what Mr. Zrna has brought here. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 8th and 9th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with the necessary complement to be made by Mr Branko Zrno. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. A statement by the People's House on the report of the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH received a report. Does anyone need to comment on this or this, talk about this? If not, I suggest we adopt this report. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission's report by both homes on reaching an agreement on the same text of the law on amendments and additions to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH. Ad.4. The Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum – Second Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 13 The Law was adopted in the previous session in the first reading. Now it's a second reading, based on the conclusion of the House of Peoples. The law was reconsidered by the competent commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The Commission adopted amendments, which became an integral part of the text of the law and there were no new amendments. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum at the 15th session, held on 17 June 2003. Who wants to take your word for it? Mr. Hasan Čengić. Mr. Čengić, go ahead. Is there any need on behalf of the Proposer? All right, Mr. Čengić, if necessary, then on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u842	So, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, esteemed present, I will be here at this hour, if you allow me to address the chairman in two functions. So, as chairman of the committee responsible, who has considered this law, but also as a delegate in this House, who has accepted the amendments and proposed amendments to this House. So, as the chairman has already said, this law has been considered in the previous assembly, and then in this meeting the House of Representatives, together with a significant number of amendments, has adopted this law and is thus adopted. According to information available to the relevant ministries, the Council of Ministers has also accepted these amendments and they are included in the composition of the text adopted in the House of Representatives. When it comes to our home, we have discussed the amendments on the commission, which I formally proposed, and it is the exact same amendments, without any amendments already proposed and accepted at the House of Representatives, so the basic point of view was that by accepting the amendments, we are actually talking about the same text and that if we adopt the text today to adopt the text, the text of the law is adopted equally in both homes, so that we finally have the law. If you'll just give me a few words. I believe that this law is extremely important, not only because it regulates very important issues and very important issues of residence and movement of foreigners and asylum, but especially because we do not have a law in BiH at this time, which uniformly regulates this matter. There is no and, in this way we were, indeed, to say on the margins of what is common in a modern, developed and democratic world, while at the same time declaring our obligations to go towards European standards, to respect human rights, etc. So I think that this law is one of the most important laws on the one hand, and on the other hand, that I very much embrace it and that it essentially solved all the important issues, which, by the way, are treated and solved by such laws in the world. The amendments proposed are essentially going to specify the basic concepts and it is the fact that at the beginning of the law there are precise definitions, and it is defined that the ministry, and then is using the continued term of the Ministry of Security, as far as 14 of the Ministry of Security is concerned, except that the Ministry of Interior and Canton and the Police of the Brcko District are concerned, and so on. The amendments essentially specify and improve the text, not only in new technology, but also in some senses. What is particularly important is that I point out the following facts. Yes, now that this law is in place, there are no more misunderstandings about what is happening to anyone who is at the borders of BiH. It is very precise what kind of documents there are, which additional documents should be provided, how they can get a visa, when they can lose a visa, when they can get the right to our temporary and permanent stay, when they can appear with an asylum application, or what if someone finds themselves in the state of BiH, and there are no documents that can prove their identity. What is particularly interesting and what I consider also to be a very important thing and by contributing this law to the future work of BiH institutions, are the fact that the precise holders of material obligations, i.e. financial obligations, which can arise as a result of the stay and movement of foreigners or asylum seekers. So it's very precisely defined, who can call a stranger, who can issue such a call, what should be in that call. Who decides? What time? What are the first of all who consider his rights to be compromised, but at the same time the financial obligations of all those in that chain? Among other things, perhaps, when it comes to amendments, to be exact, namely, only one amendment is brand-new. So, as a whole new one, this is Amendment 21, which concerns Article 30, which defines what is happening to a stranger, who, for any reason, finds himself in BiH and has no identification documents and is determined that he will remain in control, with certain supervision, clearly precise, clear and who is in charge until his full identity is determined. It is also important that this law creates new obligations for BiH institutions, because at this time BiH has no organised, structured institutions, which would automatically accept these obligations, so it will take a transitional period in which a new organisation of functioning or the application of this law and institutions will take immediate responsibility. Finally, it seems to me that the relationship of competent institutions is very clearly defined, so that there will be no ambiguity, overlap, no understanding or uncertainty in terms of the jurisdiction of state institutions, entity institutions, cantonal, municipal etc. Let me get this straight. I believe that this law is an extremely important law, that it can be considered among those laws, which are objectively not only laws governing BiH as a modern country, but also a reform law, in the sense that it allows for very clear functioning and coordination with other countries and there is no doubt that by adopting this law, as a state, we will be compatible with those standards that are being implemented today in Europe and in the modern world and, in fact, by accepting this law, we are taking a step further towards what is called integration on one side. On the other hand, it explains a series of ambiguities, which so far existed in legislation, but also in 15 operations, how these problems should be addressed and, on the third hand, ensuring a very high level of protection of human rights for all who are concerned by this law and, in this way, we are actually in a situation that anyone who wants to come to BiH, before it comes, has a very clear picture. Of course, in the end, I'll be clear on one thing. There is no dilemma that this law in some solutions could have been more flexible. There's a lot of solutions. I'll only name one thing. This law provides for the possibility of obtaining a visa for stay in BiH for up to a year, and if you know that in a number of countries in the world it is possible to obtain a visa for five and ten years at a time. So, in that part of the law, this law is, perhaps still a little inflexible, likely to show up some more things, such as getting permanent stay, speeding up procedures for getting permanent stay for investors, etc. However, I also have an explanation and an excuse for this attitude. However, this is huge progress in relation to the existing situation and the existing legislation, and I believe that the application of this law will show all its positive sides, and probably show some of the points that need to be fixed, which will be done earlier. Finally, this law, I find it very important, will help BiH and BiH institutions to gain incomparably better control over the movement and residence of foreigners, but also, with regard to what is called human trafficking, which is why this region, including BiH, is in some way still, as far as BiH is concerned, perhaps a little and too unjustly called in the international public. I believe that, therefore, by adopting this law, these problems will be significantly reduced and that BiH will, in this way, cease to be the subject of any international talks, of course, about human trafficking, of course, after implementation. Let me get this straight. As an amendment promoter, I think it would be necessary and I would like to invite you all colleagues to accept these amendments and the reasons for these amendments. It would be necessary to adopt them, in order to have the text of the law identical in this and the House of Representatives, on one side. And, secondly, I think it would really be necessary for us to say today about this law, to accept it in this text as proposed and thus contribute to the further strengthening of the functions of all the authorities in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u843	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. On behalf of the working body he spoke, but he also had part of a personal debate. Any word from who next? If you don't, I'll just take a brief look at my, brief review and a question for, here's Deputy Minister Mektić, but I'll do it very briefly. From 4th to 9th of this month, the annual parliamentary assembly, the meeting of the OSCE Parlmaentar Assembly in Rotterdam, was held. Me, Mr. Zoran Spasojević and Mrs. Palavrić, were in the delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and, what is good, and it is about this law, for this problem is the fact that BiH is not mentioned for the first time in a negative light or any context. 16 However, it should be said here that one of the problems that is significant, and it is related to this region is human trafficking and, I am here respecting Mr. Mektić a concrete question. Is it sufficiently, by this law, but also by other attributes that should follow, but now this law, this problem is seen in a single way through the law? Because what I'm saying to us and to this region is that it's a significant role for these areas in human trafficking. Otherwise, organized crime, but especially undermining human trafficking. Here's a very specific question. Of course, what Mr. Čengić said I don't want to repeat anything, this is a very important and important law. Those who wrote it, I think it is, say it is modern, that it has been done according to other laws of the European states. I believe so, but here's a specific question. So has the question of movement, or illegal trafficking, been sufficiently regulated? Mr. Mektić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u844	The Honorable Presidency, respected delegates, ladies and gentlemen, this, it is true that this law has been around for nearly two years now, in a certain way in the parliamentary procedure and that, indeed, it was necessary to adopt it, and that before that it was a prerequisite, let me say, many of the advances that were necessary to undertake a number of institutions within BiH, to prevent certain forms of organised crime, particularly when it comes to terrorism issues, or combating terrorism, and primarily when it comes to trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration. I think this law, after all this time, has covered all this trouble and created a strong legal framework in which to enable, indeed, the fight against illicit trafficking in people. It is now a matter of institutionality in BiH and organisationally setting up such things and that, under this law, it is an obligation to bring here a certain number of sub-terminal acts, which would more closely regulate a particular issue related to this law, and with good understanding it also refers to the problem of illicit trafficking in people. For the sake of this example, immediately listening to the adoption of this law, it is necessary to adopt the correct rules on how to deal with, and the protection of trafficking victims, illicit trade, which would imply a way of finding a victim of illicit trafficking, its accommodation in security houses, the treatment of such a victim, and the creation or manner in which the victim of the trade can come from a documentable witness. This law, within the framework of rounding up legal legitimacy to, criminally legal legitimacy at BiH level, certainly allows us to stand up in one quality way to illicit trade and that what you said to the chairman, that definitely BiH is beginning to download or not to mention on lists of countries, where it does not seem enough, or, in practice, does nothing, related to illicit trafficking of people. I say, so, after the adoption of this law, which certainly solves this issue in one quality way and protects the borders of BiH and, in one quality way, regulates the control and regime of the crossing of the border, implies the adoption of a number of sublegal acts, which together with the Criminal Law of BiH, the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH, which, as a criminal act, treats this issue, then, and, assuming here and the Law on the Protection of Witnesses under threat and threatened witnesses, certainly creates a good legal framework within this fight against illicit trafficking. 17 If you please, only two sentences. It is true that by certain international organisations and governments of certain countries, I am primarily referring to the U.S. Government, BiH is classified in the category of countries in the most unfavourable category of countries or in the third group of countries, therefore, between countries where nothing or insufficient is being done in this fight. We are considering, considering this situation, related to this problem and related to the 90-day period left by BiH to change the situation, otherwise we will follow additional sanctions, discuss this issue and take some steps. It was very important to pass this law. There's an action plan from 2002, related to the fight against illicit trafficking. We amended part of the action plan, by making up, instead of a state commission, which itself was made up of representatives of a series of institutions, both from the state and entity level and was a rather inoperable and inefficient body, established a national, non-state co-ordinator at BiH level to fight illicit trade. We have also proposed a new decision on the establishment of a task force to combat human trafficking, which will be made up of representatives of a number of institutions, which, by the nature of their work, deal with this problem, will be proposed at the next session and a memorandum of understanding, which will be made up between the Council of Ministers and the Governments of the Entity and the Brcko District and will be some short-term measures, which will certainly contribute to the change of the situation in this area. Maybe it's important here just to point out that it's not, perhaps, the state of presentation. Right now, if a few years ago had been done a lot, related to this problem, but, simply, so far, there has been no BiH level, the central body, which would have had and summed up all the results, which were achieved on this plan, analysed them and proposed certain measures and actions accordingly. We hope that, by forming this ministry, these data will be monitored at the level of the state and that with one other argument, we will be able to go out in public with both domestic and international institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u845	I thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, for the, uh, here's a lot of detail on the enigma and the arguments. No one else, if there are no more reported, I suggest we plead to the text of this law. There are no new amendments. So, we've put this misunderstanding away. We've removed this little misunderstanding. Still, there are no new amendments. The amendments that were and were explained by Mr. Changić on behalf of the working body are an integral part of the text of the law. We're voting on the common law. Who's the text of the law? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the Law on the Movement, residence of foreigners and asylum and we adopted this law in the same text as was adopted in the House of Representatives and, thus, we received the Law. There's no need for any consent. I thank you, we're going to the next item of the agenda. 18 Ad.5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The law has been declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis. The House of Representatives passed the law at the 16th session, held on 17 July 2003. Amendments shall not be submitted, Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate on the procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to the proposal, or a request to consider the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I thank and realize that with 13 votes in favour of, with one abstention, a request was adopted to consider the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers, as referred to in Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the law. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Branko Zrno. Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u846	I welcome you all one more time. This date may also be pointless when it comes to the way the law is passed, or our article of our 100th Rules of Procedure, but I came out for several reasons, first of all, to say a few sentences in principle and therefore I ask you to listen to me. I was offered what happened to us the other day in Brussels, because as a parliamentary delegation we stayed for two days in the European Parliament and whenever the laws are mentioned, then the laws are treated as a whole. No one shares worse in the European Parliament, the laws he has offered, that is, which he has adopted and which are in the implementation, the real implementation, which has been passed by the High Representative of those laws which are our proposal and our normal parliamentary procedure and we are persistently and constantly resented that we are very slow to pass the laws. According to this, we are not as effective as parliament. Now I'm asking a principled question here. What do we have to do? I'm on principle. Take everything or refuse everything. I'm not in favour of a selective approach, how can it happen to us in both homes of this House? One law we accept, the other we refuse, then the next five we accept, so the next two we refuse, I don't accept. And, therefore, I came out mostly because of the proposal that all non-adopted laws, which was imposed by the High Representative in a very short, very short period of time and a very fast parliamentary procedure be before us and adopted, because this is a condition that we could act on them, that we could change them, that we could adapt them and that we could make them where logical in their application. That's all I came out for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u847	I thank Mr. Zrn. Who else wants to talk about this point? Mr. Čengić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u848	Just one sentence. By supporting Mr. zrn in his initiative, I suggest that the College consider all these laws that Mr. Zrna has spoken of and prepare a proposal for a solution for this. Is it going to be to be all in one session or in two, mostly that the College this, to agree here that it's an obligation of the College to make a proposal with this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u849	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here, for all of us to know, to get to know each other. We have reached one such conclusion, and we are going in that direction, to adopt, as soon as possible, all of these laws that the High Representative has declared on a provisional basis, with us here in consultation and agreement with the House of Representatives, so that it goes parallel to the laws that we also bring here to be valid, so that they can act on them later. So we all agree on that, too. Is there anyone else who wants to talk about this? If not, I suggest we adopt now, vote on the text of the law. Who's in? Against? Abstained? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously passed the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, under Article 100. That's what we're done with point five. Ad.6. General directions and priorities in implementing BiH's foreign policy – Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received the Commission's report. The House of Representatives took note of this document at the 15th session, held on 17 June 2003. I'm calling on a proposing representative, if he has a need to say so. There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u850	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the presidency, the honourable envoys, the other present, when it comes to the document of the General Lawyer and the priorities for the implementation of foreign policy, it is a document of the Presidency, which brought it into, based on the powers it has in the Constitution of BiH. So, taking foreign policy. The document has been submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly for a statement. Since the Parliamentary Assembly under the Constitution has powers, certain powers for, or ways of taking part in the conduct of foreign policy, either through the adoption of a budget, funded by international representatives of BiH, as well as in certain other ways, such as giving consent to international agreements and to certain others through certain other aspects. 20 As far as the document itself, or its contents, is concerned, the updated document, as has already been brought by the Presidency. It is about a document from the earlier period, from the end of 2001, a document was included in terms of certain things, which had already become realised, and they primarily refer to communication with neighbours. The document is also complemented in terms of the implementation of commitments resulting from certain global developments and certain shortcomings. Therefore, certain shortcomings as they were in the first document have been corrected. By preparing for discussion at parliamentary homes, the working bodies have shown themselves about this document and it has been established that in the future work on documents such as this is a natural, desirable inclusion of parliamentary bodies, which, for their sphere of living, have external affairs and, in any case, it will be one principle, i.e. guidance, which the Presidency will seek to respect, or respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u851	I thank Mr. Ante Grbić for his explanations. On behalf of the working bodies, Mr Čengić, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u852	So our commission has been considering this document very seriously. We had a very fruitful debate and we took the views that you got here in the written text of the report. We took the positions completely uniquely and very short. We believe that the basic views in this document are absolutely acceptable and that our commission has fully supported them, and drugi, we find it extremely important that the BiH Presidency adopts such a document, therefore, by principle, as it does, by consensus. However, we felt that the style and technical of this document was not at the level of the institution that brought it and, therefore, we suggested that, if possible, this type of improvement would be done and subsequently. Next, we concluded that it would be good, to now, to say, to advance the work or technology on the adoption of such documents, in a way that the first version, or draft, draft whatever you want the Presidency to prepare and then send it to the Committee on Foreign Policy of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, in order for them to have the opportunity to put, possibly, observations and suggestions, and then to finally adopt such text at the Presidency in order to ensure a higher level of coordination and agreement on such an important document. Next, we believe, and if this document can be seen as a document that is valid, in fact, for the entire mandate of this presidency and these institutions of government, however, we believe that the matter of foreign policy is very much alive, that some things will be realized more or less, that the new ones will appear and the idea was, the suggestion was that the Presidency, perhaps once a year, do one revision of this document and carry out certain additions or changes, similar to developing situations on the ground. It is then proposed that, in addition to this document, the work programmes of the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, or those institutions, which are involved in the adoption and implementation of foreign policy, be added as a kind of addition or clarifications to the document itself. 21 And finally, it was proposed to place it clearly in this document, therefore, in the text of the document that human trafficking is one of the issues and priorities that BiH and its institutions will deal with in the next period. So, with these suggestions and suggestions, we think that we should definitely support this document and that it would be good to make it as public as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u853	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is anyone answering for a hearing? As there are no reports I conclude, I would conclude this debate with the fact that what was the views of our commission, which was expressed by Commission President Mr Čengić, so the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. I think this is worse and here I really have no need to say anything more than to fully agree and perhaps with one conclusion as it is said to adopt, or take note of this document bearing the title – General Directions and Priorities in the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy by the Presidency. I think that, with respect, taking this into account, and this is our conclusion that, while this is the responsibility of the Presidency, we will not be in charge and we do not want to interfere, but we believe that we should be acquainted and if we can suggest something useful, suggest that it be included, and that how this remark on certain here is the construction of a sentence etc. I think we do, because often Bosnia and Herzegovina will also be mentioned on behalf of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not Bosnia will Herzegovina etc. So that's it, but it's a technical matter. Okay. As no one answers, I suggest that we take this information and that this is actually a document with this conclusion. Who's in favor of a solution like this to plead? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted our conclusion here by Mr Čengić and that we have received the document from the Presidency of the General Directions and Priorities in implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy for this period to come. I thank and move on to the next item of the agenda. Point 7 reads 22 Ad. Seven. A plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina report by the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives adopted a plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina at its 15th session, held on 27 June 2003. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr Tomislav Limov. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u854	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope that I will no longer have the need to go out today, but when it comes to this issue I still feel in a certain way and duty to say my opinion on the document that is before us and which has otherwise been made by the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina as meeting its obligation set out in the conclusion of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament since the beginning of April of this year. Anyone with significant pretenses is trying in a professional way to deal with this problem and with the minimally built character and dignity of the knowers and the problems in their sleep would not give a passing assessment of such a document. Of course, first of all, bearing in mind the fact that he put such a pretentious goal in his title – the Plan of Measures and Actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In improvement, in improvement. I really have no intention, thank you, Mr. Spasojević, I really have no intention of being too hard on this occasion for at least two reasons. The first reason is, I know that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not built a unique and effective security system and secondly I know that the Ministry of Security is still in an organisational, human and functional position not established in full capacity. These are the facts that were finally given in this plan of action. I appreciate the ministry's efforts to even come up with any document of this kind at the state level, but precisely because it has the state significance of this document I will present a critical thought with the ambition to possibly say some things that may be helpful to the ministry and the Council of Ministers in determining the final text and, in particular, to organise overall activities in implementing the plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will not, of course, elaborate more widely if this debate does not show that it is necessary. The questions I'm going to point to, but I'm going to try to be clear and taxing, I'd say count them. My remarks are as follows. 23 First, it is pointless to plan measures and actions without an ex ante assessment of the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and without detecting the cause and cause of destabilising the situation. Secondly, it is counterproductive when the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina finds that there is no single and elaborate methodology for assessing the security situation it has for the consequence, in addition to the fact that the same appears from the middle to the middle and from the entity to the subject are treated differently, and even in this document, the Ministry does not benefit from pointing out the needs and interests of finding ways and ways to develop a methodology for the development and content of the assessment of the security situation. Thirdly, it is unserious to call such a document a plan when there are no specific objectives, methods, contents, holders and deadlines for the implementation of activities, and it would be pure formalism and irresponsibility if the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopts a plan that does not say what, when and how it should be done and what is very important is what happens if it is not planned. Fourthly, it is discouraging when the Ministry of Security finds it in the material, on the second page, I quote – such a security system in many ways makes it very difficult to counter organised and planned all types of incrimination, and in particular does not produce effective results in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and corruption, illegal trafficking in human beings, as well as other serious forms of its endangerment. I'm finishing my quote. If you're already finding, Mr. Deputy Minister, that such a security system does not produce effective results, why don't you clearly and resolutely take advantage of the opportunity here and insist on building an effective system? If you need the support of the envoys of this house, I don't see any reason why you don't get it. When, as so far, your determination remains, you too are obviously at peace with the existing one. On the other hand, if you, or the minister as head of the anti-terrorist team, say that our system quotes again – does not produce effective results in the fight against terrorism, then we cannot be angry with those who place us in a group of countries that are not sufficiently fighting organised crime, in particular you mentioned trafficking in human beings. We are directly helping with the deterioration of the bad image of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that bad image is, in a good way, unwarranted. And in the end, I'm going to offer a few arguments for a different assessment in that sense. Now what to say about that more than half a year has the ministry not functioned in full capacity in organisational, human and functional terms. I'm asking you if you've adopted a regulation on the interior structure of the ministry, has the Council of Ministers given consent to it and I assume that, is it supposed to work on it? Why don't things speed up? Is it a misunderstanding, why, of course, should we have understanding? Is it a matter of not wanting or someone preventing this from being implemented faster, because of course you, your ministry, no one is allowed to obstruct. Because the legal functioning of the security system is the top priority of every normal state, so in that sense I want to say that you have full support, at least as an envoy of this home in all elements that allow you 24 to move faster and play your coordinating role as the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He's been so worrying to me, and it's the easiest thing I can say is that she didn't operate on the Information and Protection Agency today. Of course, you can also see that I am in charge, first of all with the text offered to us in this plan. Therefore, the Information and Protection Agency Act provides that since 1 January 2003, diplomatic consular representations and persons and objects of state importance should be protected this year. Based on that fact, and I said the first time I went out today, the federal MUP, with a thousand, had reduced its internal body regulation to about 600 employees, because it was one of the conditions for obtaining APTF certificates, so assuming that 1.1. this agency would start doing its legal duty. Because the Agency has not functioned in the Federal MUP, it is still in force by the old rule, because 266 employees are being led to so-called ‘Federal MUP’. The transition therefore awaits the implementation of the Agency's project in order for these people to be taken over, and thus the structure I spoke about at the beginning of today's work will be brought into the frameworks provided for both by that agreement and by the obligations arising from the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision and at the end of the Law on State Administration, because it also specified that the structure must meet the last census, which means the 1991 census. My question, therefore, is under which regulation the Agency's Law is decorated and on the basis of which federal MUP, the Republika Srpska MUP, is regulated, and I don't know if any other agencies are protecting diplomatic consular representations and officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And not to go any further, of course, that in the context of the debate on the plan of measures it is legitimate to talk about a whole series of other issues. Examples of the need for the adoption of the Law on Internal Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the possibility of building a single, functional and effective system of security with two, and whether this is at all possible with such two asymmetric police systems, 13 interior ministries, 2 civilian intelligence services, two military forces, without adequate co-ordinating, etc. All of these are therefore legitimate issues that can be mentioned in this plan and above all in terms of operational development of activities so that, through the implementation of this plan, we actually have what the objective is, and that is to improve the security situation. I end in one minute, so my position will be done, and therefore I will complete the following, a plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be restored to completion and complemented by views, remarks, proposals and suggestions presented in the debate. Within 60 days, the Council of Ministers should draw up a full assessment of the security situation with an assessment of the qualifications of agencies and other law enforcement entities, and, on the basis of such an assessment and assessment, update the above-mentioned plan of measures and actions to stabilise the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is my proposal for a possible conclusion on this agenda point. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u855	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Čengić, then Mr. Filipović, but this is what we're going to do. So five minutes, we're going to set a break from 14:30. So keep an eye on it, if you can fit the debate at that time here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u856	My debate is 30 seconds. Respecting the remarks Mr. Limov made and fully supporting his approach to methodology, he is certainly right about everything he has said. The truth itself was part of the security system, so the condition that it is is its contribution. So, keeping all this in mind, on the one hand and on the other hand, the fact that we have no plan of measures so far, this title may be pretentious, but we have a ministry that has three employees at this time, a minister, a deputy and a secretary. Only yesterday did they get an organization, an internal organisation of the ministry, so I suggest the following - that we adopt this proposed programme of measures and activities with a conclusion that is less similar or identical to or adopted by the House of Representatives, that the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers be tasked with making additions and clarifications, particularly taking into account Mr Lim's extremely clear and professional discussion, in the next nine months. I don't mind if the Council of Ministers does it in two or three months, which would be better, but at least in the next nine months, because that's the conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives. I still think it's better to have a work programme that may not be fully implemented, but have it, but not have any work programme. And, of course, we ask the Council of Ministers also to speed up now the fill of the ministry with expert personnel who will be able to carry on these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u857	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u858	Respect for the College, distinguished colleagues and all present, since you received the report, I even thought that this was how you suggested that there was no indication of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed this plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in BiH this morning, because we belong to everything that does not belong to other committees in charge, so we are 100 titles in charge of this issue as well. 26 We have debated although the Constitutional and Legal Committee has not attended any of the motions of this material and we have concluded that we have accepted the House extremely, exceptionally this time, we will no longer do so, regardless of what the applicant is concerned, we have accepted the debate without the presence of the promoter. We discussed this material and we accepted this material to send it to the House for further discussion with the proposal to discuss and accept such a plan of measures and actions, because we also saw on the Constitutional and Legal Committee all the shortcomings that Mr Limov and Mr Čengić spoke about. However, I am now personally expressing my position which could otherwise be heard on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I think this is still one sincere approach by the promoter on all the problems he faces in his work, because they are still at the stage of stalking, constituting, etc. However, from this material, as it is, we are on the Constitutional-Legal Commission that it is accepted as such after the debate with all proposals and opinions, suggestions for its completion. Update, repairs, etc., and that this sincere approach towards Parliament, to Parliament, we also see as our efforts and efforts to provide them with any assistance in human resources and material terms in order to make this service, these services within the Ministry, work in a valid manner, their work. Here it is, I felt the need to give you
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u859	I thank Mr Filipović. Who else wants to take part in the debate? Mr. Nada Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u860	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the previous presentations, and I think it's a very good finding for Mr. Ilija. He gave an honest approach to the newly formed ministry and that he should be helped with all these remarks and objections made by Mr Limov, those of his own, but we must be aware that we have one ministry that has just been formed and that a lot of here obligations and tasks should take the Council of Ministers under the obligation to personnel, materially and otherwise form a ministry under the Ministry Act. I came out here to highlight what they said in the material, and not the methodological location where that point should be found, and that is the basic function of this ministry is coordination, so at the state level. Receipt and work with neighbours, therefore with the region and coordination towards internal bodies implementing and implementing security and creating a security situation. So the co-ordinating function must also be highlighted and a new ministry should be done in the context of this, and based on legal regulations, based on the Constitution and organisations of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I was a little puzzled by the introduction of the introduction, i.e. the introduction to this material, that the structure and organisational scheme of the state's regulation is also disputed there, that it is as a distraction to the organisation of a security, the implementation of a security policy. 27 I think that this should not be a distraction, but that the organisation and structure of the new ministry should be adapted to the Constitution and to the positive legal regulations, and that it must be given the task that belongs to it, which is that security policy, i.e. at the level of the state, its coordination with international organisations dealing with this business and co-ordination not only within the entity of the Brcko District and not only the interior ministry, but also other entities that are very important and important in the implementation of security policies such as Customs, the State Border Service, the Administration of Revenue and other entities that are very important to achieve policy and improve the security situation. So I join those who say that such material is adopted and given these remarks to the Council of Ministers to do them in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u861	I thank Mr. Radović. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'd suggest we do the next one. It means that we now adopt this plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina with these conclusions. It means that as soon as possible, the Ministry of Security will fill in, in substance, the technical capacity to perform its intended roles and functions. We're not gonna talk about who it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u862	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u863	And of course, after a certain time, is it when, now are we going to define that deadline?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u864	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u865	Here we can say that it's a nine-month deadline, it comes out again with one meaning document that might be more appropriate, is that that term program than the plan, is the plan a lot of details, the program is something a little bit wider, more indicative, etc. with some major tasks, etc., this means parliament, so that we may then and then better quality and with much and details perhaps etc. Talk more specifically. Are we to this conclusion and this proposal? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. 28 I agree that we unanimously adopted the Action Plan and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina with our conclusions. Here's Mr. Čengić asking, if it was a plan, that we now have a break for jujum, because Muslims have at 1 o'clock jum, but here's Mr. Čengić asking us to move on to point 8, so let's move on then, Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u866	I'd like to thank you, but we need to work on Fridays. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have to work. So, if you allow in this point, it is in fact an enforcement of the Commission's obligation to foreign and trade policy provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the People's House to make the Commission public every three months with a report on its work. In this report that you've all been given here, we've been very brief about what we've done in this period. So we went with a proposal to ratify certain agreements and agreements with a review of the Council of Ministers and ministries' reports, then to international Commission activities, these are the working hours we had. We have had other activities, especially those large when it comes to presentations reached in post-accession commitments to the Council of Europe in commitments to trade, joining the World Trade Organisation and finally working on a strategy for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the end of this document we also provided accurate information on the number of sessions, the date on which the sessions were held, attended at sessions and other topics discussed. In short, this report contains summed up what less you have in front of you, because we're here a little bit to say boring, each time taking a significant part of the agenda. In short, I can only say one thing, since this is the first quarter of our work, I am pleased, extremely satisfied with what we are doing within the Commission. There was absolutely no difference on any single point. On the other hand, there has never been anything late in the House for the work of this committee. I am convinced that this will continue in the future and that we will quickly bury you with a new report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u867	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here he is, and he took the opportunity to boast a little, and I also commend the work of this committee, and I think we can accept this report. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted this report on the work and here we are meeting in the follow-up session at 2.30 p.m. I suggest we proceed with our session. [[PAUZA]] 29 In the first part we finished with the 8th point, we reached the 9th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Nine. Proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC, the International Development Fund Proposer of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u868	It's 8.9 now, because we put Čengić in from 12 to 8.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u869	Excuse me, excuse me. This is what my secretary helped me make a mistake. Let's just have a little bit. So the 8th point is I apologize to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u870	Please interpret the secretary here is relevant.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u871	No, no, you're right. You're right. No, no, this is fine. So this point is on the agenda, and then behind that comes, this is only going to be the 11th point, because we adopted it so in the agenda and that's how we're going to look at the points. Report from the committee responsible you received, the House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at its 16th session held on 17 July. yesterday. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering their word? The President of the Commission in charge of the Working Body is absent, but we have received a report from the Commission. Okay. Since there is no debate, I propose that we plead and give, or accept a decision on the ratification of this agreement. Who's in? Against? Abstained? There isn't. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously reached a decision to ratify an agreement on improving and protecting investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC, Fodna for international development. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. 30 Ad. Ten. Giving consent to the cancellation of bilateral agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic, the peddler of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, (a) the Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic, from 20 January 2000, (b) the Treaty on Trade between the Kingdom of Serbs of Croatia and the Slovenians and the Republic of Czechoslovakia, from 14 November 1928 and c) the Agreement on cooperation to combat violations of customs and foreign regulations from 12 November 1976. The House of Representatives agreed to cancel these bilateral agreements at the 15th session held on 27 June 2003. Under a) Trade agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Czech Republic since 20 January 2000, we have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening the debate. There are no reports. I call for a plea. Who's in favor? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I agree that we unanimously agreed to cancel the said trade agreement. We move to point (b) of the Treaty on Trade between the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenians and the Republic of Czechoslovakia since 14 November 1928 You have received a report from the competent commission. I'm opening the debate. Who's calling? I call for a statement, to give consent to the cancellation of the shipping trade agreement between the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenians and the Republic of the Czech Republic. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously agreed to cancel the bilateral agreement we said. We are going to point c) of the Agreement on cooperation to combat violations of customs foreign exchange regulations from 12 November 1976 you have received a report from the competent commission. I'm opening the debate. No Niko's answering. I urge you to agree to cancel the bilateral agreement. 31 Who's in? Against? Abstained? There's no unanimous. Thank you. We're moving on to the 11th point of the agenda, which is Ad. 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, Paris on 2 September 1949 and the Protocol of 6 November 1992, the proposal of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 15th session held on 27 June 2003. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? It's nobody. I call upon you to come forward and give consent to ratify this agreement. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, Paris on 2 September 1049 and the Protocol of 6 November 1992 from the Presidency. Moving to the 12th point of the Ad agenda. 12. Proposal for a decision to ratify the Development Credit Agreement, the Small and Commercial Agriculture Development Project, credit number: 3742 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the World Bank, the International Association for Development of the IDA The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at its 16th session held in 17.7.2003. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Zoran Spasojević. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u872	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, we had this agenda item on the Commission today. However, the promoter didn't show up, and since we took a principled position to take down every point where we didn't have a pronoun, so we did today because of the urgency of this point, we still didn't take it down, and we didn't even discuss it, but we're telling the House that the House is still pleading for urgency. And otherwise, if it wasn't an emergency, we would have been suggested not to discuss this today. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u873	Thank you. Sir, here it appears on behalf of the promoter Mr. Grbić and. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u874	Excuse me, just a little bit if I can do a few sentences. We were warned about this at the session. In the meantime, we asked the processor to appear here and Deputy Minister Tošić is here and I call on him, therefore, to give an explanation on behalf of the processors, so on behalf of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u875	Thank you, sir. Deputy Minister Tošić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u876	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, I welcome you on my behalf and on behalf of the Ministry, and once again, we apologize for not knowing that we are not either on time, or somewhere in this area has strayed this call for an executive commission of yours today, so I will now try with one more apology to give a brief review and introduce you to this one, according to us for Bosnia and Herzegovina's very, very important loan that we have in some way agreed we should finally sign it. The reasons why an international contract is proposed are one of the most favourable types of loans from the World Bank's financial sources. The reason why it is proposed to conclude this in the contract, which is the ultimate goal of the project in helping Bosnia and Herzegovina come out of the order of the poorest countries in the world. You have seen here in the material that this project is a development of small commercial agriculture, means that the World Bank creditor, or its international association for the development of IDA, is the amount of the loan of $12 million and that it is given for 20 years with a grace period of 10 years. This is the first loan we've got on this, according to us a little harder terms for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far we've had loans from the IDA association to 35 years, but they've crossed that national gross income threshold of $875, so now we're in this second category as a state, which is good for us to move that lower threshold of national gross income, and yet it's a little worse because we don't have those conditions 35 years, but 20 years and 10 years grace period with service costs of 0.75% on an annual basis. It may still be important to say that this loan will be made according to their terms and conditions of the World Bank realised in the following acts. These are market integrations, support for agribusiness, support for commercial farms and project management. It is regionally designed to activate and achieve in southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina 33, covering Trebinje, Popovo Polje, Tretinjsko Polje, Berkovice and Ljubina, Republika Srpska and even Ljubuska, Dubravska Visoravan and Stolac in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This project area seems to have about 137 hyads and 600 inhabitants. Of which 65,000 in the Federation, 61 thousand in Republika Srpska. I don't know if you're interested in anything else about this. I'm here in front of me so I have these contracts. A subsidiary agreement is signed for the Federation, an agreement for the Republic of Serbia, and the main business carrier is Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this sense this is one of the very important projects that helps us to develop agriculture.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u877	Can I just ask you one question, if you can do it right now? That's where we saw the project that this loan would cost as much as it would cost.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u878	is interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u879	Please, it's on the annual level. How much will this loan cost when the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or banks, places it on the users? Please, that's fine, you're not expected to respond at this time. However, so far we have had the opportunity to place the loans we received from the international community very cheaply at 7.8% of end-users. So these loans are never, ever taken by end-users, because they don't, because they're normally expensive. These loans therefore remain in the business banks and they serve as their deposits for a number of arrangements that they deal with that are not even from the area for which they are intended. I think we should say it's a good project, that it's a good job, but that the Council of Ministers, or gentlemen of the Ministry, tell this Parliament at which price these loans will be placed to the end-user. Otherwise, if we don't know that in the way you've done it so far, there's no point in being in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u880	I think you're quite right, Mr. Vice President, and the same remark we made in the negotiations in Washington with the World Bank representatives. So far it's, and it's theirs to say the formula that part goes to commercial banks, part of a microcredit organization. We even cited the example that microcredit organizations were taking exactly this percentage of the interest you were talking about. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u881	1.4% a month.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u882	That part goes right up to nine, ten percent when it's all accounted for with all the costs commercial.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u883	1.4% a month, that's you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u884	for these reasons
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u885	Don't speak from the scene, Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u886	Yeah. For these reasons, just to tell you, we've just transferred that the entity governments are now going to have that in mind and with the signing of this part that they're now going to give part to commercial banks, and part of the microcredit organisations are going to condition what percentage it is. What we couldn't condition is that 1 million will go to these microcredit organisations by entities, that's kind of the World Bank's position, and secondly it means to entity governments, or finance ministries, to try to maximumly through the tender to limit the rate of interest for these funds given in agriculture. I agree all over 4%, 5 will mean nothing to our agricultural producers who want to make one step at the moment and how much in this market game with their products can mate the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u887	I thank Mr. Tošić. I'm opening the debate, it's actually open. Who wants to take your word for it? He doesn't want anyone. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u888	Just by the trace of what Mr Pamuk was saying and what did the Deputy Minister say, it occurred to me to suggest here that we, as Parliament, get feedback on how these funds were really placed? On what terms? Because if banks really rob this people, where we're full of mouths that we need to give them help, give them credits, give these, give them what they are, and we know what they are like in banks, 35 at the expense of these like farmers, I'm interested in how they're going to place it so that in future we can argue about similar things with courts and bring opinions to this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u889	Thank you, Mr. brkati. I'll have a very sharp and very specific one. So we're interested and we're all interested and it's our obligation to work on making the interest, or the end-user's assets as favourable as possible, and that's why I think today we should come to a conclusion here that the Council of Ministers and the Resord Ministry is calling for a tender and collecting offers from commercial banks for the placement of these funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u890	That's mandatory. It says that it's the only way I can place funds on commercial banks.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u891	Here it is, we heard it, and it means that it shouldn't be, because you see what happened in the earlier period when we talked about this topic. Then simply what Mr. Pamuk was saying earlier and we used to work in committees on this matter happened that they were really high interest rates, irregularly high, so it tried not to know either I, to justify things differently, I don't know any excuses either. When asked, however, the most important question is whether it was a tender and the answer was negative. So it wasn't a tender. I think the tender is necessarily necessary here and then it will be simple on the market that whoever is best with their offer in terms of cost price and it is important that these costs be as small as possible and that finally our farmers get the real funds that will be possible to use in agriculture, because they will not be overburdened by a great high interest, but they will be able to actually lead, according to the agriculture that we know is a low-accumulated branch, etc. the ability to recover these funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u892	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u893	Okay. Here I would still like to end up with me. Here you go, Mr. Mustafa. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u894	I welcome you. I think it is good that the Council of Ministers will follow how it will follow, but Parliament must stand firm in the positions that these funds that will come in with end-users come to agricultural producers. I have to say one thing that the funds that have been received from international loans are shared by business banking in such a way that they have, with high interest, made good profits, I would say super profits, and the authorities have kept those funds deposited abroad. It's a report by this National Bank, according to the National Bank report we adopted a few months ago, and I think it's definitely through the government and the Council of Ministers, and through all the institutions of the system, it just has to be limited and put an end to it. In fact, this people don't return, so I shouldn't return the loans that business banking made a super profit from. He should, uh, return those loans he needed, which he needed to develop and make some kind of development and make some kind of improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u895	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Anyone else want to talk about this? If not, then I suggest we define the conclusion, means that during the placement of these funds, a public tender is required and they collect offers and choose the most favourable bidder. I, I know it, means it's the most favourable bidder.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u896	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u897	Okay, this is hard to say be careful. Still, the market will show what real interest is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u898	They're free funds and they can't be used for interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u899	Yes, it is. Mostly enough means a tender public tender, where all interested people report and then will be sure I am all and transparent and correct and professional etc. So with this conclusion, I suggest that, I apologize. Yes, it is, for information's sake, here's what we're going to do, after what's been done, it's about realisation. That's right. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u902	The Honorable Presidency, MPs and others present. I am Mehmedalija Huremović, acting director in this company, which began working on 20 June 1945, and various organisations were last regulated by the Public Enterprise Act "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" in the number 296 of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the meantime, following the establishment of this system today, in the "Official Messenger" number 1/97, there is a way of publishing regulations in the state's "Official Journal of the Federation of BiH" number 1/94 for the Federation and we also have a cantonal regulation for Sarajevo in number 26/97. Under these rules, the company operates on principle, conditionally speaking, because its income is generated by the services performed through subscription and by advertising, publishing books, forms and others. For now, we issue Bosnia and Herzegovina's official messenger in three languages, each language changes in each issue. The Federation's official newspaper went to two languages up to six numbers. Since then, work has started in three languages, and then we go with the cantonal newspaper in the text that we get. As far as business itself is concerned, you've received our report. It was made in accordance with also on the basis of Article 20 under 1d of the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's official messenger number 28/00. We started from 2001 on the final bill to deliver reports and I am glad and I thank you for the first time to consider it at one of the homes. So you're the first to accept what the regulation says and to consider the report. As far as the financial report itself is concerned, we have given what is provided for in the regulations and you have a balance sheet that has an asset of 4,736,060, in the same amount of nature must be passive. Then the balance of success was given showing revenues of 2,659,500,19, operating costs of 2,305,300,30 profit of 354,299,89 and profit tax at 30% of 106,259,97 (this last figure is unclear - because the director said - 106,000 259 over 97)? When it comes to business performance from 1995 to 31/12/12. In 2002, we made a first 36 and then 30% paid 1.248.521,71 KM. We have also given you some contributions with the report, and I think that I would like to learn only briefly with two things that the regulation that regulated the status and work of this company has been overcome, that we could not comply with our business system with the Law on Gopsodarian Society, because it is known which founder and that it would be necessary to set out for the reason that the deadline that we had to comply with has expired, but that new amendments and additions have been extended for 8 months and it expires on 28 February this year. And secondly, we started it, this process and through the Bulldozer Commission, and secondly, it's a matter of publishing regulations. Our regulations have already been harmonised to be published in three languages, which is not disputed, however, we do find that the regulation adopted by the High Representative has been published three times in the "Official Messenger of BiH", then twice, or now three times in the "Official Journal of the Federation", three times in the "Official 39 Messenger of Republika Srpska" and three times in "Glass of the Brcko District". It's 12 times, and when you adopt it here, that same law, in the same text, with the same day of entry, no matter when adopted, is republished 12 more times. So we have a series of eight times three languages, that's twenty-four. Let me just say for a moment that one series of three languages of a 64-page messenger just printing and mailing is 6 grand. If we take that eight times six, that's 48 grand. I'm saying this more for reasons of economics, because these aren't all our costs. The Brcko District also pays when they have to publish, as does Republika Srpska's messenger. And let me round up, so we've been trying to secure what's required of us in our business. We have secured rooms, we have office equipment and people who can satisfy the current situation. However, it is expected that the entry and operation of the EU programme will greatly increase the number of posts as it did in Croatia, so that they had to ask other houses to be hired to arrive even though they only work in one language. Our subscription for all three of these votes means for the note "The Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina", for "The Official Messenger of BiH", international contracts and for "The Official Journal of the Federation" is annually 240. In addition to the provided income, Croatia has a special subscription of 238.40 KM, and in Republika Srpska where one single-language messenger is published so far is a subscription of 300 annually. It is expected that, as we also proposed, the Bulldozer Commission will pass a law on public procurement or procurement that is synchronised with the EU where all tenders above a certain amount must be published in the Official Journal as is done today by Croatia and each Friday has an add-on in the paper which has 115 to 150 pages and which is charged 1,000 marks per page. This means that 50 and something like that can provide income of about 7 to 8 million a year, and that allows them to be more realistic in the subscription and in other services to their users. Thank you. If there's anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u903	I thank Mr. Huremović for further clarifications. Is there? Mr Spasojević, on behalf of the Commission's Working Body on Administrative and Financial Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u904	Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, we discussed this report both after these and today, as the Commissioner spoke, and as he spoke to us at the Commission, we decided on the Commission to accept this report and to refer it to the House of Peoples in the procedure, that it should be accepted in the House of Peoples. However, my personal, my personal observations and this personal observation of mine that I want to say that what the gentleman has spoken in three languages is 8, 9, 12, sheets etc. that it's very expensive and, and we're not such a rich country that we can just throw ourselves away, and even if it was the paper that repromoted this official messenger. So I'd suggest 40 of them, I don't know if it's our home, our home, or some people who decide. If he has to go in three languages and it's so expensive, why can't he share for a year? She's 12 months old, split up for four months. 4 months will mean we will read Croatian, 4 months Bosniak, and 4 months Serbian, and that will do us good to learn all three languages and we will be much more efficient and we will be much more rational and we will be the way we should be. That's one thing. And secondly, what the gentleman suggested was that all tenders be published in the Public List, or "The Official List, the Messenger" as I call it. It is something that Croatia has really done extremely well and should be supported in this, and we should also support it with what we have as founder, I have realized so that we are still the Parliamentary Assembly that it is the founder of this and that it takes care of both the net profit and the loss. If it's about losing to see what it's about to lose, if it's about getting clean that those funds that aren't small that the gentleman mentioned were 7.8 million and we're all saying we don't have the money. So I really see that there's money, you just need to know how to pick them up and put them in the right place and put those institutions that are really needed to function this Bosnia and Herzegovina. These funds, here's Mr Pamuk telling me, these funds go back to the budget and then according to the budget items where the praises are always being made, and that means, that part of the money that floats in the air, that takes a variety of other newspapers in private. Why this money cannot be put into the budget and given to the very useful purposes that the budget proposes every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u905	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Boško Šiljegović wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u906	The Honorable Presidency of the ladies and gentlemen, I only have one question for the acting director of Mr. Mehmedali. I've seen there a qualification structure – 7 high professional equipment, 3 more professional equipment, 16 medium professional equipment and 2 x 2 NK and this KV. Can you give me an answer as to the qualification structure of the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the national qualification structure of the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Since this is "the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" I am asking for an answer to the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u907	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Huremović, are you prepared for the answer? Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u908	I think the qualification structure is currently such that he, for example, used the found state of 28 currently employed, 21 is Bošnjak, 4 Hrvat, 2 Srbin and 1 left. So 75% is about Bošnjak. That's the state we had, because regardless of what you said and it's called "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" but it's time to get the status status to be, because the federal parliament was already prepared three years ago and in the first reading it passed a law that would have attached it to conditionally speaking to myself and then we wouldn't be here today...if that law had been passed in the meantime. Now's the chance to think about it here and whether it's a state.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u909	No, I don't. I thank Mr. Huremović. Here's the answer. Is there anyone else in the mood for discussion? If he doesn't. Mr. Neimarlija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u910	Mr. Chairman, vice-president, fellow MPs and guests, I am grateful to the acting director of these official newspapers for this very suggestive day of information about this public enterprise, and I think that it will be encouraging for all of us in the way it has been for a colleague of Spasojević. On my part, I would really support his proposal to consider possible rationalisation of the costs of these printing of official messengers and to make it one of the reasons for telling us that both in other areas and in other services, possibly or institutions that are related to us, we find opportunities to rationalise them. And for the rationalisation they could really benefit from this data Mr. Huremović presented today. Of course, in which way it will be arranged, how will the printing of these official documents be regulated and given this language practice with us and the language status would not. I'm personal to the proposal, let's say, colleagues of Spasojević. Why not? But first of all, I'm pleating to make this one very powerful for us, for me so I've experienced it, a motive to engage in efforts to rationalise the business of the institutions that are related to us wherever possible, and if there was space, here's the information we've heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u911	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Here's this proposal from Mr. Spasojević. Here and it is supported by Mr. Neimarlija as thinking I think we could keep in mind when we talk a little bit about this public enterprise, that is, the regulation that will regulate this, is, 42 this part. There's nothing we can do about it today. I think this is quality in terms of thinking and certainly would be a significant rationalization. Keep in mind when it's specifically spoken. We will obviously need to have some fun with this problem, and in particular perhaps what seems to me is the most important thing about the activity of this public company, which is to be a commitment, and this should again be prescribed by some legal regulation that all public tenders are being published in this newspaper, or in this list, in order to be all in one place from all over the country. And it would certainly be simpler and more simple to control and easier for those who are interested in following it, because the question is with us, today is the regulation that says in one of the official daily texts, be careful. The question of availability is the question, etc., so that it is really not a good solution, as would be the solution for it to be in an official paper, namely the official newspaper of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But here, I suggest that we come forward here in a way that we accept this report on the financial business of the Public Business, or we take it into account and that this is all here that is, I think it was a good debate to have this in mind and in mind when we talk about all these issues. If you're up for a solution like this, I suggest we take this report into account. Who's in? Against? Abstained? - 1
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u912	Don't laugh, Mr. Brk. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] 21 Bošnjak, 4 Hrvat, 2 Srbin, this is the public enterprise of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we swear, therefore, and in the next period the increase in the volume of jobs for three workers will not allow this to be balanced and I ask the report to establish that the national structure is unfavourable for the benefit of Srbin and Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u913	I thank Mr. Boško. Too bad Mr. Neimarlija wants to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u914	I would not characterise this as a replica, but as an addition, since this issue of the status of this official list and the need which the director spoke of would not remain unsettled, that his founder was just being determined. They have, as the director said, status, and by accepting, of course, all of this remarks by counterpart Šiljegović about the national structure which, as the director said, is therefore a reminder that it is the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation and Canton and, in that sense, the issue of future status, and the issue of national structures, cannot be seen separately without question by national 43 official newspapers in Republika Srpska. So that this too may be considered or join as a complement to my side of the remarks that my colleague made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u915	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Here I understood this, in fact it was so requested that the record is being found, it would certainly be consistent with what is said, and I think it would be good to consider adopting a law on the national newspaper, or an official list that would then regulate all these issues of status, through obligations, etc. etc., but here's this for future time. Okay, can we end up with this point this way? I think we can. We're going to the 15th item of the agenda. She's wearing the title Ad. 15. Information about the activities of the construction of the car road Corridor Vc Here you go. Yeah. You can go to the pay phone right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u916	I thank Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am Izet Bajrambašić, a consultant at the Ministry of Communications and Transport. Given that the minister and deputy are not here today, I have been assigned to brief you on this last item of the agenda that says – Information on the activities of the construction of the Corridor Vc highway. I guess you're tired today all day, I'll try to be, you're not real. Okay. Great, I wanted to brief you first, then you can ask me a question. I'm familiar with a lot of things, and I have a lot of information. What is concrete when it comes to Corridor Vc, or the car road on Corridor Vc, and you know a lot of it, I will list the activities that exist there on, within that project. The first question is the bypass of Sarajevo – 14 km. The price is about 100 million marks. It is a project that has one sound name – a project for a quick start. It has been going on for 3 years now in the jurisdiction of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second project prepared by the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the continuation of construction from Josianica towards Vis. Then the expert team at the Ministry of Communications and Transport is working to determine the points of crossing, i.e. border points with the Republic of Croatia in the south and north in the context of this issue and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Federation is working to prepare 44 studies, since there are problems in the southern part of this route to explore the most optimal part of this route. They've got three paths. They will determine this study which is the most optimal. Then we have the most powerful one these days, it's a matter of Bosmal's own-initiative offer from Sarajevo. I'll only give one brief explanation for this question. First, when it comes to the self-initiative offer of a company, it is one of the ways in which concessions are awarded under the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions law. The first way is the lengthy procedure that we all know is going and the second is in Article 25 of the short procedure, meaning the direct submission of a company's own-initiative offer. The actors carrying out the execution by that member shall be the competent ministry and the concessions commission. Since we currently have the Ministration, and we don't have commissions, this member can't be realized until the end, and finally its realization is actually the conclusion of the concession agreement. That's not possible now, of course. Our ministry has found itself in a bit of a strange situation and has one challenging offer, a very challenging offer, and on the other hand there is no possibility that this commission is not yet appointed. It is a professional commission that requires extremely professional people to work on it. The ministry has decided to make one preliminary acceptance of the offer by Bosmal, allowing him to take one first step, which is to provide 300 million euros to implement what would otherwise be realised by us from their resources, which is a matter of feasibility of study, technical documentation and expropriation. So it's about the activities we have in short on the Corridor Vc. Here you go. I'm in the mood for questions, if there's any.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u917	Thank you. Here I am now opening the debate after your opening speech. Who wants to talk first? Mr. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u918	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is about one question, perhaps that should be set aside at a special point in the agenda and a special meeting at this level, because it is known in the post-war world that each state is promoting or operating on public works, that is, such matters as this now envisaged corridor. Here I am the present gentleman I understand well and I would ask him about this offer which is tempting from the company Bosmal if some other companies have had the opportunity and where and through which, what are the opportunities to show perhaps an even more favourable chance than the one given here? And it's known here under this roof that if you want to get one table or chair that 45 have to collect 2-3 offers, actually 3 offers, and for such a big job, then it's unquestionable that it has to be public, transparent and that everyone has a chance to answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u919	I thank Mr. Spajić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. brkati. Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u920	I'm thanking you. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, this is really the subject that the predecessor seems to be telling me that he deserves special attention and thematical to be perhaps the point of the agenda in Parliament. I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister, chairman of the Council of Ministers here today and that there are no ministers and that there are not all the people to whom, I hope as well as we here care that Bosnia once comes from a dead end in its development. This is after '95. After Dayton peace, it seems to me the greatest chance for Bosnia and Herzegovina to take the path of recovery and by standing on its feet to become a country that will be able to do things on its own without humanitarian help on the side. And I'm not an expert, I'm not an expert on communication, but I know, I've been informed, because this has made me very interested that according to the concession law, it seems to me that this is a 25-year-old member of the state can, without a tender, put this kind of business behind a company, once behind which most of the world's banks will certainly stand. It won't cost a bank. And I think this offer is of such nature that Bosnia and Herzegovina must not drop this chance. Why would I say that? I have one argument, I'll argue with the next one. You remember five or six years ago there was a tender for Sarajevo-Zenica, four years ago, right? I'm sorry I don't know the exact details. I know it was and this job was given to a French firm, and we know it hasn't been done a quarter of the time. There was this tender and in the tender they were more favourable than Bosmal and it turned out so. We didn't get a foot. That's what I'm talking about. Okay, but we didn't get a foot. Furthermore, Bosnia and Herzegovina for this trip that should go from the Šamc, it seems to me to Neum there is no tender documentation. And she has to work from the word of the gentleman who explained to us here, he said that Bosmal with these 300 million Euros would actually do it. Is this the cost that Bosnia and Herzegovina releases 300m euros. So that's just a win. That's pure profit. Someone might get a trip later, get a job, and then that money would have to be included in it to whoever was doing the paperwork. Furthermore, so this tender documentation is for itself valuable offers of Bosmal. I read it today, and maybe you read in the daily press that a high-ranking World Bank official is offering $150 million for a possible construction of that feasibility study about this tender documentation. What do we need now? If he already has this offer, 46 if he does, I'm a little short to tell you, it's also a suspicious visit from Mr. Račan five or six days ago. If she had come two months ago before Bosmal offered this, I would have accepted her as completely well-intentioned. And I'm afraid, I'm afraid this job is being delayed. I'm afraid of that. Which does not mean that business is on the road, there will be no tenders to get companies from both Croatia and Serbia and Montenegro and from some European country, but most certainly from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we care about our people getting a job here most of all, and we get that way. And for me there are any dilemmas too high. Bosmal's offer to me is something we really shouldn't gamble on. I'm not an expert, I said the roads, but I'm a bit of a geographer, you know, so I know Bosnia and Herzegovina a little bit, and I know about those basic routes that Bosnia would have to from now on so in 20 or 30 years if there were, except for this spine that goes down the valley of Bosnia and Herzegovina, right? It is certainly the way west-east is from Karlovac there to Bihać, and there to Foč and Gorazda and there to Pazar and Nis and Bulgaria. This is another basic direction, and certainly these two basic directions must have extraordinary connections both north and south of Tuzla and Banja Luka. And that's what Bosnia must do. That's what he has to do. Why am I saying this? All well-intentioned friends who want to help Bosnia have a chance to participate in building other routes, and I don't have any dilemmas, I'm as an individual that this time we don't make a mistake like we did four years ago and we run out of feet. Because these people are investing 300 million Euros to do it. It costs them, if they don't, it costs them. It's their expense. Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have a dinar cost, and they'll get that study and they'll get a chance to have that trip in five years. If we'd done it five years ago, it would have been that highway to the end. And any postponement of that by the people who ask to postpone it for me is suspicious whether they are well-meaning towards every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's how much I wanted to say. And one more, I just apologize for one question that is more technical to me, this is a question for you. We haven't formed this committee. Yes, the concession committee. I'm asking you that, that's a technical question for me. The Council of Ministers should find experts, if there are in Bosnia, if they are not in Bosnia to find them outside, that Parliament will confirm them and that we have that commission there in a month. That for me, it's just a matter of goodwill. I'm happy, look, I'm happy that it's at the level of the Presidency of the State, our presidency is making sure it's done. I am happy that Mr. Terzić says this, which is what the Minister of Communications Mr. Dokić says, which is what they are interested in. I want to believe that he, that this will go away and that we here from Parliament will help them get away and get the job going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u921	Mr Pamuk. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u922	I say hello again. I, dear colleagues, also think that when we discussed the need at the College and put this on the agenda, we thought that colleagues from Parliament would be fully informed about what is going on in this area, as far as we came and that we simply read about this in the press, what we hear in the newspapers, what we hear in the media, is that we are in progress and that we know more than we can read in the media. And I think it's information, that it should have been the meaning of information. To discuss whether we're going to do this, or if we're going to do this and if we need this and if we need that, I don't think it makes any sense at this point. It's too professional a thing, too strong and serious, that we need serious analysis and we need to believe at this point the Council of Ministers and the Ministry that they will do the best they can. What is certain is that there is a significant need in Bosnia and Herzegovina for this road route. A significant need for that highway and what is certain also that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have the means to do it itself and what is certain that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a strong construction operation to do it, perform construction alone. They have to come, quite clearly, from outside companies and normally that people who do this job will come up with a complete combination and find the best solutions. I wouldn't want us to have a discussion today about what we should do, because I'm sure we'll make a mistake. I'm sure we won't even give any real suggestions, but I'm the person who thinks Parliament must be at the greatest pace with this project. And that's why I'm asking if we can't wear ourselves to these discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u923	Thank you. Mr. Milojević, Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u924	Dear colleagues, I'll be very brief. I want to support this project in total, because how we're going to go to Europe if we don't make good roads. I wouldn't go in and spread this elaborate that Mr. brkati started on possible next directions to believe in our Council of Ministers, or believe in our professional people to find the right solutions to that. Of course, we'll probably need to verify that too. I think that, if I were to make a little joke about this highway, because all we heard today from the Council of Ministers' representatives, we could read it in the paper. We haven't heard anything new. I have a few questions and if it's possible to get an answer to them today. In fact, this feasibility of the study shows the economic justification of this time, or what period of exploitation will it take to pay off this journey to the investor? From what I've read about these shops, it's common for these concessions to last from 28 to 30 years. I've read one speculation, I'm guessing speculation that this is going to be 40 years. 48 But nowhere is it clear either the Council of Ministers has come out, and as far as I know, the representatives of this company, Bosmal. So these are some questions that are certainly very important to Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, I'm afraid of one situation now that Bosmal invests 300 million dollars or EUR, I don't know and makes that physibility study and it will give him answers to many questions – can there then be a certain situation that this firm is blackmailing the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it has already entered the business and practically no more competition? So that's one question. I suppose it can happen even though it really doesn't, this is all I know about this company I know is affirmative and positive, because it's a company that is proven and with this largest facility now the highest one that will be in the Balkans, this building right here in Banja Luka, Sarajevo. I wish she was in Banja Luka. As for the visit of the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Račan, I really didn't realize this, I didn't realize the way some Bosniak politicians reacted. So I don't think he's been welcomed, or given the interpretation of these visits that they're being given some kind of different connotation. I realized Mr. Račan's visit, I had opportunities, I was in a delegation of the congregation's leadership who talked to him most about this his concern. He's just, as I understand it, afraid that we're not getting into a story again, that Mr. Brka mentioned this four years ago, so let's get into it again for four years.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u925	We need to worry about it, not him.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u926	Well, he made it clear to us that one of Croatia's biggest national interests is exactly the same way, because he will connect eastern and southern Croatia. So here are some questions which, I would ask representatives of the Council of Ministers from this, if it is possible to give an answer. And I say the key question is – what kind of love will it be between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the moment of completion of the physibilities of the study and of Bosmal, who, by law, proposed this concession on its own?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u927	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Nada Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u928	Dear Presidency, allow me to fully support Mr Pamuk, I don't think this is the place, nor are we in charge of solving the issue of Corridor Vc or the way of construction. Surely none of the delegates question construction, that it is a priority and that it must be dealt with as it is dealt with. What I wanted to highlight here, and perhaps as part of the Parliamentary Assembly, we are concerned that we have not formed 49 suitable institutions that are necessary in the further development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, it concerns the Law on concessions in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the corresponding sublaws and concession committees. Because it's not just Corridor C5 we're going to need for other concessions and other universal wealth that we're going to give to exploit or use to someone who has money, because we don't have that money. And it's undeniable that we need to speed it up. I'm also not worried about, actually, if there are more candidates and more interested. That's good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I could be worried if only one came forward, then there was a question of how we'd deal with it and if we'd go well. We may only have receptive ones at first, which would say conditions, but a question in exploitation and how we can regulate concession fees and costs that our citizens and those who use that path to pay. And that's why it's good if there are more interested. As for the physibilities of the study, she will... all of her own, economic justification and need, and I think she needs to be speeded up. The sooner we have that study, the shorter we are, the shorter we are building time and the better we are, so we are not missing something that we cannot remain a blind island in Europe that is connected. And I think right now, at this moment, what is the situation with the industry and other resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina that these public works and communication are the chance that through communications and communications services we can get significant Wednesdays in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I would understand this how information and recommendation to the relevant authorities to solve everyone in their jurisdiction. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u929	I thank Mr. Radović. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u930	I say hello to all of you one more time. I'll talk without emotion, I don't need to, because when it comes to a lot of money, then here's the emotion you don't need. So here we simply talk as normal parliamentarians. I don't think anyone has the right to deny us any questions. The answer can be, we've already learned it, there's an answer and it doesn't have to, very often. But I guess we're right about the question. Second. I didn't go out as a fan. The campaign is on its way, maybe a little early, maybe some too late. Third. I don't even know which firm it is or what it's called. Fourth. When I pray to God that it rains, then I really pray that it rains in the country where I live, and it's called Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let's not be a little bit more now, one little less right, one little more love, one less love. What bothered me in all of this is the 50-silent depravation of absolutely all the information that is tied up, unfortunately we don't know that yet, with 3 to 5 billion, I don't know if it's a dollar or if it's these EUR's. It doesn't matter. It's around here somewhere. I want to know, because I know what this country means, the money won't come for nothing, if that road is going to give it back 40 years, it means that on it, whoever built it, we're going to give it 20 billion dollars. That's clear. It's business policy. ail is also the fact that we need the road and that we're going to build it, that we have to build it. But it is not clear to me that because of that road to this country, not Račan should have come, but also the President of the Hungarian government and the President of the Czech government and the President of the Polish Government, I'm sorry, first of all, because we forgot. This road is not a road, this is a European corridor and it is not a Kaldrma of Bosnianhercegovina that will connect 8 or 10 or 30 sheets, but a European road that will take this country directly to Brussels and Strasbourg. That's what this is about. And that's the essence of this road. This road that will allow people a normal life, that is, to allow the start of a normal life. That's what this road is about. Maybe someone has more information directly than Račan, so they can talk, or question the arrival of a government president, a representative of a state, which is absolutely out of my mind. That's what I'm talking about. In fact, this House only wants clean bills for me. I would be the luckiest man in the world to accidentally find in this offer a consortium of Bosnia and Herzegovina's construction operatives of both its entities and to build this road with their money and give it back that money. Clearly, people build and build everywhere, so they don't build Racan's operations for Croatia. Croatia began to build US Behtel and its second part Bechtel and Turkish firms. And they're doing a character right now, so that's what it's called, and neither do I. So that's the least important who's going to build it, but it's important that we don't be the hostages of who's going to build it. Isn't it logical my colleague's question to the president in this home of Mr. Milojević? If we're going to be hostages, it doesn't matter. Is that Behtel, or is it a constructor or something else called, as this is called, I forgot Bosmal. It is a principle by which we do not need to, but we must discuss in this House and beyond this Parliament nothing can happen. Terzić and all ministers, not only Minister Dokić, should also come here to discuss this in both this House and this House below, namely the neighbouring Parliament and the Federation of BiH Parliament and Republika Srpska. If we're going to build a corridor called the VC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u931	I thank Mr. Zrn. If no one's answering, I'd like a few. Mr. Neimarlija, then I will. Come on, I've got an advantage here. Here you go, I'll do it, I'm patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u932	I had no intention of getting out, but I fully understand the little inconsistencies of fellow Zrn, who pleaded to speak without emotion, and yet at some point he was carried by emotions, and I think we all know why. This is a major project 51 very important, very serious, I mean with significant meanings that are even unnecessary to define. I just wanted to be on my own, before the Minister of the Ministry gives us answers, I plead that today we take this as a small foreplay parliamentary for a serious debate on this issue when conditions arise. I'd like to remind you just so we don't have to run away from both emotions and bile debates. I have followed and I am partly aware that both in Croatia and in the Croatian Parliament and in relation to the Government and the Parliament and in relation to Minister Gačić and individual parliamentarians, for example, are represented, presented, followed by the construction of these roads in Croatia. There's also emotion, there's conflict, clashes, debates, etc. which is all perfectly normal. That's what's gonna happen to us. Of course Croatia is in a more favourable position and it is actually making with the credits that it has secured its roads. We, our Bosnia and Herzegovina are not at this opportunity and not to get into emotions, I think it's very, very, very understandable for all of us here that the concession of any kind is not the first and happiest solution, but, unfortunately, the best solution after the lost norms, so to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u933	Best possible
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u934	In fact, the best possible solution, so we neither need to hold him to the stars nor should we mourn him. I mean, it's the best possible solution we have available. However, I would therefore like to avoid for now and these values in fact, and that is why I came out, no matter how difficult it is for us to lose ourselves and our emotions and the need to set ourselves worthyly towards something that depends in many ways on the future and our economy and everything that directly binds to the economy, which is Malta's not all social life. I would plead for the simple reason that this assessment, I fully understand a colleague of the Zrn that's been taken, let's just say, one evaluation, and now this arrangement that's being made in terms of 40 years is going to be earned. Well, no one would get into any business without having to make a living. But why do they need so much funding for this physiology study? You know what, what efforts are needed professionally, not to say scientificly that, let's say, the flow of the vehicle is predicted and the possible profit is determined on the basis of how many years it can possibly be paid. I mean, it's still the science of people, and I'm not because we're getting involved right now in these issues. That's why we're doing this study. But, therefore, I am therefore to make this a mere announcement or reverberation, because I am that Parliament has full insight, maximum insight into the implementation of this whole project and that is why I am also told here that we are not getting information about this from the media. I welcome you to our home, of course and for my part, but everything that he told us on his own side, I can actually repeat that we all here already knew from the media. I hold 52 that this is too serious a project and I suggest not only a special point, but if not the entire thematic session when the time is both the Assembly and the joint or at least part of the thematic, thematic part of a session. However, when the conditions are obtained so that we do not spend ourselves now in values in some possible and politicizing, so I suggest that we receive this information and that this be our introduction in fact formally, because it is not content, it is not even possible objectively. We can only talk today about what we know and what our entire public knows, but to be timely introduced and informed because it is an extremely serious project. I repeat, similar projects also include very serious discussions in other countries. Nowhere does such projects occur smoothly in countries that have incomparably and stronger economies and stronger building potentials for, say, the realization of such jobs, so neither should we fear future debates and misunderstandings and possible clashes between Parliament and government. Every government wants to rule, including our Council of Ministers, it is Parliament to stop it, to teach it to rule by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u935	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Now I'm going to give myself the right to say a few words about this job. Well, this is certainly a very interesting topic and topic that I don't think leaves anyone indifferent to all residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course we are all interested and determined to develop a single state, so our state of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot imagine anything without the development of infrastructure, and here I mean specifically road structures. It is also very important that at one of the conferences when we talked about international corridors we agreed and included our corridor Corridor Vc in the international corridors. And here's the turn to talk about building a road in this corridor. First of all, I don't have many things lined up right here, and I don't think it's going the right way, and that's why I want to say this in the direction of bringing it all into those frames to make this really important business quick, cheap, and for Bosnia and Herzegovina the most rewarding. True, first of all we lack legal regulations, first of all we lack a very important law that is even a condition for us to join these Euro-Atlantic integrations, which is the Law on the supply of goods, services and assignments, i.e. the admission of works. We all know that in our reports on the revision and business of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, all of the ranks of the biggest grudges stand in that part, therefore, not applying these standards and practices. True, there are entity laws, and yet I believe these people who run the business that are responsible for the operations of these institutions are calling for these regulations. The truth exists in one of our laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, concerns foreign trade and between the meanings of the outside, not within the country, etc. So it's necessary to pass a law like this as soon as possible. 53 But I mention this for the reason why we see that what others resent is the lack of transparency and the unequal and unequal possibility and the chance of access of all interested in a job. And the best example that we're still trying or not doing enough in that direction to solve this right now is that here's how much activity I'm already reading the concessions, it's not even knowing how much they're worth, it's just going to be that Bosmal before I know how much, not a month or two have submitted an offer self-initiatively to build this corridor. It's very interesting that there's a poor number that's a number again, and I don't know where I come from, so 300 million dollars. Round. It's probably that much, or it's a lot less, or it's a lot more. I don't know anyone in this country that knows about saying anything more. I apologize to everyone. Furthermore, we are referring to the law as a valid, existing, concession law. The truth of Article 25, I've studied it, I've read it at least 20 times in these last 5-6 days just about about to talk about this subject, and I have to admit I'm not a lawyer, but I'm not sure I'm not a lawyer, but I'm not sure that this article can and can be interpreted indirectly in the way that it wants to be interpreted, which is that here, without the existence of a commission that is mandatory and according to this article, it's also the main one in this article, and there's absolutely nothing that can be done in the second point under a) when it says that a project that is the subject of the proposed concession can only be achieved if the design process, methodology or concept of engineering on which the bidder has exclusive rights. I don't know that there's someone like that in this business. In addition, point 3. - The ministry shall apply to the commission for the authorisation of the applicant's negotiations if it considers that there is a public interest in the concession. So to the Commission, she's gone again. I suggest that the Council of Ministers be quick to deal with this work that should have been done recently. In addition, point 5. - the ministry cannot conclude a concession contract on the basis of a self-initiative offer unless it has been authorised by the Commission and in that case the concession is awarded in accordance with the procedure laid down in this law. I'm just being called here to the provisions of this law and I'm going to repeat it and I don't see it working properly. I think this is a very important project. It's a big asset, and I don't think we should be in a position to have someone tomorrow, and they want to object to non-transparentity from the world, I'd say here questionably by law whether this job is done and done. I find the offer of Bosmal very interesting. I think that Bosmal, although I don't know much about him, is a serious firm that really based on the knowledge they've come from, is interested in building this car road and that's very good. However, I also believe that the obligation of the Council of Ministers, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, is also to act in accordance with the norms as they normally do in a world where we want to be part of, to discuss this completely transparently, to call an international tender and then to report everyone interested. I think that way it'll be safer to offer quality if it's Bosmalov, which is probably probably why not, etc. Otherwise, anything other than that, I think it's not good and it's not good, and I'm afraid we're not going to get what we're all expecting. And 54 of us may now think that it matters to us, I don't know for 15 days, a month, two, I don't think so. If it works the right way, then we can save maybe years in the construction of the highway, which is the ultimate goal of the finished car road, not to quickly start some job that starts working maybe in the wrong way, etc. And about who would work, who would work, etc. That's what I don't think we should talk about. Our interest is of course to include domestic and business and professions as much as possible, etc. etc. You don't need to talk about it too much. And here's what I'm really gonna figure out. I don't think these things should be over-determined, and they shouldn't be made a mistake. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a poor country, however, it would be the most logical and smartest, if at all possible, it would be at the end of my proposal and some kind of proposal, although I can of course suggest anything, but the question is what is real, and my proposal is that it would be best for Bosnia and Herzegovina to find the funds and provide for itself, I don't know what it is, 300 or 400 million euros or dollars and do this first part of the job. So do the physibilities of the study, do the technical documentation and solve the purchase of the land. After that, a fine international tender is called and bids are collected. I mean, then no one can... which is the most important thing. No Niko can blackmail us, no one can say he's already done something, because the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina did it. And then we would be, I'm sure in a much more favourable position, we'd have much more favourable final conditions for building this road, I mean in terms of all conditions, especially around the length of the concentration, etc. Who else wants to talk? There's no question. Only if there's anyone else, then Mr. Bašić will. If there's no Mr. Bašić here, there's been a lot of questions. And Bajrambašić, I'm sorry. All right, Bašić is shorter, now that's nicer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u936	Well, I think it's better.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u937	I'll, uh, here I think I need to say my own personal impression of this. I'm glad you're so informed about everything and this support is actually the biggest support for all the people who are going to be working on these or similar jobs. First thing when it comes to these decisions. I have to say I've been in business since December '96. the year exclusively by private investment in infrastructure and I am a member of the UN as an expert from Bosnia and Herzegovina with 26 representatives of other countries from Europe in an alliance that supports foreign direct investment in infrastructure. Our laws on this matter are at the highest level European, they are very elastic and flexible and give the investor the opportunity to appear in different ways and in different forms. So it depends on our ability to accept it. This concession law is probably one of the best laws in 55 Southeast Europe and the headquarters that has been passed with us, and there is a job and authorisation given to a professional commission chosen from experts from different professions of economists, financiers and lawyers who will exclusively work on these issues. So this is all we're asking today as questions these people are going to do this job. And therefore, they have parliamentary confidence that they do and do. At the beginning of my presentation today, I said that by law there are twice. One is a long procedure and the other is a short procedure. We probably wouldn't go to a brief procedure, or we'd wait for the commission and everything to solve it, but this situation that did hastened us to try to find opportunities under this short procedure under Article 25 and to speed up the formation of a commission. Nothing and no one gets a concession without a commission. It's, it's all against the law, isn't it? When it comes to this dilemma whether from its means, whether to be in charge etc. examples of Slovenia and Croatia are absolutely unacceptable to us. Building the Bosiljevo-Split-Zadar Croatia is rising to $17 billion in debt from the current 11 billion. Let's just say for one of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be annihilation. The budgets all talk about it, if Bosnia and Herzegovina were to be in debt, I worked at the Federation Road Directorate for 3.5 years and I worked on the preparation of the Zenica-Sarajevo road and I know all the details very well and why it didn't work out, etc. If we were to be in charge, the first sectors to be killed were education and health care. That's what we'd lose and what we've got, we'd lose. Then he goes after the culture, etc. And yesterday, the Federation government, it was just a confirmation of our financial power to make a 10% savings savings in public enterprises on salaries and expenses to form a special fund in the Budget for Pensions and Social Cases. So, from the first half of the year, 10% of everything goes down to form that fund. They didn't mention roads or physibilities to the study, even though they were necessary. Secondly, a study that will work for the south side of this road will finance telecoms. So it's not out of the budget again. I'm just saying this about how much we're capable of doing something out of our resources. Therefore, the definition that exists is that the funds collected by the fuel means also when the vehicle is registered and additional credit obligations go exclusively for the reconstruction and maintenance of the roads. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the first in Europe by the number of road passengers killed. First. Look out, we've been through Albania and Croatia and Slovenia and everything. We're first now. And the World Bank only gave one loan to support that black dots are being removed, etc. And both directorates, I have to say last year and these work fantasticly. For example, in the Federation, over 56 black dots are scheduled to be reconstructed this year. And that's that maintenance segment. Even making is completely separate from these directorates. You see in Croatia they have a ministry complete for public works. So their road management doesn't do these jobs at all. Construction is done by others. This was just a little bit of an introduction. As far as the question is concerned, I'll just fly over a little bit. Mr. Spajić asked – why there is no public tender. Here's the answer. So there's a possibility of a public tender and there's a possibility of this. This first move with Bosmal is giving him a chance to do the first part of the job. It is not excluded if the commission decides to go under another procedure not to go public tender again. You have cases, let's say 56 states finance and project and physibilities study and everything and put in a tender clause that the concessionaire is obliged to buy out the documentation and compensate for the costs of the state. Let's just say in this case, he might be obliged to make up for the cost of Bosmal, as we had if you remember the tender for Eronet, for the sale of Eronet's third license. It was said he owed a new license holder to buy from Eronet everything he invested. I mean, it's all about procedures. As far as the deadline is concerned, I think Mr Milojević has asked the question of the term of concession, a letter which is the government, or the Ministry of Communications, corresponds to Bosmal, is just as it is said – that the concession will be established in the contract according to the feasibility of the study and by the costs, etc. Everything. So no one accepts anything in this letter on this matter. 300 million means not only technical documentation, but also land expropriation. It means paying the landowners. I mean, we don't know if it's $100 million or 300. I mean, that's the question now, we don't know how many state woods there are, because we don't actually know the micro location of the route yet. You don't know that yet. As for Mr. Račan's arrival, he has really helped us a lot in the ministry on many things. There were several meetings before that with their ministry experts, then there was a three-way meeting of the transport ministers of Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia here in Sarajevo three weeks ago. The new meeting is now 25th in Osijek. It's just a question of Corridor Vc. So we're trying to satisfy that regional factor. What is the support of those who spoke for the commission's organisation, I think it's a necessary thing and that should be ordered to form it as soon as possible. Because I mean, the first president of the commission is a stranger, provided by law. It could be an additional problem to find him. But the commission should be appointed by September 1st. I mean, behind that, every deadline is pointless. There was one more question, and I apologize. Mr. Jukić, this is what I think treating this member is totally like. See, I said it at the beginning. So two actors are members of the 25th ministry and commission. One can't work without the other. The Ministry all it does now is in principle, it's plentiful, it's nothing consistent with saying based on it etc.itd. So without a commission, there's nothing we can do about it. Here's the short one. I don't know if I skipped anything, if I did, because I really have that information on this whole thing. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u938	I thank Mr. Bajrambašić, I apologize for saying the wrong name. Does anyone have any further explanations or information we've heard? Only by law and according to international rules and norms. 57 Well, I'd like here to conclude maybe one thing though, I think that came from this, although here's the deputy minister mentioning that it's important, and in fact it's legally mandatory to appoint a concession committee as soon as possible. There's a lot of real and procedure, there's been told how many members, etc. And it's not that simple. There's this simple procedure that will take at least a month, two days to appoint this commission. I've been lying to you so little about how it goes, so on and so forth. So to conclude, even though it's a commitment, I don't know if I should, although the commission should be appointed as soon as possible, because this is all something else that seems to me to be this small business that's prepared for the commission, yet the commission makes a decision on it. Is there any other need to talk about this, or we're gonna end this. Should we adopt this conclusion that the commission is appointed as soon as possible for concessions. Who's that, though?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u939	Okay, here I am volunteering for that commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u940	If there's a problem with members.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u941	Conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-18-0.u942	Against? Abstained? I find that we have unanimously come to the conclusion that the activities continue [[Common discussion]] Because you see the final decision being notified to Parliament, etc. I thank everyone, thank you for your patience and here is the contribution to our quality work today. The session ended at 4:20 p.m.
