ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10590	...guests, I am opening the 26th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests and representatives of international NGOs organizations who have expressed interest in monitoring this House's session. The chairmans and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency were also invited, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OHR representative, the OSC representative, the EU representative, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, the Representative of the Observer mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this session, the representative of UNMIK and representatives of NGOs at the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I welcome everyone, and I warmly thank those who have responded to the work of this session. According to the service report, I find that 34 MPs attend the session. Justice was announced by Mr Nijaz Duraković, Abdulah Nakaš, Hadžiahmetović Azra and Milićević Ljiljana. The others didn't announce, they didn't justify their absence. We expect their presence during the session. But, ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude that we have a quorum for full and valid decision-making within the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You ladies and gentlemen, the MPs in the invitation to the session received a proposal for the agenda. At the session of the extended College, at the meeting of the College of Representatives' House, an agreement was reached to include these items of the agenda today, i.e. to be classified under point 1 as the first point of the appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes, in order to reach an agreement with the same text of the Law on the indirect taxation system. In fact, you know that the texts of these laws have been adopted in different forms in the Predative House and the House of Peoples, and we should form a commission as the first point. I, in agreement with the chairman of the House of Peoples of Col. Pamuk, asked him today to invite members of the Commission to the House of Nations today to try to reach an agreement on the text of the Law on indirect taxation. If the Commission had successfully completed its work, by the time this session was concluded, we would have, after that, continued to conclude the work of this session with the work of the new session, where we would have completed the process of pleading on the Law on Indirect Taxation, and that seems to have done me a good job for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the last item of the agenda, it is a proposal for a decision to suspend the parliamentary term of Hasan Muratović, due to the resignation of MPs and other functions in the state parliament. So, within the framework of the debate that we have held, these are two new points of the agenda, i.e. what you have received, and we have been having a debate, of course, about the difficult economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that sense I would like to inform you, I ask for some silence, that we have received the initiative, therefore, of the SDP MEPs, that we have held talks in the College with different professional organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they point to a difficult and unbearable economic social situation, that here today we have a resolution, proposed by Mr. Momčilo Novaković. So, we have assessed within the framework of the College and one and the other that it would be best to schedule and here we agreed that on 29th of this month, we will schedule a thematic session entitled the current state of economic, current state of economic social status in BiH, with a particular reference to the protection of domestic production. So, this would be a thematic session, where we, as a basis, had a report by the Council of Ministers, which is in coordination with the governments of entities and other competent authorities, should prepare material and measures to propose measures so that Parliament could strengthen these measures and simply be in the process of what awaits us regarding the economic and social situation of our country. So, it's just your information that a special session at the request of the various Members' clubs and, at the request of the College, will be held on December 29th at 10:00 p.m. until then, we will seek the views and proposals of the Council of Ministers. I thank you and open a debate on the agenda. Who answers the word. The word is from Mr. Džaferović and Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10591	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, support this agenda that has been agreed on by the College of the Expanded College, but on the occasion of today's agenda, I would like to make a proposal. As you know, BiH Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanić has travelled to visit Israel. I have no objection to visiting or visiting Israel, however, I do have against, circumstances under which this visit was made, without the consent of the BiH presidency, although the presidency's position is required and with respect to the Israeli side's demands that 3 visits be made to Palestinian President Jaser Arafat. These are the circumstances that have led me to the situation that this visit should not have been accepted under these conditions and under these circumstances. This is a very serious issue that could undermine otherwise good relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic world. I appreciate that this issue deserves parliamentary debate, and I suggest that this House adopt today a conclusion that will ask the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for detailed information on the circumstances under which this visit occurred and when Mr Ivanic is here, because it is not okay to hold a debate without him in Parliament, to open a debate on this very important and very serious issue. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10592	I thank my colleague Džaferović, I would like to ask that since this is a debate on the agenda, to define the agenda point if he proposes a item on the agenda for conclusion. So, we'll get to the point. Next came Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10593	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I have proposed a resolution concerning the issue, which was mentioned here earlier and which reads, the Moratorium Resolution on the application of the Free Trade Agreement. I ask that according to the Rules of Procedure, today put this resolution on the agenda and I think that the College was obliged to put it on the agenda, respecting its business obligations. First of all, considering this resolution I want to highlight our political position on this issue. And just if you've read it, and I'm going to, if this is on the agenda, and I think it's got to be, uh, explained, so that's exactly what the Council of Ministers is asking what's being proposed here to go as a special conclusion. So I propose putting the Moratorium Resolution on the application of the Free Trade Agreement on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10594	Thank you, colleague Novaković. All I have to do is tell the public that the College and the chairman didn't violate the procedure. We got this resolution, so we got it yesterday, this morning, we discussed a resolution within the College, which is not a dispute that the MP can seek the agenda point. I absolutely respect that. So, no Posnik broke. Mr. Živković came forward for his word. I would ask colleague Novaković to define the agenda point and in writing to deliver. Okay. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10595	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, has been on a continuous basis for several sessions, noting that the BiH census should be implemented. I also said that I still haven't got an answer to that business question I've asked, here's a dozen sessions back. It is also not accepted in the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, that a census is included in the action plan as one of the basic ways to establish a database for both refugees and displaced persons and the entire population of BiH. I therefore propose as the 11th item of the agenda that we put the census in BiH as a part of the agenda today, that this Assembly draw conclusions on this and that it put the Council of Ministers in charge of further activities. And even in the course of this discussion by Mr. Džaferović, I think that just as it happened with the resolution, the Party of Independent Social Democrats on EU participation and taking responsibility from America, here and went to the Foreign Affairs Commission, I also believe that this initiative of the Party of Democratic Action should first pass through the Foreign Affairs Commission, and then with that material to come to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10596	I thank my colleague Živković. I'd like to ask this new item of the agenda, which you suggest in writing form, thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10597	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we end up adding the agenda point and this is an initiative, a request, a request from the Commission to examine the so-called coup case, to extend the 30-bottom deadline, due to the volume of work that the Commission has. Since yesterday in its work on the 3rd session, the Commission considered it qualitative to finish the work for the vastness of the material that we have, while respecting the practical deadline, because it is 20.12., the 30 days that you members of the House of Representatives have made available to this committee, it points out practically on Saturday. And really, if I wasn't talking about it right now, we actually need one working conclusion in the end to extend this deadline to finish the job quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10598	I thank Dr. Gligorić. I'd like to pray in writing, so we'll put it to a statement. Dr. Petar Kunić answered the question, please. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10599	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I would take another chance to ask a question for the third time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10600	But this is the agenda, Professor, and the question will be special.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10601	Well, I'm sorry, I'm really not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10602	The parliamentary questions will be a special point, so on the agenda. I'm sorry. No problem. Who further picks up the word on the agenda? Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10603	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in the debate so far, two important proposals have been highlighted in a certain way, which I would like to make, given that we have already made similar proposals in this regard. Namely, Mr. Novaković's proposal is a certain way of proposing Mr. Džaferović. I realized in front of this session that in an orderly manner, I apologize if I am wrong, that agreement has been reached, that a special session of the Parliamentary Assembly is held, dedicated to support, domestic production, consumer protection and more effective budgeting, which is seen only on the event level through the question of the Foreign Trade Treaty with Croatia. In fact, the problem in this country is that, but the agreement itself is not the only problem that now solves these issues. That is precisely why, four days ago, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we sent a letter to the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly, in front of the SDP, requesting to convene an extraordinary thematic session of the House, so it would be devoted exclusively to the issue of protecting domestic agricultural production, whose lack and led to this justified dissatisfaction of people and the blockade of border crossings with a more than evident further complicated situation. That is why, in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure, and when you look at that member, you'll see that it's also a resolution. The SDP has prepared an appropriate document containing the basic elements of the programme, not only an act of political will to break this agreement or that agreement, but a serious problem primarily urgent, and according to these system measures, which should be adopted immediately, so that the competent state institutions are working to support domestic production and protect the subsistent. 6 Just given that, we have asked the Chairman in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to ask the Council of Ministers, and I think of the Co-ordination Committee for the Economic Development of European Integration, because entity prime ministers are involved, that in front of Parliament, first of all in public, it is urgent to come up with a plan of activities to protect domestic agricultural production and consumers. Therefore, if Mr. Novaković insists on the resolution, then I would ask that the agenda point be adapted to the order of moves as it came to Parliament. I, Mr. Novaković, agree with you that the question that you have raised but much more complex we need to consider here, that is why we were looking for a non-resolution, because these people are not enough resolution. The more necessary it is for the Council of Ministers to be seen in one more whole way in such a situation than the resolution. I realized that the conclusion brought here by the College is much wider and has a chance to solve the problem. And by attacking only one segment of it, I'm afraid that you would bring us into a new spiral from which, I'm sorry to have to say it like this, but I'm really afraid you'll get involved first of all the Council of Ministers in something, unfortunately they're not here now I've just noticed, or maybe, or maybe there are, we just don't see them. Anyway, I'd like to ask Mr. Špirić if we could get clear of this before we get any more evidence of the agenda, so if we need to take a break to agree on this, that's more than I consider the 29th deadline. I'd ask to investigate the possibility of it being sooner. I understand that we have holidays now, but there's no reason Monday until Monday that the Council of Ministers doesn't do that, which is what I think 22. It obliges them to do this. The more I believe they have a plan, because the situation is such that knowing those who sat in the Council of Ministers or in different executives, they know that in a situation like this one must have a more serious plan. That's one thing. Secondly, about the initiative Mr. Džaferović presented here. I think that's the only conclusion that should be made. Namely, I must say that what you cited as a cause requires a more serious debate and as far as I'm concerned, there are still many reasons for such a debate. I think it is really more than evident that information that BiH has made a decision to station NATO bases here, that it has made a decision that Bosnian soldiers go to Iraq, and that this Parliament was not at all concerned, that then the information afterwards, in Iraq, the administration of the US made a list of more than 60 countries, which will take part in the reconstruction of Iraq. And that among those 60 countries, I am glad for them, Albania is our close neighbouring countries, Macedonia, our close countries from also closer neighbouring countries that we used to be in the same country, but let us, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in addition to the record results and lists of our companies that had large references in Iraq, that fact would be quite enough to discuss here the responsibility of both the Presidency and whether the Government or the Council of Ministers. The fact, please, BiH was one of the leading countries in the presence of its economic potential and realisation in Iraq, rather than nearly 75% of which I made an analysis of those countries, over 75% of the countries that got practically the green light to work in Iraq. 7 Look, this isn't about getting a job in Iraq for one of those 60 and the change countries, this is about getting our companies a job. And right now, we are being given information about what is going on with the UN Food Oil Programme in which our BiH-wide companies have their own programmes that took place here during Saddam's regime in the UN's dreams, and today they are being questioned. These are the demands of a million-dollar nature. And here we're being sold the story of just needing something, something, and then it'll be great. I really do, Mr. Chairman, if you're putting in such information, I am consciously not going to talk about it because Minister Ivanić is not here. If we were the right Parliament, we'd now come to the conclusion that he'd come back, to get on a plane to come back here. That we are the right Parliament and that you have here and all the feelings of what it means to be in the parliamentary majority. Asking for a pay phone conclusion about discussing him when he gets back, after all this damage is done. After what I've just cited as one of the examples happened, and knowingly I won't talk about a larger number of examples because it would lead us far away. I would therefore ask Mr. Chairman if you would like to make some conclusion on this subject not to hand over the note to you, I can hand it over to you, but we did not resolve anything, but to discuss it very seriously, and to see that the president of the Bureau comes to us here and tells us that it can happen that one member of the Bureau says Minister Ivanić went to Israel in line with the 27.11. The other member of the Bureau says he went privately, and the President of the prerdsjedništvo says nothing. And you want us to come to a conclusion now. I am against any conclusion that will be limited to this because this is embarrassing for Parliament and for what is happening in this country. I repeat again. If you want the right conclusion, the conclusion can be to get on a plane and come back if you're going, and you gentlemen from the presidency come here and tell me what this is about in this country. As long as you're rolling through the mud of other leaves and we're not on the list 60 plus from Iraq, and in relations with Islamic countries like we've brought in now, it's better not to open up the debate, because unfortunately, Mr. Džaferović, you're absolutely right never lower than these days, because it has nothing to do with Martina or Raguž as president of the foreign-political commission, and Bogami neither with Beriz nor Zlatko nor with Joz who sat in alliance with the government, so if you want a real debate, it can be a special session, can be closed, so as to look at ourselves here and see how this country, at least at the level of the elementary dignity of its institutions, can be raised on our feet.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10604	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. The replica was reported by Novaković and then by Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10605	First of all, I'm saying this isn't about any race to collect any political points. I suggested the resolution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The College, however, proposes a special session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of SDP's request. So all that's done is done in accordance with our rules of procedure and I'm also saying that the 8 proposals I made, or the text of the resolution that I gave, and I don't know if my colleagues read from the SDP or not, are not the opposite of what they're proposing, but it's just compatible with what they're proposing. And that is, that the Council of Ministers, therefore, is quite clear here, that the Council of Ministers in measures under this resolution will inform the House of Representatives at the next session. Niko one disputes the right of the College to schedule the next session on 29th and then the Council of Ministers does so, which is now required here in conclusion. So it's quite clear in the resolution. As it is quite clear, it is not a measure to break free trade agreements, because I am fully aware of the weight of these signatures that are in the agreement there. That is why it is said here that the House of Representatives is asking the Council of Ministers and the Government of Entities to bring a programme of stimulating measures as soon as possible. So, please, I have no intention of racing for this part of the agenda. I only ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this resolution be put on the agenda. Whether she's going to argue today or the House is going to decide to go into the commission phase, as we have often known to do, it's a matter of the dom. But it has to be put as a part of the agenda and then about her, if...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10606	I thank my colleague Novaković. For his word, he answered the line, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10607	Look, there's almost no need to replicate to Mr. Lagumdžija, but here's the public, because Mr. Lagumdžija is a well-known master of changing thesis and, indeed, it's become more degutant to go out for a pay phone and replicate it and master of twisting things. I've been very clear here, and I've said as far as I'm concerned, I've made my point, not only to return, but that he shouldn't have gone under these circumstances to visit Israel. But this is Parliament. I want Parliament's position and I want Parliament to be properly informed and everything I have asked and that the official, state-run, foreign policy of this country of the Presidency of the BiH country be provided with information, which we do not currently have here in Parliament on the circumstances under which this visit was made and when Mr Ivanić is present here, and Mr Lagumdžija agrees on his presence, that this serious issue should then be discussed. About who brought us or who put us in a position that we can have bad relations with the Islamic world, Mr. Lagumdžija, I think you know very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10608	I thank my colleague Džaferović. The word came from Seada Palavrić, then Mr. Raguž. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10609	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I swore to myself that I would not replicate to Mr. Lagumdji as much as I can resist it, because that's the only way we're just giving him a chance to replicate again and we're wasting valuable time. I'll tell you about the resolution proposed by Mr. Novaković. I think that it must be on the agenda today, if we decide that it is going into the commission phase, and the reasons for the real nature that should make it on the agenda today, are that we really don't have time to lose and that what we want the Council of Ministers to do is better to ask it than 29. So, I think this resolution, with certain corrections, which I believe Mr. Novaković will accept, can go today with it to get the result of this resolution for the December 29th session. And, too, I want to correct one false allegation. The session for which we have decided to hold on 29th, therefore, the thematic session, is not only at the request of the SDP, but all members of the Extended College have agreed and made our contribution to having such a session and to having the topic as a current economic and political situation, i.e. the situation in the country of BiH, and we are prepared to hold that session. We believe that ten days of time can be enough for the Council of Ministers to see what it is possible to do, and I believe and know that they have both done to the Council of Ministers and the entity government to address this problem, which, where it comes from, we will not be discussing today, we may be discussing 29 today, and that we will certainly adopt this resolution today, because such a resolution may also be a guideline in which the Council of Ministers will move, as our member of Rules of Procedure 121 says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10610	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president, answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10611	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I very rarely report to the agenda. However, I think that, indeed, after having been discussed on one college and at an extended college, so the debate that has been opened recently over the already established and agreed agenda and the use of this agenda item for the whole one, I would say the initiative, the opening of a series of political and sometimes political issues, then man, because of his dignity, has a need to say a few things. So I think it was very responsible of the College to look at the situation and the initiatives and to suggest holding a special session, where with quality parameters, analysis and assessment of possible consequences, all of these things would have considered this home and given two possibilities for 23 or 29 this month. So, a quick response is a quick reaction, and I think we have had the possibility that, through one such debate, all of us can contribute to 10 elements and elements of what it means to apply in the full force of these contracts, i.e. a possible suspension, i.e. the consequences for BiH, for countries in the region, for our accession to the European Union, we know what it means to sign a free trade contract in this area, which is, that is, one of the fundamental preconditions for qualified as a partner country in all these processes. So for that we have a proposal and I think it was correct, in this way to approach through this special session, through that special session to give its contribution to either resolutions or approaches or conclusions. Accessing this ad-hoc, no previous analyses, no consequences, I really don't think it's good for this home, and that's my personal opinion and I'm staying, therefore, with the College's position. And if we want to open up political issues this way through the establishment of the agenda, then I would say that I too am concerned about the situation, as some others have already spoken domestic production, but not only domestic production, but I am, indeed, deeply concerned about the position and fate of BiH. In the circumstances of such a non-transparent protectorate, i.e. a semi-protection, which is designed, in a way that BiH institutions cannot function here, so that they can meet the needs of BiH citizens, I think it would be a priority to achieve a consensus here, or to come out with an initiative to achieve a thorough redefinition of the existing constitutional justice system in BiH and create a self-sustaining model, which would respond to all the needs of love in BiH. It would be a serious opening of a political debate, and within that, we can talk about how foreign policy is going to be conducted in this country, not being able to go out for a pay phone and run for the issue and say that the visit is bad. What are the arguments to say that this visit is bad? Who gave the analysis? I'm not saying it's good or bad, but I'm not into politically firing people behind this pay phone ad-hoc, no arguments, no grades and no analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10612	I thank Mr. Raguž. Who's still answering for the word? Dr Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10613	Mr. Chairman, I thank you for giving me the opportunity, conditionally speaking, to replicate not on four discussions, but on four people who have now spoken, which I, extremely respect, as MPs and MPs have found here to say a lot of things, about something that I thought was a very constructive approach to solving two important issues, which can be made here by politically flammable matter, and I really don't want to, but I'm trying to make a solution. I've heard here that it's degutant to replicate. I've heard that some of them have sworn here that they won't replicate to me, and it's simply touching their desire to do so, along with so many 11 degutants and even swearing to themselves, but it's a matter of those who swear so they deny it to those who find it degutant and yet do it. Mladen Ivanić is your foreign minister, Mr Džaferović, Mr Raguž, Mr Novaković and Mrs Sead. That's your foreign minister. He is also my foreign minister, as a citizen of this country, but you chose him, and you cannot resist each other's foreign ministers from question to question, who are all yours together. It's a finished story and it just can't go through here. If you are dissatisfied with some minister or your council of ministers or anyone, who is the executive authority in the authority of this Parliament, you are obliged to call him off, to him, or to invite her to resign or to take over. I did not knowingly open up questions, which are known in public, to what has been the last days. What's the composition of the delegation that went there? Do they have the right of people who didn't go away if the minister ordered them to? And did the minister have the right to leave if the presidency told him otherwise? Could a member of the Bureau have confused the public with his statement, which is the opposite decision of the Bureau, etc.? Formal reasons you have as much as you want, but the fact that this is all expensive, I'm sorry this is tied up, exclusively for a visit to Israel. I personally consider and repeat one more time behind this pay phone. The reason for not having a BiH firm on the list of over 60 companies to participate in the reconstruction of Iraq is, in itself, enough for us to have an extraordinary session, not a part of the agenda. But I can't influence that. As far as Mr. Novaković is concerned, as you were saying, I want to be very clear. The objective of both my and the SDP is not that Parliament is discussing this today. Your resolution, which you have offered, has only opened up the possibility of a part of the problem being solved, if it can be done at all. That's what this is about. Let me remind you. Your resolution is called Moratorius. I want to remind you that the contract does not specify the word moratorium, and the international treaty obliges us, and that when we do not respect it that there is an internationally prescribed way of not respecting it and an integral part of the contract, given the circumstances, I have prepared myself, I have prepared my homework for this. This contract is very large and very precise about what can be done. Mr. Raguž, I fully agree with his approach is perhaps the most measured in the lack of Minister Hadžiahmetović to tell us something, because Mr. Martin Raguž, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, signed this agreement three years ago, specifically about this agreement. The free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia was signed by Martin Raguž as chairman of the Council of Ministers before the alliance. And he knows very well what he's talking about. I'd like to ask you to do this, Mr. Novaković, to try to focus on the solution you've listed here. Among other things, the agreement allows us Article 12 to solve agricultural policy. It allows us special safeguards and clearly specified in Article 13. It allows us through the phyto-sanitary protection to do a lot of things, through Article 14. The removal of technical barriers is clearly defined by Article 15, which is one of the major problems. Internal taxation is defined by Article 17. How can this be done? State aid is defined by Article 23, both on the one hand and on the other. It exists, etc. 12 to the difficulty of payment traffic, which we apparently have, which are defined by Article 32, and the procedure has been defined that in the case of difficulties arising from payment traffic, things can be resolved, which are why people, rightly, are now being dejected and blocked by the border to begin with. So I would ask you, if you want to solve the problem, naturally, we will take part in the debate on your resolution, but if you want to solve the problem, if you do, and I think we need to discuss it today, we can put the agenda point, that the Council of Ministers gives us information about this and that they tell us what they're planning, so that after that, if we need to have both a resolution and some other things. That's why I would suggest to Mr. Novaković, so we give up the initiative and the authority of the initiative in advance. SDP didn't come up with this. We just put this first in the procedure. However, the country's situation is long known for what it will come on. I, therefore, urge you to try to solve this problem and, if you really want us to solve the problem, he, believe me, does not solve the resolution that you gave only, but can be solved. So I would suggest, if you will, for the correctness of the solution to the problem, that we put the agenda point in order to give us information, based on which one of the conclusions can be and what you have offered in the resolution, so that the 29th session is dedicated to that. Maybe that's a solution that would be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10614	Dr. Sead Avdić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10615	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I apologize for this discussion on the agenda for a long time, but only a brief comment. I advocate that we have this thematic session, with the current situation, means the current economic and social situation in BiH, with a view to protecting domestic production, to hold that session, whether or not the Council of Ministers will reach an agreement with farmers in BiH. So, in the coming days, whether there is likely to be a removal, a simple or a response from the Council of Ministers in the sense that no blockades of border crossings occur, about that, but I suggest that, regardless of we have this thematic session of the 29th, that's one. Two. I think that objectively, esteeming Mr. Novaković, this problem cannot be solved, which is a fundamental thematic problem, simply by resolution. Namely, in recent months, several MPs' clubs, Mr. Moranjkić, and the Movable Club, etc. These thematic sessions were proposed, which would look into BiH's economic and social development strategy, so we wouldn't get into this situation. So no one has the right to a political profit, conditionally speaking and harshly, simply wanting to be sent from this pay phone. So I suggest that the resolution be composed of this thematic session and that the resolution offers one of the possible answers, which is palitative, short-term, etc. but it is both not giving, or does not make a complete solution to the problem of protecting domestic production. And finally, given several initiatives at the Extended College, I propose a agenda point under the 14th review of the composition of the 13 Commission for Defence, Security and Intelligence System in BiH. The reason and reason is quite clear. A commission has been appointed. In fact, as one member of the opposition, I have a feeling that in the commission, however, objectively, estimating the experiences of other countries, this commission would be good if it had a chairman from the opposition's order, as is the rule in modern and democratic countries and, on the other hand, it would both have no dignity or legitimacy, if the opposition had bypassed the commission as a whole, which was not accidentally done at the previous session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the Palrament's House of BiH. So, I propose a review and reconstruction of the composition of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10616	Here we go, Šefik Džaferović and Momčilo Novaković. I'm asking you to bring the hearing to an end, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10617	Look, all I need to do is explain to my esteemed colleague Avdić. So, this defence and security policy committee is not a commission to control the legality of the intelligence sector, which the BiH state will have. It's two completely different bodies. So we're not chasing these things. We will here when the Intelligence and Security Service Act is passed, form a committee to control the legality of the work of the intelligence service, and there is a democratic practice to be led by that body by someone who is of the opposition. This is a completely different situation. This is a normal joint commission, which is filled in according to the principles of how it is filled.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10618	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10619	Well, I have to say, I'm surprised by the attitudes of some colleagues, because the resolution doesn't solve and has never solved a single problem. The resolution highlights the problem and presents a political position on the problem. So it's not my intention to resolve this issue by resolution, which is why I did give it to the Council of Ministers. I'm asking us to just interpret that resolution. I don't know what the problem is with the resolution now if it offers the same as the SDP proposal? It's exactly the same. Another session, at which the Council of Ministers will follow these tasks. Is the resolution a problem because I suggested it rather than the SDP? If that's the problem, here's the SDP, but let the resolution go. Please don't. I don't see any reason for this kind of discussion. That's what it's all about, nothing else. I ask you gentlemen, I have information that a few days ago the Croatian government introduced customs duties on exports of wheat to BiH. If so, will we step one, or will that agreement come in if it has already been broken a few days ago? Are we going to give this resolution to the Council of Ministers to see if it is or not, because if that agreement is already in danger or not, or if we wait for February 29th, etc. I am staying with the proposal and 14 I insist that the resolution be placed on the agenda, and whether or not the debate will be held or not, I repeat again, it is the matter of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10620	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Belkić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10621	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I only went out to ask that we start blushing, because there is simply a question of the meaning of the Expansive College's existence, and for me, questions are asked to determine the points of the agenda, because in two ways we exhaust everything through the debate on the agenda and through the delegate's tentacles. I'm really asking you to get started.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10622	Mr. Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10623	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have been patiently waiting to say something about the agenda. I think we spent more than an hour here on the agenda, and if the task is an extended college, because all the parties, all the clubs have members of the Extended College and I thought that only an exceptional situation, something extraordinary could be the reason that there is some new point of the agenda and if we had four meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in this month. There is no session, if we were to push the max to the finish line, everyone could not define a new item of the agenda, but there is a question of where this would lead us, and therefore I am closest to this debate by my colleague, Rguž, and I ask my colleagues to remain on the agenda and what Mr Belkić was saying, to stay on the agenda, which was established by the College. And, therefore, I would like to ask my colleagues, if there is a mood for these points of the agenda to be withdrawn, and to discuss today with a set agenda, especially since we in the College have had a long-term debate and it seems to me that Dr Lagumdžija is the closest to assessing whether, we have agreed to leave it to the Council of Ministers, given the difficult economic and social situation in the country, and that the accent is on the protection measures of domestic production, to coordinate work with entity governments to propose. I know it is difficult to create a programme that solves problems, but at least paliative measures, which would ease the problem that exists and therefore give the Council of Ministers a chance as a responsible State Parliament. I'm afraid if we're here, I'll take every measure that someone here defines, which is in accordance with the law, which will solve the problem. So the government has to have an economic account to propose measures. It must see what is the responsibility of the proposed measures and Parliament must strengthen these measures in a serious debate. What's in there, what's illogical. So I do not dispute that MPs can propose resolutions. I will be against every item of the agenda that comes out of the College's conclusion, but I am so that we in this 15 country are dealing with serious problems, based on serious documents and therefore I am glad that the SDP has realized that this special session of Parliament is going to be on the hands of Parliament to talk seriously, based on a platform that the Council of Ministers will prepare. We appreciated that it was short until 23rd for serious measures, which solve the problem and said it could be December 29th. So, we also had in mind the SDP proposal and Mr. Novaković's resolution and our talks. Every day we have conversations with different social groups. People are looking for the activities of state institutions, but in order for Parliament to be active, so that it can make some decisions, it must also put the Council of Ministers in motion against any problem, unless you want us to bypass the Council of Ministers in everything. So, please, so I don't argue that people are looking for agenda points. It will be democratic to make a statement. I think that's what Dr. Lagumdžija was talking about standing there. Ask for debates on individual ministers, etc. I think it's a mature time for us to have special sessions, that it's simply a concept of government in BiH to analyze whether it's going well, if it's not going well. Is there a majority that supports the work of the Council of Ministers? What does the BiH Presidency do, in line with this, or, say, if today a man were to be underhanded, and I did not, after these discussions by the majority parties, feel free to define a request for a shift or a minister or a council of ministers to see how political parties behave. Well, there's no way. I suggested once, so you saw how it all went. But, come on, please, when you're bribing something for inefficiency, for mistakes, for what's hurting the BiH state, let's go all the way. Well, we won't send a message to the public if we have a debate, and when a matter of responsibility is raised for the exercise of power, then there's not enough votes. So let's not get into a political phase. I suggest, if possible, we keep the agenda. And, what might have, in my personal sense, made sense is this proposal by Dr. Avdić. You know we formed a commission. In the talks and with representatives of other countries, so to speak, who have such a commission, it is logical that the commission reflects, if you want, the party structure of Parliament. So, who will be chairman of the commission, it is less important for me, but logically it would be for the opposition to be represented in that commission and if there were moods, to redefine, to take one place to the opposition, another place to be impeached, it would be a quality shift. If there isn't, don't let us make a political mess about it today. But I don't think we've done a good job, that we haven't done a good job unless there's someone in the opposition in the Security Commission. It is less important to me whether or not it will be chaired, but to have a panel be structured to suit Parliament's composition. If there is a mood, I am prepared to make a positive statement about Mr Avdić's proposal. As far as my colleague Gligorić's proposal to extend the time for the Commission's work, if it is given by 30 days, I do not think that this must be the point of the agenda, but that Parliament can give consent to its commission, if it takes time to inform Parliament in quality to extend the deadline, to extend the deadline because we have formed a committee to inform Parliament in quality. We don't have any of that unless we extend the deadline, and the commission can't file a report. 16 So, I am prepared to extend the time limit of 15 to 20 days for the Commission to report to this Parliament, but do not make these specific points, to open the debate on content. Now, if that could be a compromise, I'd be grateful, but I'll do, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, to make a statement about all the proposals that don't back down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10624	Mr. Novaković, at the beginning I want to tell you very clearly and precisely that we support today's agenda point, any one that will contribute to solving the problem we objectively have. If you feel that the debate on your resolution will help resolve it. We support it, so you don't have any problem with it so it wouldn't be a misunderstanding. It's all one thing to suggest any part of the agenda, if it solves the problem. In this regard, I suggest, too, Mr Novaković, that today be placed on the agenda, which is called information on support for domestic production and consumer protection and more efficient. If the Council of Ministers can't give us information about what's going on in the country right now, about the problems that we have, which your resolution is talking about, because who you're going to present to, if no one has the opportunity to give the elemental information about what I'm talking about. So I suggest that the agenda point is called and I suggest two working conclusions, from what we've been saying so far. First, that within five days at the latest, the Council of Ministers will prepare and offer Parliament a plan of activity to protect domestic agricultural production and consumers on which Parliament will plead. It's a working conclusion. Second working conclusion. On the occasion of the latest events, such as not including the BH firm in the possibility of restoring Iraq and the journey to Israel, by the foreign minister, the BiH Presidency is tasked with preparing for the next session of Parliament the information on the realisation and effects of the foreign policy of BiH and the responsibilities of individuals, which led to the disunity and disrespect agreed in this area, and here I am handing you these conclusions for...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10625	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, who's on the phone? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Is there anyone who has decided to withdraw the proposal for a new agenda item that I am obliged to ask? There's no one here. Let's make a statement. Everything will be democratic. We have a proposal from Mr. Šefik Džaferović to ask the House of Representatives for information from the BiH Presidency on the circumstances of BiH Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanić's visit to Izrael. This information would be the subject of a debate with the presence of Minister Ivanić. So, to put an end to the agenda. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10626	A working conclusion, as well as Gligorić, that you'll make a working conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10627	So this is a working conclusion. Can we make a statement about this conclusion? We can. Who's to accept this conclusion? To request information from the BiH presidency on the circumstances of BiH Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanić's visit to Izrael. This is the conclusion. Who's up for this? Please count. Who's against it? Who's restrained please be nice. So, of the 37 present for 14 – versus 10. Please be quiet. Who's going to ask for a break, ask for it. So, of the 37 present – for 14 – versus 10 - abstentioned 12. We've got most of it. We're moving on to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? No, we have to agree on the College. I suggest we finish this after the alignment. Do you agree? They're lying. Thank you. The second conclusion of the proposal for a conclusion by Mr Tihomir Gligorić. An extension of this commission, led by Mr Gligorić, is required. How long do you want to extend the deadline? 30 days. The board of inquiry, allegedly a coup d'état. It's under quotes. Who's to approve 30 days? That's our commission, if she needs 30 days, please. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. So, of the 37 present – for 29 – versus 5 – abstention 3. I konstatuj that it does not take an entity vote, that we have accepted the conclusion of fellow Gligorić to extend the Commission's work by 30 days. Mr. Momčilo Novaković's proposal to define the new agenda point as a resolution on the moratorium on the application of the free trade agreement. Who's for Eve to accept. If we're going to get a resolution in the commission phase, here's the deal. Who's to get the resolution into the commission phase? Who's in? 18 Who is it that the resolution should be the point of the agenda, so we'll see? It's a mandatory item of the agenda, only if it's classified by the College. Come on, please, call a member of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your business intervention. Don't make a mandatory point, unless the College has agreed. Isn't that right, Branka?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10628	Dear colleagues, Article 121. ... says clearly. Any MP can submit a motion for a resolution. The draft resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides to consider it previously. Please, it is placed as a item of the agenda, and then it is decided, when it comes to the agenda, whether or not it will go to the commission or lead the debate. That's quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10629	Says here. Any MP may submit a motion for a resolution, and the proposed resolution will be discussed at a meeting at home, but it is not a mandatory point, because the College did not agree. So, let's not interpret the Rules of Procedure as to whom he falls into his memory. So he can handle the resolution. And it becomes a mandatory item of the agenda, if it's in line with the College. I don't argue that a colleague takes it to seek a point and we plead, but he can't become a mandatory point, please, Sead. A colleague, Zorić, asked for business intervention. Here you go. May I have your attention, we'll get out of this. This is an interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10630	Well, the president almost said everything I thought, but I don't think the resolution can be submitted to ad-hoc and that it's an automatic agenda point. So the MPs didn't get the text resolution. It's not safe and it can't be considered to be a mandatory point, as long as we don't get at least materials. So I don't think I can write a resolution during the session and make it a mandatory point. Oh, there's no vote on the agenda. And, by the way, when I'm out of here twice, when this is over, I'm looking for a half-hour break. So before the first point.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10631	So, please, I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you nicely, it's not my goal to have the resolution be or not, but my colleague Zorić is absolutely right. So, MP, the agenda is what we agreed on bindingly. And the MP can look for a new agenda. A kolega, Novaković, may request that the resolution be such a agenda and that is why we are now pleading on these new proposals. If he gets Parliament's support, it'll be a 19-point agenda. And, in the debate, when the agenda comes to an end, the House can decide whether to send the resolution to the competent commission or to debate without the committee's position. Here's a colleague, Džaferović, asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10632	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure should therefore be interpreted in case and every opportunity as it says in the Rules of Procedure. So it's the same. Do not set the criteria from case to case, but apply the criterion for all cases and then it is the Rules of Procedure. I would only invite you to one experience that we had here in the House, which is that we had cases of the resolution being filed at the very session of the House and then the House pleading. So that resolution goes into the agenda, if the motion for a resolution requires it, and the House declares whether he, before being discussed in the House, will refer it to the competent commission. If Dom doesn't decide to go to the board of directors, then she's the subject of discussion. We did, please nice. That is what Article 121, paragraph 2, says each MP can submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session, will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides, that it is necessary to consider it previously, and that is interpretation, as regards the resolution. If the motion for a resolution remains with the resolution, that the resolution is there and if all MPs have received it, therefore, that is also the second condition, it is also necessary to be fully correct, then it is up to us to decide whether we will do so on the commission, if we do not make such a decision, then we are discussing it today. That's one side of the question. The other side of the problem is, what I think is falling away from what we discussed at the College, and that is, then the problem of the person who is suffering the resolution and there is Mr Špirić and the College right. We have decided to hold this special session at the Enlarged College 29. Such a decision has been made. That is, therefore, a second question, but, even so, the promoter insists, it is up to us to respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10633	Thank you very much. I would ask you, this is the Rules of Procedure that defines the resolution that the MP can, and the establishment of the agenda is defined by other members of the Rules of Procedure. Please, nice. I don't, I really have no reason to do the agenda unless the House makes a statement, but I have to respect the Posovnik so she doesn't automatically become a part of the agenda and I'm asking the sekretarijat to interpret the Rules of Procedure. We're not here, I really don't want to challenge anyone, the democratic procedure will be for all the new points to plead, but this is that the MP can submit a resolution, that the House can say we're discussing or returning to the commission, but setting the agenda is the same. So it becomes a binding point, if consent has been reached in the College. I agree with that. You can set up, look for a point, we'll vote on it, why don't you become a part of the agenda. 20 Please kindly, here is the Secretary of the House to give the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I have no reason to be tenentious. This is a real interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10634	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just want to point out to you, that is, to draw your attention to a few things.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10635	Please be quiet, we're deciding on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10636	Article 121. The Rules of Procedure are very decadent and I have an opinion on it. Which, unfortunately, is not identical to the opinion of a member of the College. I therefore appreciate that when the College has a need to interpret the Rules of Procedure, which it is authorized to do, then perhaps we should have some common views on how to clarify it. I read Article 121. Rules of Procedure. Any MP may submit a motion for a resolution. So the resolution was submitted, that proposal. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides it is necessary to consider the commission first. I'm interpreting it like this. That's my opinion. I have no right to interpret the Rules of Procedure. So the basic question about which the House should be shown at this point is, to conclude that the dom has decided that this resolution submitted by the MP should be considered previously by the commission. If we were to go with this other proposal, to put the resolution into the agenda of the House, which was the case so far, that we understand each other. Such cases were in the case of a resolution by MP Živković, we had such an attitude, then the question, if it is on the agenda, that debate must be held. That is why we, at last session, did not enter into the debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but on the basis of the debate on the matter, however, we have reached the conclusion that the resolution is addressed to the committee responsible, which is the Commission for Foreign Affairs. We didn't have a case like that when it was the resolution of the MPs of Zlatko Lagumdžija. Let me finish this. So, I believe that today the question on which the House is to be seen and to reach its conclusion that a resolution is needed requires a preliminary debate in the competent commission. That's definitely my opinion, and the interpretation is given by the College. Was I decadent?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10637	Okay. Just a little bit, please. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10638	Mr. Chairman and fellow MPs, I have been on the side of the College a number of times so far, and I felt that the College on several occasions when there were some questions when the disputed one was right. However, the College now does not have the right to do so, because the interpretation of Rule 121 and so far the practice which was, what Mr. Džaferović was saying, gives Mr. Novaković the right to submit a resolution, and that it can only be debated whether it will go through a commission phase or go directly. Since he decided to go directly, we have no reason not to vote on it. If there's a proposal to go through the commission phase, if it doesn't go through the commission phase, the resolution goes directly. I'm sorry that the MPs didn't all get that resolution, it's a lack of faith, and this is the right state as Mr. Chairman, and I think if you were on one last time, with such a feeling that you could go like this, and now you have to do it this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10639	Chairman Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10640	So, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, we all have the same rules of procedure. I don't have any different rules of procedure that you have. It's one thing to determine the agenda. The Rules of Procedure define the establishment of the agenda, those are Articles 49, 50 and 51. So, at the beginning of the session, every MP, as well as any authorised promoter, has the right to request the abandonment of any optional point and the proposal of a new one. He can look for optional points. The mandatory points are those agreed by the Extended College. The MP, therefore, can seek a new item of the agenda, and so I have put it to the plea, and here it is defined that it is the right of the MP to propose a resolution. So, to suggest. That right is respected. Mr. Novaković has proposed a resolution. When it is a mandatory item of the agenda, the House can decide whether to discuss the resolution directly, or whether to give it to the previous competent commission to discuss it. It's a business procedure, and I'll respect the will of home. Please nice, we'll plead today. Well, it could have been a commission, but please, there's no need to get high. Branka was absolutely right when she interpreted the Rules of Procedure, but it just doesn't seem to be worth the interpretation of me and the Secretary of the House. I can't understand. Everyone has an interpretation here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10641	Mr. Novaković, then Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10642	I want to say once again that the resolution is a special chapter here in the Rules of Procedure and therefore, the relationship to the resolution is different, rather than the relationship to the other points of the agenda, and I guess that's clear. If not, let me say it one more time. The resolution is a special chapter and refers to it as defined in that chapter, not as other points of the agenda. What can only be a dilemma and that is the Secretary of the House right, and she and the chairman of the various interpretations of the issue. According to 22, it does not interpret the same thing, but it is different whether it is coming to the agenda, and then voting on the commission, or now voting and whether it is going to the commission stage, it can only be a dilemma, but there is no dilemma about whether to put it on the agenda. If she votes to go into the commission phase, if that's an interpretation, then today she's not on the agenda, she's going to the competent commission. So far, we have had the practice of putting it on the agenda, and then it was voted after that to go into the commission phase. It's been a practice so far. I don't mind changing our practice, but I'm asking you to keep it that way in the future, no matter who put up with it. So, if we're going to change, let's change practice, but for everyone, the practice is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10643	I thank Mr. Novaković. Seada Palavrić, Dr Avdić, and Dr Živković reported the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10644	With all due respect to the chairman, I, I really need to express my concern for his behavior when this issue is on the agenda. I'll Sačekać for you to finish laughing. So, Article 121, however it regulates the right of us to propose a resolution, also regulates a special way of entering the agenda of the resolution. The secretary of this house has made it quite clear how it should be done and it is our job to make sure that we need a commission phase, if not, that resolution is on the agenda today. However, let me express one doubt, since this resolution was delivered yesterday to the House of Representatives, why it is not shared with us today. We needed another reason not to discuss it today. I'm asking the chairman, and let's not really bother ourselves for two hours at a time. Let us learn the Rules of Procedure once and apply it, which Mr. Novaković says equally to everything. If we don't know, let's take the stenograms when there were previous resolutions and see how the inclusion is in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10645	Thank you very much. I have no reason to be tenant. It'll all be democratic. Dr Avdić, and Dr. Živković. As we say, I will respect Parliament's will.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10646	Don't let us cloud our opinion on the very clear positions of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, Article 121 is very clear. The resolution will be put on the agenda of the House, placed on the agenda of the House, unless the House decides on the need for a commission phase. Clear as day. So, the Extended College decided by majority vote, is today, at half past nine this morning, that this resolution should be directed through the commission phase to the thematic session of House 29. Which means, the extended college itself, most of the votes suggest that it goes into the commission phase, 23 just so that the House has to decide on that, and before we put it on the agenda. Resolution is not a mandatory item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10647	I thank Dr. Avdić. Dr Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10648	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I regretfully can only conclude that we have been discussing formal rather than essential matters for an hour. That was also the situation when the resolution I submitted was here, when it went into the commission phase, and that day we were supposed to decide on that resolution, because we would be among those 60 countries where we're not in Iraq right now. That's why there's a question here. Is this resolution submitted by Mr. Novaković essentially needed to be considered now, because in ten days she will not have her...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10649	I thank Dr. Živković. Dr Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10650	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in a situation where, possibly, we may be interpreting the Rules of Procedure differently, according to the rules, which otherwise apply in a regulated world, unless we agree on how something is interpreted, then we must refer to the previous case, which was in force in this home, when it was similar or identical. Let me remind you. I have proposed a timely resolution on the reduction of salaries to MPs, namely the cancellation of a decision to increase wages. At that time, the same situation was procedural. Then, not to get into that which one of you suggested that it go into the commission phase. You then pleaded to go into the commission phase and you had an entity majority in that majority. And that's why the resolution I proposed for three months was driving on commissions. That's what happened. Using that analogy, we are now, but only Mr. Novaković would have one of these people of us, including me suggest that he go into the commission phase. First of all, I don't know who suggested going behind this pay phone to the commission stage. So there's got to be a suggestion. You have suggested that it go according to Article 121(2) today. I won't suggest. I won't suggest. Someone has to suggest she's going into the commission phase, so, here you go for the pay phone, and when you suggest it, Berize, then Dom pleads on it. If he receives the proposal by Beriz's anti-civil majority, which includes the entity's majority, then it goes to the commission. If she doesn't get it, she's a part of the agenda today, that was the case with my resolution, whatever I think about what Mr. Novaković is proposing, and we have to respect our usual right, unless we're sure how he's procedurally looking for it. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10651	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Here, Šefik, then Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10652	Eh, if I came here now and started talking to you about electrical engineering, and I graduated law school, that would be really weird. This isn't a replica to anyone. I suggest a five-minute break for the College to make a decision. The College interprets the Rules of Procedure and let's get out of this, so we don't embarrass ourselves anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10653	We can make a deal. It's not a problem. Here, Mr. Belkić suggested that we take five minutes off at the request of Šefikov, not a problem. I'm asking you five minutes off, we don't have to part ways to adopt the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10654	In line with what I've been saying, I suggest we make it clear that this resolution, or I suggest it goes into the commission phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10655	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Just stay put for five minutes, we'll get out of this. You don't need a break. Let's move on. We made a deal. So, in our interpretation, we vote that the resolution goes towards the commission stage. If that proposal does not pass, today will be the agenda point. Who is it that the resolution goes into the commission phase? There's a way out of everything. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please, of the 36 present 22 for – versus 9 – abstained 4. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. So 17 from Federation for, from RS 5 to. I find that this resolution is going into the commission phase and will not be discussed at today's session. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to draw your attention, let's move on with the plea. I, with indignity, reject insinuations that I use the Rules of Procedure maliciously, has a business exit for everyone. You see, therefore, I have no reason at all for any point, and I am obliged to protect the business provisions. Thank you. We're going to make a statement to Mr. Živković's demands. A census to be a part of the agenda, a census in BiH. I suggest it's like an 11-point agenda. 25 Who is it to accept this item of the agenda of Dr. Živković? It's like a part of the agenda. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So from the 36 – for 12 – versus 20 – abstention 4. I konstatuj that this has not been accepted as a part of the agenda. Let's go to the last one. The proposal is for Dr Avdić to review the composition of the Defence and Security Control Commission. So who's to take this as a part of the agenda? Who's in? To review the composition of the Armed Forces Supervisory Commission, this is the representation of all political parties. Security and Security Policy Commissions. That's his name. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So from the 37 – 22 – 13 versus – abstention 1. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? 15 from the Federation – 8 from RS this is listed as the last item of the agenda. Thank you. I ask Dr. Lagumdžija, since these were the conclusions regarding this proposal, resolution, resolution, so today will not be the subject of debate. Shall we make a statement on the conclusions? Whoever suggested Dr. Lagumdžija's conclusions about the latest events as the way in, please read it, I can't read this. Dr Lagumdžija, don't get too old, I really can't read it. I can read both letters, that's not the problem. Let the man read, let us plead. Just a little bit of seriousness. Please allow the motionary to read the conclusion that we have come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10656	The first conclusion regarding today's agenda. Conclusion, to classify the agenda, therefore, under the agenda. Information on supporting domestic consumer protection production and more efficient budget filling. It's a formality. That's a suggestion. The second conclusion. In five days at the latest, the Council of Ministers should prepare and offer Parliament a plan of activity to protect domestic agricultural production and consumers on which Parliament will plead. 26rd. On the occasion of the latest developments, such as the trip to Israel and not including Bosnian-Herzegovina firms in the possibility of rebuilding Iraq, the BiH presidency is tasked with preparing for the next session of parliament information on the realisation and effects of BiH foreign policy and the responsibilities of individuals, which have led to disunity and disrespect agreed in this area. Here's to the archives. I'll let you see.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10657	Thank you. You've heard the conclusions. We're going to a plea. Who's to accept this. One thing at a time. Who is Dr Lagumdžija's first conclusion, to prepare information on the latest events, that the Council of Ministers within five days, is uncollected in the plenary session? So, who's for the first conclusion Dr. Lagumdžija read? Would you like to make a statement? The rest of them didn't quit either. We've read them. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? This isn't the agenda. It's working conclusions. So, of 38 for 15 – versus 17 – abstention 5. So he doesn't have a majority. We're going to another conclusion. The agenda item, to be the form of support for domestic production and consumer protection. I think it's about this session... Who's that we're looking for to include the agenda point. It says. Include the agenda item Information on support for domestic production and consumer protection. We're going to another conclusion. Who's to this conclusion? Well, a little bit of seriousness. He read it to you. Who's in favor of this conclusion? To this other Dr. Lagumdžija. So you know which ones you've read. That's not true. Please come and read. To include the item on the agenda of the Information on support for domestic production? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 38 present – 13 for against 17 – 6 abstained. I find this conclusion not accepted. We are going to the third conclusion that the Bureau is asked for information concerning the implementation of foreign policy and the responsibility of individuals who have led to a failure and not respect agreed in this area, with a view to this trip by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to Israel and the restoration of Iraq. 27 Who is to this conclusion? Who's against this conclusion? Who's being held back? So, of the 38 present for 23 – versus 11 – abstention 4. We're going entityically. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? So 16 from the Federation for – 5 from RS. I find that this conclusion of Mr Lagumdžija has been accepted, a working conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that the 26th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. Appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law on the indirect denunciation system, 2. Journal of the 23rd, 24th and 25th Sessions of the House of Representatives, 3rd. MPs' questions and answers, 4. The Commission’s report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Centre Recording and Data Exchange, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of MP Nikola Špirić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the laws on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on temporary suspension of the application, based on executive decisions, on the burden of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administrative Procedure Act by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 10. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Official Messenger of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 11. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act, 28 12. The appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text: (a) Law on freedom of religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH, (b) Law on the Insurance Agency in BiH, (c) Law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law, Proposer Election Commission 13. The proposal for a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of Dr Hasan Muratović, due to the resignation, would be the agenda, with these three working conclusions, which we have, therefore, absorbed today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one application and a 14th item of the agenda, it is a review of the decision to appoint members of the Commission for Defence and Security Policy. So that's the 14th point of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one request, Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for a half-hour break after the agenda was adopted. I have a request to the HDZ, to first adopt this composition of the Committee on the First Point of the Agenda, so that the Commission and the House of Nations can work, and then we can take a break. Is that where the HDZ agrees? Thanks to the HDZ Club. So we move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text of the law on the indirect taxation system of the College has been proposed by members, that is, members of the Commission: Hazim Felić, Tihomir Gligorić, Andrić Filip. Who is it to adopt the composition of this committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10658	I immediately say that the SDS Club will support this commission, but I draw attention to the College, that in proposing to the joint commission, it has proposed members who were against the law, who voted against the law here in this house against the law. Of course, I immediately say that we will support, therefore, the College's proposal and only one warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10659	Wait a minute, who can judge someone whether they'll be in or out of sync? You, you can vote for or against, propose a new member. So there's no new proposal. We will glasati, of course, democratically to vote on everything. There's no problem. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Who is it to determine the composition of this commission in this composition? This is good when the SDS is worried about the law, don't God break in. 29 Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? When Seada and the SDS are concerned, the state will go well. When they're worried together. So, of the 38 present – 31 for – 6 co-starved, no one against. I find, therefore, that the composition of the commission has been adopted. I'm taking a half hour break and we're asking you to start at half past 12 and the commission to meet and work. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we get started. [[PAUZA]] Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Please close the door and inform the MPs, we will not wait for anyone. We have to wait for the quorum to be adopted. We're starting work. We're going to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The records from the 23rd, 24th and 25th sessions of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the records? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10660	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have two remarks, one applies in general, and that is, my suggestion and opinion that it is not good to catch up with the notes and that in one Parliament we have 2-3 and more minutes, given that time carries its own and that we cannot actively follow what happened on a certain one. Secondly, the 24th session minutes are not in an adequate state and happening in that parliament, and it is not good to quote some MPs, and some do not quote. I get the impression that different arches are being kept in records and that there are no records, at least as a contribution from a stenogram as Parliament took place and as to which discussions and order it went. I ask that the record be corrected according to the stenogram. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10661	I would pray, indeed, for the 23rd, 24th and 25th sessions, we've had four sessions this month. It's very difficult for the service, I absolutely understand, to prepare them from four stenograms of four minutes. I ask you to have the understanding to adopt these records. I'd like to see if someone has a concrete change to something that doesn't match what's been said, or if they're looking for a stenographic interpretation, but to adopt these records today, that was 30 conclusions and an extended college. It was this remark on the Expansive College. Is there anyone else to answer for? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the minutes of the 23rd, 24th and 25th sessions to be made known. Who's to adopt these records? Who's against it? Are there any government? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 23rd, 24th and 25th session of the House of Representatives. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. MPs' questions and answers Dama and gentlemen's answers to the parliamentary questions until this session received: Seada Palavrić, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mirsad Ćeman and Ruža Sopta. The federal prosecutor's office asked for an extension of issues asked at the 17th session by Muhamed Moranjkić. Mr. Moranjkić received that letter from the federal prosecutor's office. I'd like to ask if there are any comments on the answers received. I have a report from the service that Mr. Moranjkić won. Please, nice of you, therefore, this is the notice I received from the Service. I'll check it out, 'cause the mail must have mailed that memo, 'cause I guess you probably didn't get it, but we'll see what it is. Okay, thanks. You'll get it if it hasn't arrived. So, they'll come in the mail. I would pray, therefore, that today if we could pay attention to the intensive work of this session. We've got a lot of agendas. I ask my fellow Members to save time today with new questions, given that most of them do not have adequate ones, if that is, of course possible, and if so, this is a parliamentary clock for questions and answers. So, any comment on the answer he got? There isn't. Thank you. Is there a line he wants to ask a new question? Dr Kunić, Novaković, let's go in order, everyone will get a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10662	Dear and esteemed gentlemen, I've already asked the order, so I wanted to ask the question, which I'm asking for the third time, unfortunately. That's the question of realising pensions. Has a meeting of representatives of BiH and Croatia been held on the realisation of the contract, concerning health care, pension and disability insurance, and what are the results? The Joint Commission was scheduled to be held at 9. It is 12,000 requests in BiH and 6,000 per case, only at the request of a RS person. So this is about, again, the very important existential issues of the citizens. I once again ask the competent ministry to put this issue on the agenda and to conclude the convention, not only with Croatia, but with other neighbouring countries, because how much information there is from Slovenia and Serbia. So this is one of the burning questions. I don't know why there's such a lack of interest in this question. Why? For what? When, indeed, it is of the citizens' interest and also of interest to BiH. Please, it's a big asset. In other countries, if you have some millions of hours in the bank account, it's very important. Nothing matters to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10663	I thank Dr. Kunić, only asked questions in writing. Mr. Novaković, then Zorić, then Đurković, then Palavrić, then we move on, then Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10664	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to realize that I have not received an answer to any of the questions I have asked so far. I don't know if it's a question or an answer. So I didn't get an answer to any of the MPs' questions. I'm going to ask two parliamentary questions today. First question from the MPs. Who are the members of the National Monument Protection Commission? How does she make decisions based on what demands and suggestions? What facilities so far have been declared national monuments and on a request or proposal? How many more pending requests or suggestions, which and from whom are they submitted? In fact, following BiH's official messengers, I came to the conclusion that there is a huge disproportion in the decisions of this body, that, mostly, national monuments are declared objects of the Islamic religious community, in most cases, and that other objects are either missing or almost gone. Second question. When will the Director of the Legislative Office be appointed? In fact, out of eight ministerial secretary posts, five seats are filled with Bošnjak. So, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Security, Justice, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and one place is filled with representatives, representatives of the Croatian people. The legislation office is scheduled to belong to representatives of the Serb people. Neither to this day nor has the director been appointed, nor has the office been established. For one question and another, I request a written reply from the Council of Ministers, namely the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10665	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr. Vinko Zorić picked up the phone. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10666	Thank you. And, me, I also never got an answer to the parliamentary question, but I'm going to ask all one question. First question to the college of our home. And that's what it says. Is the warrant signed by Vedran Hadžović, and is headed under number 03-02-1372-1/03 of 8.12.2003, in accordance with High Representative decision No 155/03. of 22 September 2003. Namely, the funds the Representatives' Club receives from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are not party and are not personal, and besides, there is no HDZ Club in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, but the HDZ-Democracy Club and all the members of that club have been elected on the election list of the HDZ-Democracy Coalition. It is, in fact, that Vedran Hadžović signed one warrant, where funds are said to be reduced, and then said above, on the basis of a warrant that reduces party funding for HDZ at the level of the State, the Federation and the Canton, in brackets only for the Central Bosnian Canton, which implements High Representative's decision No 155/03. The secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, brings a warrant, and then it is said that for fiscal 2004 to finance the Club of Members of the HDZ, it will be reduced, etc., and then down it says, and for delegates from the HDZ at the Croatian People's Club in the House of Nature is reduced by five-fifths. Does that mean, for example? Velimir Jukić and the one from the SDP Limov will then give Velimir Jukić a guide on the club's expense, that Velimir Jukić will receive four-fifths of the club's costs and Limov all, five-fifths? Or how is that going to be shared already? I think the money we have in the budget for the club's needs, that it's for the club's needs, that it's not for the needs of the party, and I don't know why this warrant is signed, that 5%, etc. It's not some money, but if the Office of the High Representative has made a decision to reduce party financing, or in this case HDZ, it's okay. They have items in the budget financing of political parties, and it's especially the financing of clubs, because we could team up with another club or we could make say two clubs that we took more representatives, right. The second issue is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is what the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will do to respond positively to the requirements of the Bosniak Alliance of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bosniak Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has repeatedly requested the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers for Monetary Assistance both for the organisation of the European Championship held in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the World Cup in October of this year in Nice, France, where they have been achieved as a minority and knows significant results. The media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when I say us, I mean the Bosniak Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not follow us at all, and they do not find it interesting that someone from Bosnia and Herzegovina won third place in the world even though they were invited neatly to the press conference held after the World Cup. 33 Here I would like to point out that so far similar actions have been assisted, and I have one piece of evidence here with me, and it has been run under number 05-0-1121/02 since 4.11.2002, and has been issued in the Administrative Service of the Council of Ministers. So when one by me is much less or less significant and a reduction in success supported action, and it seems to me to be a chess team. I don't know why the Council of Ministers treats this alliance which was organised by the European Championship and has had its success at the World Cup, and it will win the World Cup, but if Bosnia and Herzegovina is to be treated as an institution by this term, and also by sport at all, I don't know how far it will come, so I think all this together has contributed to the presentation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in one of the, in a better light. And I have a third parliamentary question, I addressed it to the Office of the High Representative, and that is -- if it goes with the amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, can it be guaranteed that these changes will make all three nations truly equal and sovereign in Bosnia and Herzegovina? So will we have three governments with 16 ministers besides the Council of Ministers and three governments, or three times 8 plus 5 plus 3? So far, we have, apart from the Council of Ministers, two governments with 8 plus 5 plus 3 ministers and they guarantee neither equality nor sovereignty of the Croatian people, and all together is not divisible by 3. So when I say it's not divisible, then I say 16 is not divisible by 3, and you know what that applies to. It refers to two entities, although there is this material of a fellow Sopta, I read it where, for example, Čavić says Brcko is an entity, then Lagumdžija says Brcko is a state. There is one material I have accidentally read about it now, unbound for this issue and I think that the constitutional changes that were recently whether and which were imposed are not as well as in this matter or the explanation guaranteed neither the equality nor sovereignty of the Croatian people, because what is the sovereignty if we have two entities in one we have 8 Bosniak ministers, 5 Croatian, 3 Serbian, and in the other 8 Serbian, 5 Bosniak, 3 Croatian. So neither mathematically nor where we really have neither equality nor sovereignty of the Croatian people. So if it's already going into these changes, I'd very much like to read the reply of the Office of the Whistle Representative, because we know how the negotiations on constitutional changes that were two years ago were going, and I think that I would then know what to do, or how to think about it. If you don't think, then really, here I am as an advocate, I wouldn't even bother with it, if it's still going to be like this then you wouldn't, or I would suggest in the bodies of the party where I am that we don't even bother about it, because we can't achieve anything. If we really want to regulate a country according to the size of the people who live in it, then we don't have to prejudge one people over another, and to God, we're all even in all the space in all the entities in all the counties, etc., and here I'm reading, I'm saying in these materials that we have more than two entities and more than one state, etc. etc. I'm in. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10667	I thank my colleague Zorić. I would only ask that this second question addressed to the College is addressed to the Joint Service that has drawn these moves, because there is no need for me, for MPs to ask the Kolegijum questions. So they have the same rights as the members of the College to ask for the service that the parliamentary service has set. So only in that sense if possible. Thank you, fellow Zorić for his understanding. Mrs. Đurković Irina answered her word further. I would only ask MPs to ask questions and if possible. No, not that, if it's possible to narrow down the explanation, because it's written in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10668	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I must also regret that I did not get an answer to the asked question, and I certainly asked him before months and a half ago. So I'm re-enacting my question regarding the search for a report on the Vitez and Brotherhood case in the context of the ORAO case. So please let me, take that into consideration. Secondly, today, I don't know anything we're agile today with questions, I have two questions for the Council of Ministers and I ask that in writing and answers. The first question is – When will the Council of Ministers agree to Article 8, and regarding Article 6. The law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina shall implement the appointment of secretaries of ministries and other management workers appointed to the same principles as the deputy minister, director, deputy director, etc.? The second question – Does the composition of civil servants and other staff in the administration bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina reflect the national population structure according to the latest census pursuant to Article 5(4)(b) and Article 9(3)? Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution and if it doesn't reflect why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10669	I thank my colleague Đurković. Mrs. Seada Palavrić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10670	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I seem to be in luck so I regularly get answers to parliamentary questions and thank those who answer. I think you'll all remember January 2002 and the Algerian group case. Members, or families of members of the Algerian group, went to the House of Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which found by its decision that their rights were fundamental 35 human rights harshly violated. The House ordered, among other things, that between the restoration of their rights in an immaterial sense as a visit to Gontanamo and others, it ordered payment of the damages of 32,500 KM with interest. In order for the House to be met, there is no debate on this, I think the Council of Ministers decided two days ago to pay the compensation from the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of the way domestic authorities acted during this period, I submit to the D.A.'s initiative to examine whether there are elements of the crime of unwitting service work or any other criminal act of the people responsible for the formation of the Algerian group? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10671	Thank you. In writing, therefore, a question. Is it for the formation or disappearance of the Algerian group? Mrs. Ruža Sopta answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10672	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers - what did it do to the recommendations of the international crisis group from, a recommendation from 2.6.2003 to address the problem of the Brcko District? Is there a body for co-ordination, coordination of activities with the Distrikt, and what has it done, particularly in the matter of stopping human rights violations in the district?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10673	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Ivo Miro Jović answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10674	Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asking the honourable MPs, in the last few sessions of our Parliament one, one question remains unsettled, and I am constantly updating it, and for these reasons I ask that you forgive me here, and I urge those who should work in the authorities for the good and today's living, but also the future and people of this country to do something to preserve our cultural antiquities. So I asked the question whether anything here already mentioned today is a commission whose work, can be characterized by an embarrassment to the protection of himself calling – national cultural goods. That's not gonna happen. And it is necessary to reconsider the moral and any other responsibility of the people who are there, and especially that here for two months they have not found a good answer to the question of where the medieval necropolis cemetery of Mostar has become a place for disposal of garbage. Just because I thought I did a good thing, and they didn't respond, it was necessary to seek a quick answer from District Attorney Resulović why he is launching unilateral requirements for the persecution or prosecution of a nationality of the builder in Mostar. And 36 of yesterday when I'm back in the middle of that nickel gas station necropolis. Two metres from the expense, next to the main road M17. So I ask the question – will this construction legalize itself, will we be left without the past and thus the future and allow such savagery against our past? That's what I'm setting up for Prosecutor Resulović, Mostar Institute for Protection of Monuments, I won't even mention this commission because I don't hold up to it and the Ministry of Culture of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think there's room for UNESCO and OHR. I would also like to ask the second question of the Television Agency selectively, tendingly calling in their programmes on not paying the subscription where my name was mentioned. I call upon them to declare an apology to those they have abused, their names, and for two years now, by pushing messages, the fear of being prosecuted by those who don't pay television, and they don't own television. It's a particularly drastic case of a morgue in Chapljina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10675	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović. Dr. Živković picked up the phone. I'm asking people to sign up. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10676	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, and I agree with all those MPs who say that there's really no point in asking a question when no one from the ministries is there, although we need to be a little self-critical and that Rulesman who works the commission has not yet been brought here to know exactly who and how can ask the question and who should answer it. On the other hand, he would ask the Ministry of Security – namely, it is known that after 2000 and leaving the IPTF from Bosnia and Herzegovina, European police have taken over the role, but so far no one has been in charge of issuing permanent licences for police work in the State Border Service, etc. etc. Namely, competitions for entry into these organisations have been discussed in the last two years and are required to have permanent work licenses. How can people have permanent work licenses if there's no one to betray them? ? [[or make - not understood]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10677	I thank Dr. Živković. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić came to the floor. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10678	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, gentlemen of the Presidency, to return to half the previous part of this point, and that is the answer to the asked question, because I got it three minutes ago. The answer to the question I asked 7.8 so 4 and a half months ago, and it was given to me 3 to 5 minutes ago, is really lazier, irony and misery of the answer, and it is more worrying that it is a high body such as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecution. This is really embarrassing. I now have a very clear comment and information that I have personally come to with the parliamentary questions of this House literally scolding in the cabinets of those who need to think about our questions and to answer our congratulations so that we can pass on the problem to the people, because the people have chosen us and are asking for some answers from us. It's really without commenting on it and I'm not going to comment on it any further. I'm just going to physically show you one of these precise questions four and a half months have been answered. You see this down palely, one sentence is the answer that makes the lardier and the misery of such an important question raised by this country and this people. I do not think I am opening a particular question, I would move to the question – gentlemen of my fellow Members and those who follow Parliament you know that my asked questions are number 1 with the task of launching actions and activities to do something in this country so that what is happening today on our roads and borders might not happen. And that's less information and information for me under "S." My question today is moving through this, I think it's complex and, for now, unimaginable without it, the problem of running and developing the economy is the railways and the rail traffic that we once saw at a satisfactory level. Today is a different situation. I ask the Council of Ministers, and in particular the Ministry of Communications and Communications in Bosnia and Herzegovina - do they have the data in which our railways are located in Bosnia and Herzegovina today and whether in this state, in this environment and possibilities can function? What are the brakes and what's stopping them from functioning, because they feel lobbying, and so say the railroad people, that's because I talked to them who do it to put them on the sidelines and they're actually practically on the sidelines? And what does someone in this country need to do so that they function and what is planned from the Ministry to be done and invested if they lack something to perform their function? Because the economy, especially this bigger one like coke, soda, I look back at what's in Tuzla Canton without a railroad, is unimaginable to run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10679	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. 38 Ladies and gentlemen, we are exhausting the time foreseen for parliamentary matters. If there's anyone else? There's no one here. So we're going to conclude this point on the agenda. I thank everyone for asking a question. We're expecting answers. We're going to the 4th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Intelligence Act and the exchange of data under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. At the 23rd session of the House, we discussed the request of the legislator of the Law to consider the draft law under emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The request was then not received by the entity majority and the coordination procedure was carried out in the College Commission. You have received a report from the Commission on the alignment. As you have seen, no agreement has been reached on the request for an emergency procedure. Right now, in this situation, we're going to vote on the request in the second round. Who's in favor of the Council of Ministers? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So of the 30 present 22 are for, 6 v and 1 abstention. So we're going to an entity vote who's against the Federation? Against? There's no one here. Who's against Republika Srpska? So there's no one from the Federation against. From Republika Srpska 7 against. I find the law accepted, the request accepted. Let's go now, so we're voting on the law. Who's to accept the law? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 31 present, for 23, there are no 7 abstentions. We're going to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? So 22 from the Federation for. From Republika Srpska 1. He's going for a match, as well as for the first one. We'll agree and report on the alignment later. 39 Let's go to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. The request of Ambassador Nikola Špirić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for a Code for an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 105. The Rules of Procedure were sent to you on 14 November 2003. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Nobody's answering. I just want the ladies and gentlemen to take advantage of the talk to say that this is a technical amendment to the law. So it's proposed for law enforcement. I'm going to a plea. Who's to accept this proposal? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? So out of 31 present 22 are for, 7 against, the abstentions were gone. Someone didn't vote. We have the majority, we have the entity majority, but let's finish the entity vote. So who's in favor of the Federation? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? So of 14 for the Federation, 8 from Republika Srpska for. I therefore find that a request has been adopted to discuss, under article 105, MP Nikola Špirić's request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum under the urgent procedure under Article 105. So we've accepted Article 105's procedure. We're going to make a statement on the law. Who is it that accepts the bill on amending the Law on movement and residence of foreigners? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Of the 31 present 22 for, 7 v, 1 abstention. We're going to an entity. Who's in favor of the Federation? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? So of 14 from the Federation for, 8 from Republika Srpska for. I therefore find that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum under an urgent procedure, at the request of MP Nikola Špirić. I thank you for your understanding. We did a good thing. 40 Let's go to the sixth point. It's Ad. Six. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on temporary postponement of an application based on executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. The draft law requesting an emergency procedure was sent to us on December 5th, this year. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10680	Mr. Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10681	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, of course, I have read this proposal from the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry no one has to explain it today. Let's say in the article, here it is said that executive decisions include all documents made in court and administrative proceedings relating to claims based on old foreign exchange savings, war, material and immaterial damages, claims incurred during the war and direct war dangers and lagging unsettled liabilities of the users of the budget. It is then stated in Article 3 – this conclusion will apply until the law is passed which will regulate the way in which the executive decisions under Article 2 of this Act are settled, no later than 31.3.2004. I wish the Council of Ministers had come out with clear math when it proposed this law, a calculation of what it was from executive decisions now on the table. As much as it's going to burden the budget, what's that about? This is how I have to say I'm not prepared to support a bill like this or an emergency procedure. I wish the Council of Ministers would explain this request. I suppose for the sake of the difficult material and economic situation and the tight budget for this, all the Council of Ministers proposed this law at this stage. But we have to as state deputies to know what's ahead of us. Which is the height of the liabilities based on old foreign exchange savings, wartime, immaterial damage. What judgments have been passed on the burden of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget and that we really know how we can deal with it. This is how we have the law, and as MPs, we have no idea which, what amount of funds it refers to. This I think refers to a part of the funds, so I'm saying what I think, which came in this financial year. The Council of Ministers is now asking for the budget to be disbursed until the new budget is passed, so we will have the same situation in the end of 2004. 41 And therefore I cannot support either the urgent procedure, nor can I support the statement of this bill without clear economic logic and calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10682	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word has Mrs. Palavrić
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10683	Although we do not see a finance minister here today, or I do not recognize whether there are representatives of the Council of Ministers in this area, I have read the reasons under the law and I see that if we do not adopt such a law, then we are questioning the sustainability of the budget, i.e. the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to external debt. Decisions taken from the area of old foreign exchange savings, war material and not material damages, claims made during the war and direct war dangers and lagging unsettled liabilities of the users of the budget are sure of their relevance for me and I would not support their delay that what, that the Council of Ministers proposes longer delays. However, it is obvious that this is in co-operation with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank that not a single way of resolving the entire internal debt in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe that there are entirely valid reasons here for the necessity of law-making and for the procedure under Article 105. And that's why I'm pleading to back the Council of Ministers' request, which is the law he proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10684	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman, then the Potočnik, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10685	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I understand the reasons of the Council of Ministers for proposing such a law, bearing in mind, of course, the obligations recorded and the obligation finally and this Parliament to take care of liquidity. It makes sense to do what you suggest. I will support the bill's proposal for a simple reason why here should go to meet eventually those situations that await or that can be predicted and sometimes look for what is called palitative solutions. So that's the kind of solution, sometimes the longer-term one. So I will support the Bill's proposal, but I expect, although I am expressing in some way a reserve on whether we will actually succeed in the procedure by 31.3.2004, to adopt a regulation that, not temporarily, but in the right way through the budgets, etc. to regulate these issues, because 42 are still about decisions that oblige this country and need to look for ways to implement them, not just ways to make peace between them. In any case, it is expected that the law which is announced in Article 3 will also include these parameters that can only be seen from this which, as well as in the reasoning and very text of the law, stands out that, of course, this Parliament would also have in mind the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to all these paragraphs, that is, it will be a contribution if you will and the nomotechnics are here at all, because so far, the explanation has always been impossible to explicitly assess what these obligations are, have had proposals, or an explanation without explicit financial indicators. This time it will have to be done, and let this discussion of mine be actually a contribution to the fact that when we get the bill that is announced in Article 3 we get exactly the exact exact information. It's not just enough what we've had so far through a few information we've been reviewing at this home, whether it's informational in the post office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10686	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Who's next to the word? Potočnik, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10687	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, passing laws without clear parameters, means the figures that are related to this law are actually just giving cover to the Council of Ministers. I am absolutely against the fact that without the reasons and qualitative values to be laid down by the Council of Ministers and which corresponds to this House that we will ever adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10688	I thank my fellow Potočnik. Momčilo Novaković answered for his word, only has to finish the debate first to see what the boss says. Did you get Momo's guidance?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10689	Dear colleagues, we are fully aware of the shortcomings, let me say no to the law, but the arguments of this, but we are fully aware of one fact, not voting on the procedure today means not adopting this law. In fact, the time limit is the duration of the law to three months. So the moment we vote against the procedure we actually allow one debate when more of that law and eventually even adoption, when it is no longer significant. And for that reason, given that its duration is only 3 months, we will therefore solely for that reason, fully aware of all shortcomings to vote for this law. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10690	I thank my colleague Novaković. A fellow Potočnik reporting for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10691	Gentlemen, what is the meaning of a law that will last for three months? If that's so necessary, then the Ministerial Council gentlemen would have to be here, explain it, and I believe that there is a good will in this House to adopt it. So it's just extorting cover for the inexplicable issues of running this country's policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10692	I would like to thank my colleague Potočnik for his brief replica. It's clear. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. So who is it that we accept the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on temporary postponement of the application based on executive decisions on the burden of the BiH institutions' budget and on the international obligations of BiH under Article 105? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of 33 present for 21 versus 11, abstention 1. So we're going to the E.T.A. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? I ask the Republika Srpska to raise his hands yet. Who's in? Thank you. Please count. Please, nice. 17 from the Federation for, 5 from Republika Srpska for. So we have, so we have adopted a request from the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 105 procedure. We vote now on the law. Who is it to accept the proposal for a law on temporary disposal from the execution of an application based on executive decisions on the burden of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of 33 present, 22 for, 10 v, 1 abstention. 44 We're going entityically. Who's from the Federation for? From Republika Srpska who's in favour? So from Federation 17 for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. I therefore conclude that the draft law on temporary suspension has been adopted from the execution of the application based on executive decisions on the burden of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Seven. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment by an Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure This legislative proposal was sent to you on 19 November. It is a request for consideration pursuant to Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's go get it straight. Who is it to accept a proposal from the Council of Ministers to propose a law on the production of arms and military equipment by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104? Who's in? Abstained? Thank you. So 33 present. A little quiet, please. It's 30, there's no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So we find that we Rules of Procedure, it's a shortened procedure. I thank you. We're going to the 8th to the 9th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and this legislative proposal were sent to you on 19 November. This is a request for a brief procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to accept a proposal from the Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a shortened procedure? 45 Who's in? Who's against it? So of 33 there were 28, versus 1, abstention 3. So I figure we have both the majority and the entity majority. There is no need for entity voting, and I find that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure? This concludes the 8th point of the agenda and we move to the 9th point of the agenda, which is Ad. Nine. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administrative Procedure Act, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. You received the Rules of Procedure, Dama and gentlemen, and this bill of law on November 19th, and a shortened procedure is required. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the procedure of Article 104 concerning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administrative Procedure Act? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Of the 33 present, 30 for, 3 were restrained. He didn't mind. I agree that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure in accordance with the procedure of Article 104, which means a shortened procedure for this law. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad. Ten. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure also gave you this law on November 19th. A shortened procedure shall be required in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the vote. Who is it to adopt Article 104's procedure on the proposal of the Council of Ministers? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So I find that with one vote against and one abstention, we accept. 46 So we have the entity majority and the total majority, accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 11. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act You have received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act. As you have seen, the Joint Commission has agreed on amendments adopted in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and proposes that the homes adopt this conclusion, which approves the normative technical regulation of the Law according to the amendments adopted. I put to the vote the Joint Commission's report with the proposed conclusion. Who's to accept this report? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we unanimously accepted this conclusion and thus concluded the 11th point of the agenda. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 12. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text: (a)Law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH, (b)Law on the Insurance Agency in BiH, (c)Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH – Proposer Election Commission I would like to inform you that the College has proposed members. Please give it to me. No, no. Here, please, give me, you don't have to read. Give me the names of the members of the Commission. So the Law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities: Novaković, Raguž, Ćeman. For the Law on the Insurance Agency in BiH: Jahić Elmir, Kragulj Nikola and Sopta Ruža. For the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH; Šefik Džaferović, Zorić Vinko and Dr Petar Kunić. 47 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Nobody's answering. Who is it to adopt the composition of the proposed committees? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I don't konstatovati we're unanimous, with two, three abstentions. So I find that, with three abstentions, we have not adopted a single vote against the composition of a committee to bring the text into line on these legislative proposals. We're moving on. Are you looking for a break? Sead Palavrić is announcing. You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10693	I'm on behalf of the SDA Club, please pause for an hour. We can take half an hour, and now we're voting. Suit yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10694	An hour's break. And I beg you MPs, so if it's an hour's break, we'll be here within the hour. Don't take an hour to last an hour and a half. We need to make a statement. By half now, the club president may be looking for it, but if it's an hour, we need to make a statement. Here's Sead's meeting for half an hour. So at half two, meet me in the O.R., please. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the 13th item of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] It's Ad. 13. The motion for a decision to suspend the parliamentary term of office of Dr Hasan Muratović for resigning Mr Hasan Muratović on 15 December of this year, as well as all functions in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The resignation requires that all functions it has under its parliamentary mandate be suspended as of 1 January 2004. The resignation was adopted on 16 December in the Parliamentary Assembly. Item 1 of Article 1 of point 10. Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law has laid down the reasons why a member of the authorities at all levels ends the mandate before the term of office has expired, including the resignation. The second view of this member says the mandate of a member of the authority ceases on the day of performance, abandonment, the performance of one of the reasons for the termination of the term of office. 48 It is also prescribed in this position that the competent authority shall determine the termination of the term of office no later than 3 days from the day of the date of the occurrence of the reason for the termination of the term of office. As Mr Muratović indicated that his mandate ended on 1 January 2004, which is the time of the holiday when we will not have a session, we put this issue on the agenda of this session so that the seat of MPs could be filled as soon as possible. You've also received a proposal for a draft decision to open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Potočnik Mladen came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10695	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, respecting Mr. Muratović's free will to decide on such a step of opinion, I think we have a big problem, and that is the problem of the Council of Europe. In fact, Mr Muratović, as far as I am aware, was very well represented by this country in the Council of Europe and there are two possible, or two possible solutions. It is one thing to ask Mr Muratović to take another time until an adequate replacement is found for the Council of Europe, which I would say to his leadership, and the other is still whether there is any way that Mr Muratović does not take this move, because I think it would, or that it would be a great harm for not only this parliament, but also for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10696	I thank my fellow Potočnik. Who's next to the word? Is anyone answering for a word? Here's Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10697	Here, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs before us are this decision, so this resignation of Mr. Muratović is explained as a personal act because, an act of personal nature and I as a man who has had the opportunity to work with Mr. Muratović, not only in this home, but also in the executive authority, I can show and personally that I am very, very sorry, not getting into motives and reasons, and that I am really joining those assessments that they believe will be one handicap for both this home and the Parlamometer Assembly as a whole. I came forward because here in this decision it states that since 1 January 2004, Mr Muratović has ceased his mandate, and Mr Muratović is the head of our parliamentary delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and not only is he the head of our delegation, but he is also the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So I join those grades Mr. Potočnik gave. I really think 49 represented Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Parliament in a very short time. And that is why I think this decision should not take effect on January 1st, because, in late January, it is the regular first session of the year in Strasbourg and I think Mr Muratović should definitely be at that session. This is my personal opinion, and I think there is a reason for this because of a continuity, if there are no means or reasons or arguments already, or if his personal arguments are stronger for the decision to come into force after that session, and until then a quality consultation on how, how to represent and lead this delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is carried out. And if this decision is final, I can only thank you for one extraordinary cooperation that was not only professional, but also had the dimensions of really one respect and the way that we should all approach and work in certain institutions where we are delegated outside.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10698	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10699	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly prefer that others speak of one Mr. Muratovic and Professor Muratović as a man and as an MP more than I do, and I know Professor Muratović well and we are party colleagues and I am sorry that we have come to this position. This is therefore a personal act, for the personal reasons of the respected professor Muratović, an esteemed colleague and I would certainly be as happy as Mr. Potočnik if Professor Muratović, if there is therefore any room to make a different decision and withdraw this resignation. If things remain the way we are now, then he would certainly join the proposal of Mr Raguž, as the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly is sitting at the end of January or early February, that this decision should not take effect on 1 January but on 1 February, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is then, since he and the vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is Professor Muratović. Otherwise I say, I wish the professor would change his mind, and if things stay the way they are, it's mine, or I just have to thank him for everything that he's done as an MP and as a man for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to express my regret that we are in such a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10700	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Dr. Sead Avdić answered the question. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10701	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would also like to say that I am surprised with this resignation especially from the aspect of the behaviour or the duties of Vice-President of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, Dr Muratovic. Which means that this position received by Bosnia and Herzegovina is the highest position Bosnia and Herzegovina has in international associations and simply such bodies, meaning from this position it would be good for Dr Muratović to objectively say to his colleague Džaferović, if there is any room for manoeuvre to reconsider this act and this step of resignation at the position of MPs, MPs, or member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Knowing the good influence of Dr Muratović and what he was doing, I am his deputy on the Council of Europe Political Committee, which means that his personal personal role in this was irreplaceable and that Bosnia and Herzegovina and its delegation began simply to represent an entity in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. æ So I plead once again to consider this resignation, and the other parties also join, a minimum that can be expected from the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is that on February 1st, Dr Muratović would simply stop him from serving as MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10702	I thank Dr. Avdić. Who's next to the word? Here you go, Dr. Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10703	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you first of all to those who spoke positively about my work, and thank you to everyone else who has the same opinion, and thank you to everyone else in this House, I have had full openness and I think useful cooperation, regardless of party membership, to some ideological discussion, etc. Thank you, too, for showing me confidence to remain in this function until the end of this first session. I think it's a good solution because it's objectively unprepared for our delegation's quality in some new composition. And I want to say here that I definitely want to attend the first session of Parliament behind that session that begins on January 26th to stop my mandate. So I resigned with a firm intention and very strong reasons not to be a member of Parliament anymore. Those reasons are exactly what I have stated and I want to remind all those who have known me for many years that I have never speculated in politics, 51 nor had a single conflict. So I have no conflict today, nor am I leaving these functions because of any conflict. I am leaving simply for the reason that I have stated and I want to remind you that my university was the capital of my work in the war, when I was prime minister, when I was ambassador to Zagreb, etc. etc. And that I never wanted to leave that job for the expense of professional politics. So I don't want to be engaged on my principles. Only in politics, but I also think that anyone who knows me, that I will remain fully active in all the issues that are important to this country and that I will actively deal with them except in this function. So I'm staying active until this session is over, but I definitely want a decision to end my term today on February 1st actually. It may be the 2nd or 3rd that this session will end, but I would like to be there then and thank you all once again for your confidence and until then I want to inform you and all the members of the delegation that I have not seen who is permanent or any spare member, that I have introduced a system of work in which one who prepares to be active in both political parties there and in committees and in the Assembly that these people have gone to the delegation in the Assembly and I want it to be so in the future. I would like to say that lobbying for the start of our EU accession negotiations is as important as carrying out those 16 obligations. The least important lobbying in Brussels in bilateral relations, here in the international community, and I would especially like to underline that lobbying is as important from official bodies as from all political parties. So political parties, regardless of whether the position or opposition is of exceptional importance in lobbying for our country and I can tell you and particularly significant in Strasbourg where work is largely taking place through groups of political parties. Here's another thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10704	I thank Dr Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10705	Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10706	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed guests, I am taking the opportunity, of course, to thank Dr Muratović for the professional performance of the parliamentary duties and the hopes of all of his fellow relations within this parliament. He was a co-worker when we got along and we didn't get along on certain things. Of course, I am in favour of respecting the will of the MPs, and I think it is good for us to determine that on February 1st, Dr Hasan Muratović's mandate ends, that we wish him successful works and I believe that wherever Dr Muratović is hired, he will work usefully for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not agree that anyone irreplaceable, there are no 52 irreplaceable in politics and this is another contribution from Dr Muratović that we all understand that political functions are transient and that people need to do what they think they can do best and give the greatest benefit. So once again, with thanks for professional work, friendly and collegiate relations, I want to support this personal position of Dr Muratović and I think it is useful to lead the delegation at the January session, and to have a decision taken with 1 February and to forward it as such to the Permanent Election Commission so that it can define the replacement and so that Parliament has a new MP within Parliament. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10707	Mr. Belkić answers his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10708	Here I am on behalf of the Party for BiH Club to express regret that in some way Mr Hasan Muratović leaves us formally and to express satisfaction for this work so far in the belief that Professor Muratović said that he would be present and active in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life in any other way. I wish him on behalf of the club the most beautiful in his personal life and in his business engagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10709	I thank Mr. Belkić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I am concluding the debate and I propose that we make a decision to determine that Mr Hasan Muratović, on 1 February 2004, ends the mandate of MPs at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina for his resignation in the post. And the special conclusion is that Mr Muratović runs our delegation at the January session. Who's to make this decision, the conclusion? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the content of this decision and the conclusion that Dr Muratović is leading the delegation at the January session in the Council of Europe. That's the end of the 13th agenda. 53 We move to the 14th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 14. A review of the composition of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by Dr. Sead Avdić. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Avdić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10710	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a decision to elect members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By an analysis of the composition of this decision, but above all by means of the Joint Commission, one new practice that will be verified in full with the new Rules of Procedure, the analysis suggests, let's say I can specifically propose, means objectively 12 members of the Commission, one is conditional on the opposition, and in this context the structure of parliamentary parties is not represented in the House of Peoples or the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the initiatives suggest that it would be good, that it would be directed and suggested from this pay phone to say the SDA, which has four MPs here from the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, as well as the SDS who have 3 MPs, also set aside one seat for other parliamentary parties in terms of changing the structure of this commission and in this context I call on these two political parliamentary parties to simply consider this suggestion, that is, this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10711	I thank Dr. Sead Avdić. Who's next to the word? Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10712	When it comes to this committee, I think we can only talk about members who are from the House of Representatives. So, the fact is here we have Mr. Džaferović and Sead Palavrić from the SDA who has 10 MPs in this house. We have Adem Huskić from SBiH who has 6 MPs, Martin Raguž from HDZ who has 5 and Momčilo Novaković from SDS who has 5 and Mr Blagojević from the opposition parties. I think this, this composition reflects the proportion in this home. The second reason Mr. Džaferović is not on any committee other than this, I think, except for the colleagues, and it is ugly to talk about himself, but it is a shame that Seada Palavrić is the only woman in this commission. Since, or given the standards of parliamentary surveillance in the area of security, I 54 think there should have been more women, and than one, and I don't think it would really be appropriate in this House to look for space for more opposition. So there's one place for the opposition. If it is necessary to search for him, let him be sought in the House of the Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10713	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Dr. Petar Kunić answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10714	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say something on the trail Mr. Avdić said. In fact, the customs in the world are in other parliaments that the opposition enters such commissions. I think we need to learn more about party life. We still live in a party so-called party. Modified systems. This is a party approach. Therefore, both this commission and many other commissions should reflect the structure of the Assembly. We have courts, judicial reform and major problems there precisely because the international community believes that the parties in power will appoint a commission and that is why we have excluded Parliament from the appointment of courts and prosecutors. I therefore think that we must change habits and slowly involve the opposition in the structure of such committees. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10715	I thank Dr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10716	Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10717	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed guests, I think it makes sense. I have also today supported Dr Avdić's proposal for the country in which we live and for the seriousness of the work that Parliament needs to deal with. I think there are few MPs who are not in at least three or four commissions for the reasons that there are many committees, and few are the compositions of Parliament. But it would be good if this commission and other joint committees reflected the structure of the therefore party structure of Parliament. You see, we do, so now I'm going to talk about our home, of course. There is no opposition in the House of Nations at all. So the House of Peoples is shocked by the parliamentary majority. And good if it's made by my seeing a mistake at first, we can't influence it. In my view there is therefore a possibility when it comes to the House of Representatives the only party that has two therefore members of the commission is the SDA. And if you can create 55 moods. There is no SDS within the House of Representatives, there is within the House of Peoples, within the House of Peoples. The SDS has only one, the other is from the opposition's order, if we were MPs from the RS. So, there's only this possibility here if there's a good will, and I think we're doing a good right in which we live, to make that shift, and to suggest to the House of People that where there are SDS two to put one from the PDP because they are together a parliamentary majority, because there's a representative of the Oipsive Party and there's no House of Peoples. But let's make a real commission that will be the admission of a commission that cares about what they call the BiH Armed Forces. It would be a good shift, of course, I'm not going to suggest to anyone that they're retreating, but it seems to me that such a mood should be created. And in the conversation I have to say with those who favor BiH, people wonder that's the case. That by no means did I suggest Mr Blagojević then no one, so no one from the opposition would be. Okay, there's no party either, they make up the parliamentary majority. So now all we need to do is see if there's any good will for us to make a correction within the House of Representatives, and to suggest to the House of Peoples if they will, but there's no opposition there. So they can do it again will be from the parliamentary majority, where such an electoral structure of delegates. So, we can only propose within our House and I suggest there is therefore a possibility either that Mrs Palavrićć but here she has reason to be women, not represented and that reason seems to me both rational or Mr. Šefik Džaferović to say that someone from any opposition party. So, I'm not pleading for anyone in particular, but it seems to me to me that someone with an affinity, who wants to work on that commission to make it work. Thank you. Martin Raguž came forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10718	Here, Mr. Chairman, I have a proposal for membership. He's referring to my position. I am a member of this Commission, of this commission and in agreement with the people of the club, I think that my obligations as co-chair of the Foreign Affairs Commission and I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this, have demanded at one point that because of the importance of this Commission, it was thought to be me, but I think it is logical that we share this burden of responsibility within the club, and since Vinko Zorić is a man who has serious health problems, and in some ways has been resolved and is in a position to be in full capacity of membership, I suggest therefore that my place in that commission so that I can do these remaining duties that I have, in a better way, take up it. We only have one position in this House and I don't think she should be questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10719	I thank my colleague Raguž and it is not a questionable position of HDZ member, I think that at least my position is that we can accept this proposal for Mr. Raguž to be Mr. Vinko Zorić instead. Who's next to the word? 56 Ladies and gentlemen, a little seriousness to bring an end. If no one answers, _________: /He didn't come out for a pay phone/ Well, can 13 be No, it's a joint commission, please. So no, it just seems like there's no mood, no one wants to get back together. Here's Mr. Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10721	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I've been waiting for this commission, so you should know. I didn't want to run on purpose to be a member of any commission. I believe that the issue of defence reform and the security policy issue in BiH is a very important issue, and since I have also been the chairman for the first 8 months, and here is the vice-president now, I did not want to run to be a member of any commission. I think I'm the only MP who's not a member of any committee. I have a commitment to work very seriously and responsibly in this Commission for Defence and Security Policy, and I, for these reasons, cannot and do not want to resign from this commission. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10722	I thank my colleague Džaferović. So, there is, so the solution is just to be Mr. Vinko Zorić instead of Mr. Martin Raguž. That's the result of this debate. Here you go, _______: /He didn't come out for a pay phone/
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10723	Let the man say what he's got
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10724	Here I was just trying to correct my colleague, Džaferović, because he and I are working on a committee together. So it's not true that he's not a member of any commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10725	I thank my colleague Zorić. Here's Mr. Džaferović wants 57
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10726	So, the truth is. So, I'm sorry, I'm a member of the Administrative Commission. However, I am willing to resign to membership in the Administrative Commission and, if I, I do so much there, and I am so opposed to certain decisions of the Administrative Commission, that I simply do not consider myself a member of that Commission and if it is an exit and a solution, I will resign to the seat of the Administrative Commission, if that is the solution. So, you're right, I thank you, to know, but this is true, because throughout my term of office, I've been arguing with the members of the Administrative Commission about known things, and I'm willing to resign for membership in the Administrative Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10727	I thank my colleague Džaverović. I'm asking you to speak nicely about our commissions, I think that commission is doing a lot of work, and it's working well. The second thing is that a Member of the Commission can agree or disagree, and it is not the point of the agenda of the Administrative Commission, but the Commission for, the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission. So, as far as I can tell, we're done arguing. Now we have to make a statement. We're sorry, there's no will, there's no movement, that's how it is. We must respect the will of the MPs. So, the only change is to accept the amendment to be Mr. Vinko Zorić instead of Mr. Raguž. We partly justified this agenda point. Who's in favour of accepting this change? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? No, two abstentions, thank you. So, most of the votes we adopted the amendment, that instead of Mr. Raguž, Vinko Zorić, we did not achieve the goal for which Dr. Avdić sought the agenda point. I regret that we failed to do so, I regret that they failed, I ask my colleagues to form a commission with the other committees, of course, in accordance with the party structure, and it is good to take care of the independence of individuals, but that must not be the main reason. I'm sorry the SDA didn't get the strength and give one place. I'm sorry it's not, but we'll see if there's gonna be a shift and an SDS in the House of Peoples, but that, we can't discuss it. So I'm concluding this agenda point. After that we have the constitution of the Commission I ask you, if we have a report of the service, whether the Commission has succeeded in reaching agreement on the same text of the Law on indirect taxation. No results, you'll be notified in time. There may be a need for another session, yes, please. I'm asking the service to check, let's see, don't press. We'll wait if she agrees. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10728	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10730	So I suggest you take a break for 10 minutes, so the O.R. in 10 minutes can check the condition. Is the Commission going to finish the job today, to have that information and then to make this decision, if the Commission is going to finish the job for the chess, in two, in three, I am ready to wait here today for us not to meet again on one issue only. I beg you to do so, and we will see further steps after we get that report.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10731	Thank you, I'm asking you to wait in place until someone from the service leaves, so we don't take a break because I'm afraid I won't be waiting for you half an hour ago if you get out. So, please, let's wait in our seats, and we'll see. If the Commission has an assessment that it will agree, we will wait for today to finish the job. If we do not press, the Commission will inform the College when the job is done, and we will schedule a session concerning a statement on this problem. I suggest you sit on the bench, we make a deal. I would like to inform you that here we have used this time to establish the Commission's leadership for the defence of security policy, we have been waiting here to see what the Commission, the Joint Commission, will do to achieve the text of the Law on indirect taxation in the same way as the text. So, the Commission has only to start working, so they took a break in 15 minutes. So I'm not familiar with the flow unless I know that one part of the thing is settled, one part remains to agree. It is a matter of Parliament whether it will make a decision to wait, so let us wait until the Commission is finished, if it ends today, or if we decide that the Commission agrees and when it agrees with the text of the law, informs the College, and that we are scheduled to hold a session in which we simply confirm their decision, to be informed, to consider the law adopted. I ask therefore, your position, I cannot, of course, make my own decision, nor do I want it, please it does not have to be 29. we will see how the Commission ends. Here's Mr. Džaferović's word, so Mrs. Palavrić. Here you go, I still think there you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10732	You see, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty, therefore, to pass this law so that it enters into force on 1 January 2004, because then it begins with the work of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Against these facts, we need to edit our activities. Waiting for the 29th is impossible because even if the 29th would send him to the BiH Official Messenger, he cannot enter into force until 1. So we don't have much space, we've been put in a position, so we have a day, two maximum three days available. We have three next options, three next options. First of all, since we're here today, let's wait for more chess, two as long as it takes, and wait for the Commission's report, to see if it will therefore agree, to adopt it here today. Secondly, if we don't decide on that, then we'll schedule a House session tomorrow and at the latest, at the latest, it could be on Monday 23rd. After that, on Monday 22nd, after that, I think we're gonna get into teatnot and we're not gonna get the job done. In this time, tomorrow the House of Peoples and I will be sitting, on Monday. I beg you, therefore, to bear in mind this fact. As far as I'm concerned, personally, I'd like to wait today, and if we don't wait, then these two options remain. Tomorrow, or Monday.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10733	I thank my colleague Džaferović for his word, Seada Palavrić, and Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10734	I want to ask all my colleagues and colleagues that we have enough patience today and that we finish this job today. We know how important the Law on indirect taxation is. We know that 15 million of us seem to be in the air, questionable if the law is not passed in time and if it does not come into force before the new year, or the new year. I also know that the believers of Orthodox faith have a holiday tomorrow and that tomorrow's session cannot be held, I don't think it's economical to have a 23rd and 29th session that's too expensive and I think it's cheapest to wait. I have the impression and some announcements that the Commission could reach a consensus on two other issues that have not been resolved and that this law is today being passed. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10735	I thank my colleague Palavrić, Mr Belkić answered his word. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10736	I am very grateful to Mrs. Palavrić for reminding us of all these facts that I believe know birds on the branch of this branch, and deadlines etc. But I want to remind us, first of all, that the circumstances for working on reconciliation have already been acquired on the 10th of this month. I ask the College, why he didn't intervene immediately, and along with the House of Nations, he arranged complete procedures. As far as we're concerned, I'll wait until 12, to 1:30 a.m., but don't put us in a situation where we're waiting for him to call, he won't call, some negotiation, some deals, some OHR people, etc. Please, so we have to face the fact that we're bringing ourselves into this situation, not anyone else, but ourselves. So as far as we're concerned, we'll be waiting till midnight, but we need to know what we're waiting for and who we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10737	I thank my colleague, Belkić, for his word, Momčilo Novaković. I just want to say that the House of Peoples in the second text adopted this law only on the 11th, so we didn't even get a notice. The session of this house has been scheduled before, so I assume you're monitoring the course of this house's session. So, I am asking only I am not ready for Parliament to be a guinea pig of the Commission's work. The commissions are a serious matter. If anyone thinks they should put 100 things from the hills of the valley today to push from the corner to the corner, and box different situations, then this Parliament into the heartless space. I am in favour of leaving the Commission time to agree on the text, to inform the College, and the College will schedule a session of the House. It's a big deal for the Commission to agree on the text, I repeat. We can wait here tonight, we can wait tomorrow, we can Saturday, we can Sunday, but it just shows who we really are. Parliament in wait, of what. Why we say that the commission phase is an important phase for Parliament's work. So what do you think it's like to work with the Commission when we wait like this for five hours, nervous. And please, I am for every variant Parliament adopts, but let us know. Excuse me, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10738	Thank you very much. This is how I heard from this place. Well, I'm gonna say right now that I'm really going to, and I'd like to wait as long as it takes, if I knew that the Commission was going to finish this job, but I really don't have a guarantee that the Commission would agree that by 4, to 5, to 7, and neither do I. It is a problem, it is a problem, but it is to come back, but it's less of a problem than sitting here waiting for what's going to happen there. If there's a chance the Commission, here I suggest we wait here, they start at 3:30, and we wait here until 16:00, if by 1600 the Commission has no position, that we leave this at 1600 hours. We leave at 4:00, and when the Commission brings a position, let the College schedule. If 61 is a business problem, we won't have a business problem, we won't ask for it to be scheduled in 8 days, as much as the Rules of Procedure or I don't know, if that's the problem, we can adopt the agenda today, and then interrupt the session and then we don't have the obligation to continue the session at some time, but we can do it urgently. So, all the options are open, but I suggest by 4:00, if these questions are really possible in 30 minutes, then here's the extra 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10739	I thank you, please, I beg you to serve each other, so this is waiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10740	In view of the fact that the Commission has been sitting and suspending work, it is for legitimate reasons. Speaking to members, here's Gligorić, at half past four, flag her as she says they agree to continue tomorrow. And in order for us not to be here right now to comment on whether it's older coke or egg, I don't think it's right for us to wait an hour, two, and what, like, six, the law falls. Here's my question. I mean, don't be so insecure. I propose this variant three, Jaferovic's, variant three, to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10741	Dr. Živković, come in. I ask you a little patience, you see we cannot schedule a session of Parliament in advance until we have received a report from the Commission. Don't make me do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10742	No, no, noNikola no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can open the session now, don't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10743	She can't open it if she doesn't, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10744	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10745	You made an appointment on the 29th, and you don't have any material.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10746	He'll dobići it from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10747	Well, I'll get it from the Commission and you and me, don't make sense like that 62.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10748	Šefik, please be patient, so do you intend to terrorise Parliament here? If you will, I will sit there, you lead the Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10749	I don't know who's terrorizing you or me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10750	So please don't let me lead Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10751	And don't insult me without need.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10752	Well, give us some patience and let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10753	You're second, Lagumdžija said it first, you're second
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10754	Well, here's just you and me and Lagumdžija. To make an appointment, we must have a report. If the report is reached by the Commission tomorrow, we will schedule a session of Parliament to adopt. If we reach tonight, we will schedule a session of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10755	We have a few options left here, but I think it would be fine, given that all the political options and representatives of the people have come out, and HDZ has expressed its opinion as one of the participants to this debate and to the Commission, because I would accept that we remain here for up to 4 hours, although it is a kind of pressure from this Parliament on the Commission, to make it known within a certain time frame, either way. Because if HDZ thinks we won't be able to do it by 4, then there's no point in waiting until 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10756	So, I ask Parliament, shall we, therefore, I am, for all possible options. If we wait, we wait. If a person is ________: /He didn't go out for a pay phone/ What was the third proposal? There's a session of the House of Peoples Monday. We can do Tuesday, only with that dot. No, we have a meeting at the House on Monday. We don't have an O.R. 63 We can Tuesday, is that 23rd Tuesday 23rd, can, can Tuesday. I'm sorry, and we've got it before Nikol's day, so we've been sitting around all day. Can we accept this? So let's let the Commission work and agree on a condition that we schedule a session for the 23rd with this agenda point. Who's up for it? It has all the exits, the 23rd session, it's the Commission's agreement report. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Yeah, let me just count a little bit so I can give you a little bit, please give me a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10758	23 at 10:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-18-0.u10759	So 26 for, 4 against, no abstentions. I'm guessing we scheduled a session at 10:00 on Tuesday 23rd. Thank you. There's no need for us to send you calls. So the 23rd at 10:00. It's not a sequel. It's a new session. ________: / Didn't come out for a pay phone/ What's the agenda? The agenda shall be one point of the Commission's report. Well, if we do, if we don't, he'll come, and we'll see. The session was completed at 4:30.
