ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8478	... I am opening the 15th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers present here, representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the embassies who have expressed their desire to monitor the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the media and, of course, all present in this hall. So today is the 15th session of the House of Representatives. We planned to work until Friday, and the second term earlier was not possible because of the international obligations of the Members of the Council of Europe and the obligations of the club presidents, to work until 12.45, so up to 15 to 1, after which we would take a break by 14 hours, and after that we would resume our work until we completed what we had planned and what we would already adopt as the agenda of today's session. I find that there are 36 MPs present in the O.R. right now. We're still 41. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission, after we have determined the end of the term of office of Borislav Paravac, has not yet assigned the mandate to the SDS MP from the constituency from which Mr Paravac is from. The college has been informed that I too want to inform you that the problem is of the following nature. The candidate who is next by the number of votes from the electoral unit and the political party is at the same time, currently a delegate to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as I understand it, there is a certain kind of dilemma, because the existing regulations, as we have been clarified, do not resolve this emerging situation. I think, so this is my opinion and I'm going to ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home to get in touch with the Election Commission and to interpret it, but I'm going to tell you right now what I think. So, I think it is completely incompatible that a delegate from the House of Nations can be also an MP in the House of Representatives, or that an MP in the House of Representatives can be a delegate at the same time in the House of Peoples. And I think that's where this situation should be resolved. 2 I say this is inadmissible because here are two or three sessions we hold, and that we have no MPs and I ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission to act accordingly to take this matter into consideration, to contact the Election Commission and to resolve this situation in order for this House to function in its full capacity based on the results of the previous elections. So there's still 41 of us, not 42. Of the 41 MPs, 36 MPs are present at the session. They announced a leave of absence from today's session, Ms. Jelina Đurković, due to her illness, then Hasan Muratović, due to obligations at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, our delegation returned earlier today, Professor Muratović had to stay after he was chairman of the delegation and vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I was announced by Mr. Hazim Felić that he would be officially absent outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. Apart from these persons, the sittings are not present at the moment, Mr Duraković Nijaz and Hadžiahmetović Azra, who, according to the Secretariat and the president of the party's club whose members are to join this session and be present. So we expect to be 38, and then that would be the number of MPs. In any case, 36 of us are present right now. We have conditions for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to this session today, you have received a proposal for the agenda. We, as usual, held a session of the Colleges in an extended class last night. We've considered supplementing the agenda, and we've decided to suggest four additions to the agenda. It's a proposal from an extended college that you got on the bench this morning, as an integral part of the agenda. Compared to what you got from me, or the College and me as chairman of the House, 10 days ago, the difference is therefore in four additional points of the agenda. The first item is the agenda relating to the selection of the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the single text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That law was passed by the House of Peoples. There are some differences in the texts. The law should be passed by the 1st of next month. And we've agreed in the College and we've already hired people to work on it. Today's session is scheduled at 11 o'clock of the Joint Commission of the House of Peoples and of our home, and it is necessary that when we choose that commission, I will later state what the composition of this committee is. So they're already in progress, all preparations have been made. 3 And about that fourth thing when it comes to additions to the original agenda will be at the end of this session the report of this same commission that we will vote on in this first item of the agenda so that today we have a review of the Commission's report, because we want the House of Nations to meet on Monday 30th so that we can have this law ready to be published in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second or third thing that represents the addition is the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity as the 14th item of the agenda. You know that our home voted earlier on a motion for a decision, but it didn't pass into the House of Peoples, so it's thought it wasn't adopted. He didn't pass in part into the House of Peoples. No candidates from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina have passed. The procedure has been repeated, and we need to make a statement today in order to get the final and important institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with these issues that are relevant to it. And like, here's the fourth thing is giving consent to canceling certain bilateral agreements with the Czech Republic. You've also got an explanation, and you've got agreements. The Czech Republic could unilaterally break these contracts, however, as our friendly country, it has requested to do so together with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it is both necessary for the Czech Republic to join the EU and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it requires approval for ratification, so it also asks Parliament to agree on the termination of the contract. So that's three of those contracts that I don't quote them right now. You have them listed in the agenda and it was therefore a proposal from the College to supplement the agenda and therefore consider it already included in the agenda compared to those points that you had the opportunity to see in the call that you had already said about 10 days ago for this session. This is practically all you have today, these 23 points, which are ready for parliamentary procedure, which has passed the appropriate pre-plenar stage of the debate in Parliament. But anyway, I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Here's the word for it, Mrs. Seada Palavrić, and then you, Mr. Lagumdžija, will discuss the agenda, and then Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8479	Dear colleagues and colleagues allow me to welcome you and propose another point on behalf of the SDA Club for this addition of the agenda. So I suggest we put the agenda 4 - Reviewing the Decision of the Administrative Commission on harmonising the wage coefficients in legislation with the executive authority. I think that's the real name of the decision. I wouldn't talk about the essence of the decision right now, because it's just about the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8480	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8481	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have a proposal for two, in a certain way, different additions to the agenda. In fact, the proposal presented by Mrs Palavrić is good anyway, and I think it is imprecise and incomplete because I have to admit that when we saw what was done, we tried to see how Parliament could intervene. Unfortunately, Parliament's opportunities are very low in business. There are three possibilities to do this. The first option is that the Administrative Commission withdraws what it has done. Another option is to use Rule 62 of our Rules of Procedure and to suggest to the Commission in some way, but there is no way that we, I say by the Rules of Procedure, are making any acts binding on the Commission other than amending it. So it's kind of a political atmosphere in Parliament to create that the Commission pulls back what it's done. The second option is to comply with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure draws up a resolution of this House that would give political guidance to both the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions in BiH and that would commit not only our commission, but others who set out to see us doing the same. So that's one more whole solution. And the third option is to use Article 137 to regulate specific questions with a conclusion that can be in a certain way what is the return to the first variant. For these very reasons, we believe that what has been done in the Commission is not something that solves the problem in itself. It's just the tip of the iceberg that's being prepared in some other institutions, entities, cantons that, seeing what we're doing, they're going that same way. That is precisely why Mr. Chairman, because of the overall situation in the country; because of the economic situation in which we are; because the growth rate of industrial production in the first quarter is 5 times lower than in the first quarter of last year; because of the deficit in the trade rate has increased by 30% compared to the same period last year as the Council of Ministers and how well it is known; because employment in this country is 98% and employment in the same period is therefore reduced in physical terms; because unfortunately research shows that 2/3 of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina live in families where they have, including the grey 5 economy income of less than 500 marks per family; due to the fact that in the last few months, research shows that the number of young people who are looking for a solution outside the country; we think that what the Administrative commission did should serve us as a good cause to solve things more systematically. We believe that this is violated, in addition, one of the fundamental principles, which is respect for our own laws, namely the Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not allow what has been done now and this decision is a direct violation of the law, etc. etc. For these very reasons, in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, we propose to establish the political guidelines to be chaired by the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions in BiH and which contain this resolution - the Resolution on the suspension of the increase of the personal income of elected officials in the legislative and executive authority and the repeal of earlier decisions contrary to the Law on the implementation of the BiH Institution's 2003 budget and the policy we adopted. Under 1. All relevant bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as all institutions, are called. There's no need to explain. Great. Well, that's enough. I'll stop here. So you will receive the resolution in 40 copies in the Secretariat and please be in Article 121. The Rules of Procedure shall include this resolution in the agenda, i.e. not to declare ourselves, but to be included in the agenda in accordance with Article 12, and then we shall have the opportunity to discuss it. On the occasion of the agenda, we can talk about this further. So that's one thing. The text of the resolution will be given to you. The second proposal is a little different. In fact, we were very pleased to see yesterday in media information, and today to read that the Council of Ministers adopted one material, namely the offer of the BOSMAL company which has offered to make corridor Vc here and enter that realization. It's a big deal for this country if we can do it the right way. This is one of the issues that should not be a matter of the Council of Ministers, these or those political forces, but such projects in each country are projects of general social interest and need, can always achieve a general social consensus that we all see what we can help. Just for those reasons, so that the thing that's really good doesn't go the wrong way, which can happen. No Niko has the right to play with such big things, and already today we can see that from some statements that some of the things mentioned here are questionable, that they are even contrary to the Law on concessions, etc. etc. Among other things, you can read that today is in the media, if that is true, that the concession should be given for 40 years, which is, I repeat, in the media. And not to say what's in the media. That is precisely why I would ask the Council of Ministers, if it is possible to give us one brief information today, or to deliver it to us, but in any case, for the next session of Parliament, we have a point of order, perhaps in both homes if necessary, to make a serious presentation, to present it to the Commission and to approach one such project as much as possible in a more organised way. So I wouldn't want to speculate on what's in the media, but it's possible that what's in some media 6 stands if it's, it's incorrect to create a single climate that will lead us in the wrong direction and destroy a project of capital importance for this country. So once again, I think it would be good if today the Council of Ministers briefly informed us about this as Parliament, briefly to inform us only, that we know the fact that we would not be seduced by some perhaps malicious interpretations and that for the next session of Parliament, we have a serious debate about what would be done in every country in the world, so there is no reason not to do so in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8482	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Gligorić, then after that Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8483	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for today's session, he would suggest a new agenda item, and it could be at the very end, which is that the House takes a stand on the election of the state's public defender, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Parliament we have already talked about it here, and in the shortest, given that it is only being defined means the agenda, if MPs, and I would like to support it, then in the debate we could say something more, but in the shortest. It is the human policy, in fact the previous one calls the Council of Ministers and after, in my opinion, they have made a failure, because they did not enter the necessary criteria for the election, so that a person against whom I personally have nothing against, who by the OHR, on their recommendation, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons of the Republika Srpska Government has resolved its duties, i.e. replaced, which is said to be criminally, being prosecuted in view of the violation it committed in the time of '92 when it comes to confiscation of the meanings of these contracts. At the same time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Srspska recently resolved the same person's duties because of unconscious work and since we are talking about reforming the judicial system, etc., now at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that such a person can properly keep the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that the House of Representatives should take its stand, put this item on the agenda, at the same time reach one conclusion, and ask the Council of Ministers for all this which I would do in the debate and, of course, add a lot of evidence. I would, Mr. Chairman, beg the meaning and I will leave it to the secretary here as I have formulated the point of this agenda and I would ask indeed the MPs that the House of Representatives needs insight into a single human policy even though in that case a failure is made so harshly, etc. We should, of course, get that information and take our stand. Thank you for your attention. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8484	Thank you. Branka, you see how this goes with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8485	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues have heard the draft agenda. I went out to actually remind myself of one possible item of the agenda proposed by the two committees of this house, the Constitutional and Legal Commission at a session of 12 May this year, and if I am not mistaken a little later, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, somewhere at a session of 15 May this year. What's this about? Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the 28 members of Greko to tell the association and the report of one on the evaluation, namely the assessment of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the problem that the group is making, both to these commissions and to all of you MPs of this assembly. Both the committee I mentioned assessed the need for this report to discuss both the House of Parliament. If I remember correctly somewhere at the end of this month, or possibly in the coming month, there should be one meeting in Strasbourg where the first report on Bosnia and Herzegovina will be discussed and it would be good to have some suggestions discussed by these committees, that is to say, at the House itself, that report. So I went out to remind myself of these conclusions and possibly hear the explanation of whether this is forgotten or the assessment that it is not necessary to discuss at the House session. In any case, a representative of the foreign ministry, or a representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this group, was present at the session, at least the Constitutional and Legal Commission. He heard certain thoughts, and it is likely that echoes will be heard when this report is discussed in Strasbourg. But perhaps it would be good to see this House as well. So it was mine to remind you of this, since the College didn't take this into account, if anything needs to be explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8486	Thank you, Mirsada. Mr. Novaković has a word. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Ćeman, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mirsada. It's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8487	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, today we have 23 points on the agenda according to this amended agenda that we have received and I think that, given the same way that we will have two breaks, one for the work of this commission, and the other, with due regard for Friday, I am afraid that this agenda will be difficult for us to wear out. Tomorrow is Saturday, so, of course, we won't be working so that we can leave it then for some next period to continue this session. That's why I'm surprised by some suggestions here to supplement the agenda and I'll allow myself the right to comment on two proposals in a minute. One comment is on the decision of the Administrative Commission, i.e. the request to discuss it here. I gave my opinion to the Administrative Commission on this matter. There's no need for me to point him out here. So I said and then I expressed a reservation to this, but I voted for it and I will always vote for it because the Commission did so and because I believe that as a member of the Commission I should have done so. I just don't see, I really don't see a reason why politics is being run here right now in the sense that some parties want it better than some other parties. And some, even when they were in power, increased their salaries to their ministers, and now they suggest that these be reduced. Of course, I do not dispute Mr. Lagumdžija's right that when he is in power, he increases his salary, and when he comes down to cut it, that is to say, to demand that it be reduced. It is the right of everyone, but it is not correct for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to introduce a system of manipulation with certain facts. But of course, the attitude on this will give this home and each of us will have a chance. The second question I would like to comment on is a request to put it on the agenda of the review, as far as I understand the appointment of the Republic Public Prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Advocate General, I apologize to the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8488	An entity from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8489	Bosnia and Herzegovina, right. Why would I comment on that? First because we don't have a home to change it, so I think it's even very discussionable if we can discuss it. But what I'm trying to say is that this is someone's proposal and this is an entity's proposal. As far as I know, some kind of proposal on some side had to come. I am not prepared under the 24th agenda to discuss personal problems between Mr Gligorić and Mrs Miletić, whom I honestly do not know and have never seen. I didn't hear a word you said. They're your problems as familiar as I am with solving in court. And it's not fair for every MP to give us here 40 to discuss his personal problem. Otherwise, we're gonna start discussing media problems, and I don't know what it is we're not gonna do or what doesn't put us all down individually. I ask you fellow MPs here to discuss matters concerning what is in the agenda and what is significant. And, of course, some of our personal, personal problems are being solved in the right places. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8490	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. You actually had a comment. You didn't have any suggestions to make. Mr. Belkić asked for a word. Here you go. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8491	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, so I'm going to be saying something in the context of determining the agenda. Members of the Party Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina absolutely understand and respect the right of every MP to propose a supplement to the agenda at any moment and we will support everything we think is useful. However, we want to point to one aspect, which is the aspect of the efficiency of this Parliament's work. We have an extended college institution. So the presidents of political parties whose members today are proposing an expansion of the agenda sat down for three hours last night and we agreed on a agenda. It's not right, it's really not right if someone just, if someone doesn't have another kind of need to say what they're saying about this pay phone, if it's not enough that joke we're working on to know what it's all about. So, if we're going to transfer everything here, we're going to end the Expansive College's institution. So respecting the absolute right of every MP at any time to propose a supplement to the agenda, we ask that we take care of the efficiency of this Parliament's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8492	I thank the gentleman. Mr. Gligorić is looking. You've got the wrong quote, haven't you? What? Please don't let us, yes, bring out and fix the wrong allegations on the agenda. We'll discuss that later.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8493	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I respect your reasons, but in the comment that they gave, they are truly guilty. First Mr. Novaković then exhibits a classic ignorance of the work of the Assembly and the Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers makes any decision of any kind, then according to the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Representatives, discusses it. So, what do you think the Council of Ministers can make decisions about us in that case as if they were independent, as if they had no control over the Parliament who chooses them in their part. Second, this isn't any personal relationship. This is about connecting the mafia in entity-to-state institutions. And I'm not talking about it, if it's written to the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, it's written to the Ministry of Justice, it's written to the Ministry of the Interior, the Independent Judicial Commission, and you're all silent in this country, and at the same time it's because of that, and the same institutions have proven abuse of office you choose here. I have the right as an MP to point out that, and the fact that mob groups, political mobs are sort of hiding and wanting to leave in shape and protect it is another question, and I wouldn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8494	Thank you. Me, well, I knew it was going that way. Mr. Novaković, this has now been a replica, and this is now the answer to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8495	I didn't speak of any crime here, and I wasn't talking about Mr. Gligorić's merits in the fight against crime, and I'm not going to talk about it. I haven't even spoken, and I could talk about a lot more about what's been mentioned here. I, gentlemen, do not protect any crime here or link anyone to crime and ask Mr Gligorić to apologize publicly for what he said here, because I did not protect any crime. I asked to be on the agenda and prayed and suggested, first it does not complement because it is already too large and second to introduce personal problems, and if it should and can, it is the right of MPs. But I wanted it not to be done here. I'm really asking you to do what I say here, and I'm very careful what I'm going to say here when I come out, you're interpreting it the way I say it, not the way someone thinks I said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8496	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And you're looking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8497	Given that my colleague Novaković was here until I came out to mention me in a context that is least incorrect, I am obliged to tell Mr Novaković that during my chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers did not increase any salary. You should know that, if you've already decided to discuss it. You should also know that the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting had the same ministers, as now Minister Čolak, Minister Kebo and other ministers had the salary and allowance as any MP on professional work here. These receipts were as much as they are now about 1,300 marks plus about 800 spray marks. MPs have had about 2,200 marks of salary, as well as ministers, in addition to those various supplements because they live far and wide. The President of the Council of our House had a salary, i.e. a salary and an allowance, a flat or a functional or salary, so what he brought home to his wife was about 2,200 marks. If he reported it all. All right, fellow 11 Belkić, I'm sorry. I don't know what he's reporting. So 2,200 marks were brought by the minister and MP. By decision of this Administrative Commission, by various administrative means, I say to the algurts Members of Professional Work now make about 1,000 marks more for their wives. And that's what we think it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8498	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8499	Let's get sick. munibe, please. Let Mr. Jusufović finish this MP. I ask you a moment, that Ambassador Lagumdžija finish, that we move on, people. Go on, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8500	So once again, I would like to reiterate that Mr. Novaković's quote that you gave is not correct and that now the professional MPs have made a decision to which Mr. Munib Jusufović is calling to increase his incomes that fall within the category of personal income and pauses by 800 marks compared to ministers in the Council of Ministers. I am an MP, and I am responsible for telling you that the job of the Minister is the least said to have the same dignity and the size of the work as the MP. You have now increased your salary by 800 marks more than the minister and it should be returned, not because of 800 marks, but because
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8501	It's happening again. You're done once.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8502	It just doesn't take us anywhere together, and we're not going to participate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8503	Please be nice, so we're opening a debate before there's a Wakat to discuss a particular topic. Vote. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović. Jusufović Munib, guilty of allegation, correcting the wrong allegations. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8504	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I am not going to enter the essence of the decision, in particular that I am President of the Administrative Commission, as counterpart Novaković said, I am not going to speak my personal opinion, because opinions were different. However, I would certainly like to preserve the dignity of this commission on which I am at the helm, and it is not important here that we present who he thought and did not mean it. However, with the fact that I've been mentioned here, they've been said here in the least untrue things mixed pears and apples since '96. In the year, this parliament establishes and has the duty of every mandate to establish relations, to coordinate the coefficients between the executive and the legislative authorities. In other words, between the Minstar Council and Parliament. It was done in every term and I was and in the past it was done the same. It's done this time. It's not true what Mr. Lagumdžija claims, he imports apples and pears, and apples are wages, and pears or something else he puts down. Paushal is provided in all constitutions and all normative acts of all states, and we currently have them from 15 countries, a special category for MPs. And while you were Mr. Lagumdžija in office, it's exactly what Novaković said, you put together a functional allowance and salary so the pay is what you were talking about. It is no secret that also the salary of the current MP is 2,030 marks. So that's the truth. And if you want to do it for the public that you gave right away to the press to announce that you have now become principled, that you did not wake up in time and were principled then. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8505	I'm closing the debate on this subject. We're moving on to a plea. Please, this isn't a topic debate. I'm closing the debate on this subject. This isn't a debate on the subject. Please, nice. Mr. Lagumdžija, I beg you, yes. Just take it easy. Mr. Lagumdžija, I've never been to anyone in my life, and I've never terrorised anything like you said. Remember what you just said. It's an honor to you. I'm just trying to put this parliament in a position to do what it does, and all that you're having as a debate on what you're discussing right now in the agenda, you're going to have a chance to discuss when we get into the essence and get into the agenda. We keep replacing things. In the first two hours of the session, during the debate on the agenda, we talk about all the topics and then, of course, some of them leave the session and there are no votes on important items of the agenda such as the Law on Education, such as the US Agreement, as it was the last time. Instead of waiting for the vacuum to come and then we'll discuss all things, I won't deny it now, I'm just appealing to you. I'm not terrorizing anyone. My appeal, of course, if I fail, you're right, I'll give you my word. You're right, Mr. Lagumdžija. It's a three-minute debate on the agenda. You're already twice for a pay phone and some more, of course not just you. I didn't interrupt, probably because I was terrorizing you. 13 So this is the third time. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Try to be as short as you can in a minute to finish. Hold on a second. You have the right to ask, but don't ask me to take a break on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8506	So, Mr. Džaferović, the fact that you gave me the word speaks in favour of your fixing yourself. Sir, Mr. Jusufović here said two incorrect things that I want to refer to within those three minutes without referring to other things that require much more time. One, I repeat. While I was chairman of the Council of Ministers, there was no increase in anything in my mandate. I repeat, while I was chairman of the Council of Ministers, there was no increase or budget cuts in my mandate. Two. Mr. Jusufović, I haven't made any statements to the media that you said here in a little mechanical way that I went out and told the media that I could now impute something here to you through the media, and now it's perfectly clear that you have a problem with the media, that you have a problem if someone makes statements. And now I'll probably give them up when this is all gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8507	He answered, please. Mr. Moranjkić came forward for the word. Here you go. But please just for a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8508	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it's really tiring to listen to the beginning of every single one of our parliaments. This is beyond all criteria. I propose a agenda point – Analysis of the work of the College and the Enlarged College. So these people don't perform their duties properly under the Rules of Procedure, and that's why here's a very short one. Don't let it really, or let those who won't participate in this kind of a joke let us know that we come to Parliament for an hour or two after Parliament is scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8509	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. I fully agree with your findings, if so, but I do not agree that the College is responsible for such a situation. Here's what kind of fire I'm in as a man who, in the name of the College, presides to avoid the situation you're talking about right now. But you have suggested a agenda point to discuss the work of the College as well. We can also take the chairman's freedom, so first 14 of the chairman's, then the College, then the Expansive College. So there's no problem with me. It's all open. I'll put it to a statement and vote for your proposal, Mr. Moranjkić. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on the agenda. We're going to a plea now. The first proposal was Mrs. Palavrić's suggestion to take as a part of the agenda, you probably thought somewhere after these points did you? Okay, so as the last item of the agenda, or as you say, put the debate in place, right, reviewing the decision of the Administrative Commission on the coordination of the coefficients of professional representatives and all those to whom the decision applies. So reviewing that decision. Yeah. I didn't mean to talk. The president, please be careful this way. The president of the Party for BiH Club, Mr. Beriz Belkić, has a word. I'm asking him out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8510	I'm asking for a break of 10 minutes. I'm really asking for understanding to be able to come up with a proposal, an initiative for today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8511	At the request of the president of the Party for BiH, Mr. Beriz Belkić, I set a break for 11 hours and 20 minutes. We continue at exactly 11 and 20. Mr. Beriz Belkić, president of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, asked for a break and I give him my word. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8512	Thank you very much. So the Party for BiH MPs' club has asked for a break precisely because of a set of initiatives, i.e. a proposal to expand the agenda. We will not support the expansion of the agenda for any point proposed except for those which, according to the Rules of Procedure, must be classified for reasons that for no initiative we had the most relevant information and very difficult to determine. We've never discussed any of this before in an extended college. I absolutely support that for the next session, all those who have initiated the enlargement of the agenda ensure that relevant information is supplied with their initiatives. Then we'll back it up. We've heard today say a number of 15 contradictory data about the same thing and it's very difficult without a chance to determine certain things. So we will not support the expansion of the agenda, except for those things that are required under the Rules of Procedure to be classified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8513	I thank Mr. Belkić. You're looking for a word again, Moranjkić. It's gonna take a minute. Let's give him our word not to interrupt. Everyone said so. Mr. Moranjkić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8514	Gentlemen of Parliament, gentlemen of the presidency, I have been irritated by the sequence of events that have been going on since the beginning of this House and I have suggested a point. My goal was to point out some weaknesses that have been repeating us for a long time, and I'm giving up my proposal to expand the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8515	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. That's why it was useful. The MP had a concrete attitude regarding his proposal. So I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. The first proposal was the proposal by Mrs. Seada Palavrić, president of the SDA Club to include the agenda point of reviewing the decision of the Administrative Commission on the coordination of the coefficients of professional representatives, club presidents, commissions and the chairman, or vice-president of this house. I'm making a statement on Mrs. Palavrić's proposal. Who's for Mrs. Palavrić's suggestion? So reviewing the administrative commission's decision. Mrs. Palavrić's proposal. Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you. Give me the results. Of the 37 MPs, 6 voted for, 22 were against, abstentions were 9. I find that the proposal by the lady, I find that Mrs Palavrić's proposal has not received the necessary parliamentary support. Moving on, the next promoter was Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Lagumdžija has submitted a resolution to this house. She was filed shortly after Mr. Lagumdžija's arrival at the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 121, I read to you the first and second position of Rules of Procedure 16 – The House can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems and needs and establish political guidelines to be implemented by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers or other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And attitude 2. – any representative may submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session unless the House decides it is necessary to consider it previously. By acting in this position, I ask MPs who is so that Mr Lagumdžija's motion for a resolution can be considered on the committee? Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, go ahead. No, no, no. Please, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8516	Business intervention, Mr. Džaferović. You have quite correctly read Article 121 of Section 2. It is true that any MP can submit a motion for a resolution and that is the point done. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session. So he'll be considered. Just a little while, unless Dom decides that a commission needs to be considered first. What does that mean with a sentence line like this, with a decimal point, a new point, a line of words. That this is on the agenda. When it comes to that agenda point, then the House will plead and eventually conclude that it will go to the committee not to discuss it further. Please. So let me be very clear. This is when it's done by Article 121 on the agenda. And when we get there, it'll be except for. And then you can say we won't discuss it right before the hearing, we're asking him to go to the commission. There's no problem. Yes, it is. That's just procedural, please. So that we do not introduce a vote needlessly on resolutions of 121. There's a time when you'll put it back on the board, when you
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8517	I thank you, Mr. Lagumbian, for your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 12(2) reads, I read again - any MP can submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be discussed, discussed at the House session, unless the House decides it is necessary to consider it first, the commission will consider it. I did it two or three times on purpose. The Rules of Procedure are therefore completely clear and I have interpreted it this way and do not want to do anything other than the Rules of Procedure. I ask Dom who is to refer this resolution to the committee in charge? Who is it to refer this resolution to the committee in charge? 17 please just a little bit. This is going to be at the House session. Whatever the Commission says, it will therefore come to the House's session. This isn't a rejection of the agenda. This is just respect for the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Palavrić had a proposal to discuss these things today. Who's in favor of going to the House's session? I apologize to the commission. Did you count it? Who's against the proposal to go to a committee meeting? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you very much. Give me the results of the vote. Nikola, please don't. I'm already done with no need to be irritated. Voting scores are next. Of the 37, I would like to ask your attention, of the 37 MPs, as far as it is present in the O.R. in order for the resolution to be sent to the commission to be voted by the MPs, the committee responsible, against the vote of 1, there were six MPs abstentions, and I will conclude that this House has made a decision that the motion of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's MPs would be discussed on the committee, and will then come to the debate at this house, of course. It's a competent commission, which is decided by the College. The College shall refer to the competent committees. That's what the College's decision is about, and that's the Administrative Commission, if you ask me, which commission is that, Mr. Lagumdžija?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8518	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8519	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Lagumdžija, I will vote to go to all the committees in this House. If I have to, I'm my attitude, and I didn't want to talk about this thing on purpose. I did not, on April 14th, react, react, and react as chairman on April 16th. I didn't want to get involved in a debate today to polimise and politicize. I strongly advocate that the decision of the Administrative Commission be put out of effect, when you want to hear both publicly here and get your wages back to the level that was before the decision was made. I have shown it as a member of the Commission. And it will be as far as I'm concerned. That's what the College decides. As far as I'm concerned, there's no interference with all the commissions, so there's logic among other things and what you're talking about is going to the Finance and Budget Committee. Because there's a budget question here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8520	That's what Munib's commission will handle. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8521	Please nice, please nice. Mr Lagumdžija's next proposal was that the Council of Ministers submitted a report to us by the end of this week regarding Corridor Vc in the way Mr Lagudžija formulated it. Who's up for that proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you, too. Give me the results of the vote. From the Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Thank you, too. Please like this. 37 present. 15 was for, against it was 14, abstention 7. There is parliamentary support for the general. From the Federation there were 8, so there are no 1/3, from Republika Srpska there were 5 for, so there is 1/3. We are obliged to agree immediately, since it is the agenda, to perform the alignment. You're in agreement, you're in agreement. So there is no agreement in the College and now we're going to go to a statement in the next round of voting. I'm asking from the Federation v? Who's the Federation against? Yeah, it's numbered. Who's from Republika Srpska against? So here's the deal. The Federation's opposition was 9, from Republika Srpska was 6. It's getting less than 2/3, so I can figure out that Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal is, for now, the last item of the agenda. If we adopt something else, something else will be the last item of the agenda. Last item of the agenda. Got the required majority and will be included in today's session agenda. I therefore request, following this decision, the Home Council of Ministers, from the relevant ministry that, as set out in the draft agenda item for the end of this session, one brief information is provided on what has been done so far on Corridor Vc in order to take that information into account. That's the last item of the agenda. There's time for you to make that preparation and have the minister step forward. Let's move on with the statement on the agenda. We have a proposal from Mr Gligorić that the House is manifested in the selection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's public defender, as Mr Gligorić suggested. 19 Who is in favour of this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you very much. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? From the Federation who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Give it to me. This way of 37 MPs were present. 16 voted for, 10 against, 11 abstentions. The Federation has 10 for, representing 1/3 of the minimum, Republika Srpska 6, 1/3 exists. So I realize that this is now the final item of today's session agenda. There is, there is. Please, nice. 37 MPs are in the O.R. 16 voted in favour, 10 were against and 11 were abstentions. 16 and 10, please nice, for and against 26. Of those 26, 16 represents most. There is therefore a majority of the Rules of Procedure. The abstentions don't count. So you know that well. All those who vote, it is clear in this House and this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8522	The abstentions voted in favour in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8523	Please, Mr. Špirić, you will if God gives you a chance to make a little wider comments from August 9th. Until then, I'm asking you to hold back for a while so I can finish this job with all these problems. Please, nice. We have another proposal from Mr. Ćeman. Actually Mr. Ćeman actually suggested, asked for one more explanation than the proposal. Mr. Ćeman, I can let you know that we had it, so we got to the College. The material is marked as some kind of classified material. We decided to deliver it to all MPs. There's no reason MPs don't have one. It is therefore an evaluation, a report, and if you think it should be at the next House session, it will be included in the next House session. As far as I'm concerned, the College has no problem at all. Are you satisfied with this argument, that I'm not putting your proposal on a plea? Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. And ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have ended this way, after about a hour and fifty minutes, with one break of ten minutes, a debate on the agenda, and now, after all this, I declare that today's session agenda is as follows: 20 1. The selection of three members in the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the single text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, 2. Records from the 13th and 14th session of the House of Representatives, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of Mr Mladen Potočnik to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in BiH (requirement under Article 105). Rules of Procedure, 5 / 1 Proposal for a law on the movement and stay of foreigners and asylum (second reading), 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the single text of the Labour and Employment Agency Act, 7. A report from the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on a single text of the Plant Health Protection Act, 8 / 8 Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (in an emergency procedure), 9. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for an emergency procedure, 10. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a witness protection law under threat and threatened witnesses, 11. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Judicial Police on an urgent procedure, 12. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Transitional Law on the Mergering of Customs Administrations and the Establishment of the Directorate for Direct Taxation by Emergency Procedure, 13. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of state-interest printing operations, 14. A proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity (DERK), 5 / 15 Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2002, 16. General directions and priorities in implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, 17. Plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in BiH, 18. Consideration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategy for implementing Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, 19. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to refugee and asylum centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20. The selection of three members in the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH, 21. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The amended and re-established Agreement on the Development Credit (Promoting the Export of Enterprises between BiH International Association for Development (credit number 3257 BOS), (b) the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, (c) the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina, (d) the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, (d). 21 22. Giving consent to the cancellation of bilateral agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic as 21st point (a) of the Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic of 22 May 2003, (b) the Agreement on Trade and Navigation between the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenians and the Republic of Czechoslovakia, of 14 November 1928 and (c) the Agreement on Co-operation to combat infringements of customs and foreign currency regulations, as of 12 November 1976, 23. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the single text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, 24. Council of Ministers report on the CIPS project and, related to Corridor Vc, will come and the CIPS on agenda 25. Taking this position at home on Mr Gligorić's proposal to appoint Bosnia and Herzegovina's public defender. Dama and gentlemen, it's the agenda of today's session. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The selection of three members in the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the single text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, as I said at the beginning of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, was adopted in various texts in both homes. In the House of Nations, three members were appointed to the joint committee for text alignment. We need to appoint three members from this house. During the day, the Joint Commission would hold a session and submit a report on the alignment that is on the agenda at the end of this session. From the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission we proposed to Mr – Mirsad Ćeman, Ivo Mir Jović and Momčilo Novaković. I'm opening a debate. Any new suggestions? We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who's so we can accept this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House with 36 votes in favour and 1 abstention, without a vote against Mr Mirsad Ćeman, Ivo Jović Mir and Momčilo Novaković, has appointed the text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. 22 And I would ask the members of the commission to, given their term, freely so I can leave this session. I'd just like to pray that when we are, we only know where they're at as long as there's a need for a quorum. So we need to crack that state so I can join here. To finish the job and at the end of this session, as a result the 23rd point report is submitted, so that we may have the law. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. It's Ad. 2. Records from the 13th and 14th session of the House of Representatives you have received. I'm opening a discussion on the records. Who wants to talk? Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go. No, no, no. This is good. A man reads the records and I'm glad we have debates on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8524	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I have no objection to the record as such. I only have one grudge for not knowing, for the chairman and members of the College. We concluded at the 13th session that all answers to the asked parliamentary delivery questions until the next session. That next one was 14. It's 15 now, and we've got a list of these questions that haven't been answered in 15. I ask you to do something to get answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8525	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. So that's not the topic of this agenda point. I'll give you an answer when we get to that agenda point. The next item is parliamentary questions and answers. Does anyone have anything to do with the records? Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8526	I'm talking about the minutes of the 13th session held on May 13th. With regard to point 8 on page 7 of this report – this is a proposal for a general law on cooperatives, a second reading. In the first paragraph, there is one finding that even after the announcement of who participated in the debate, it is said that the constitutional basis is also disputed in this debate and is proposed to postpone the plea. I think the formulation should actually be about these discussions – the constitutional basis has been disputed. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8527	Yes, you're right, Mr. Ćeman. Anyone else want to go over the records? He doesn't want to. So, please, let's get to the record statement. The record of the 13th and then the minutes of the 14th session, respecting the remarks Mr. Ćeman made, because this was indeed the case. We did not dispute, but some disputed, and that was indeed the case at that session. So please service to keep in mind this intervention of Mr. Ćeman. Of course, we also declare it along with the records. She's an integral part of what we're going to say. I ask you who I am to adopt the minutes of the 13th session? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I understand that, unanimously with 37 votes, we accepted the minutes of the 13th session. I'm asking you for the minutes of the 14th session. Who's to accept the minutes of the 14th session? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I agree that we unanimously accepted the minutes from the 14th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. I would like to remind you, Dama and gentlemen, that at the 13th session, within the agenda point - parliamentary questions and answers, we have adopted the conclusion that we have adopted, and this is also the answer to you, Mr Huskić, the Council of Ministers, which is obliged by the next session to deliver the answers to all the questions raised previously. Meanwhile, from 13th session to today, at the 14th session, we did not have this item on the agenda, we received the following answers: - to two questions from Mr Ibrahim Đedović, taken at the 8th session; to Mirsad Ćeman and Seade Palavrić, asked at the 10th session; to the questions of Mirsad Ćeman, Sead Avdić, Mladen Potočnik, Šefik Džaferović and ruža Sopta at the 11th session; to the questions of Milorad Živković, Nijaz Duraković and Nikola Špirić, asked at the 12th session and an additional explanation for the answer to the question that was raised earlier on the issue of Mirsad Ćeman, asked at the 9th session. However, we have not received an answer to another number of questions that we have asked, but the fact that there has been a slightly more significant number of answers. 24 You have therefore received a review of the questions to which we have not received answers and with this review, of course the College of the House of Representatives will instruct the Council of Ministers to deliver answers to the remaining parliamentary questions. That's how I answered Mr. Huskić and you and your asked question. I'm going as per the Rules of Procedure now. I ask Mr Ibrahim Đedović is he pleased with the answers to his two questions? Mr. Đedović is pleased. Thank him. I ask Mr. Mirsad Ćeman is he satisfied with the answer to the question? Mr. Ćeman is pleased. I ask Mrs. Seada Palavrić is she a satisfied answer? The lady says she's not happy and she's looking for an opportunity to make a comment. Here you are, Mrs. Palavrić, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8528	I've been waiting a few months for the answer to this question. However, he who answered as if he did not understand me. He gave me information on all relevant commissions, and I am now explaining and precise. I'm looking for information about this, about every budget user, at least using one mark, about the number of employees and their salaries. So also to Parliament, if necessary, the Council of Ministers and ministries and all agencies of the CIA and similar. Because it was quite clear why I was looking for an answer to this question, and my goal was not met.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8529	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. I ask Mr. Mirsad Ćeman is he again satisfied with the answer to this second question he had? Yes, it is. I'm asking Mr. Sead Avdić if he's satisfied with the answer to the question. I'll interpret what Mr. Avdić said about the stenogram. He said he was partially satisfied with the answer, but he's not asking for a comment. I'm asking Mr. Mladen Potočnik if he's satisfied with the answer. He's not happy with the answer, for the record. You're not looking for an intervention for a pay phone, are you? Here you go, Mr. Potočnik. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8530	The Honorable President, an esteemed colleague, I asked the Council of Ministers to respond - when will they give a plan and a work programme to get out of the crisis in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located? This means that we are dealing with things that create that, which create legal frameworks, but we do not have concrete programmes and plans, and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in decline, and we are discussing here. That's why I can't be satisfied with the answer, although I already told Mr. Chairman and Mr. Terzić once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8531	Thank you, Mr. Potočnik. So I'm next. I'll keep my opinion to myself. I'm asking Mrs. Ruža Sopta if she's satisfied with the answer to the set? He's saying it's the right thing to do. I'm asking Mr. Živković if he's happy with the answer. He's looking for a comment. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8532	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am not satisfied with the answer in just one piece. Namely, the conclusion is that the only thing Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have is time and I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina must go as quickly as possible and as soon as possible to go where the money lies. And in Iraq lies $900 million of Bosnian Herzegovina's money, where we need to see how we can take it. We are too late for oil for food, and as far as I can see, the Council of Ministers is also late to join those processes that go to Iraq to restore it, and I don't think even Bosnia and Herzegovina is recognised by Iraq. There's a lot the Bureau can do and go where they owe us, and they owe us $900 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8533	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Duraković is not present. I'm asking Mr. Špirić if he's happy with the answer. He's not happy. He's not asking for a comment, is he? I'm asking Mr. Ćeman if he's satisfied with the additional explanation. Mr. Ćeman is pleased. 26 This way we finished this first part of this agenda. Now let's go to this second part of the agenda. It's asking MP questions. Mr. Sead Avdić answered first. Here you go, Mr. Avdić. You have your word. Get your hands up and let me see how it goes. Here, that's it. I've seen all of you, and then we'll move on. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8534	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected chairman, I think with the duration of agreeing to the two-hour agenda, objectively this House of Representatives announces a kind of crisis of functioning. For this reason, I also asked very uncontrollably at the end of the first part that the Extended College under an emergency session and that it simply considered the emerging situation. In fact, not all things in this house are solved simply by voting and simply voting, either simply by falling or by gaining confidence in their proposals. In this context, I am once again renewing that the Expansive College, respecting what was happening around the alignment of the agenda, if possible in the break ahead of us, simply finds the strength and means to meet and consider the new developments. That's below 1. Under 2. I think these parliamentary questions are losing every sense of their own. Most parliamentary issues are objectively not given a relevant response by the Council of Ministers. So I suggest a completely different concept. I propose that parliamentary issues be simply so created that representatives of the Council of Ministers are there, that a verbal debate be held on every parliamentary issue, and that the parliamentary hour or two hours simply enables the direct transmission of BH television, so that people and citizens of this country can see what it is to end in a transparent manner about the relevant developments and relations of the legislative and executive authorities. So I repeat once again - the Council of Ministers in full composition should be present during parliamentary issues and give a direct answer. Which minister is not ready to answer, simply a parliamentary question, then he simply does not interfere in his business. Which means I am asking, once again, for a live debate on parliamentary issues between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. And below 3. I think this question deserves full attention. I don't think resolutions solve problems in the House of Representatives and in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The extended college may call on the board of the Administrative Commission to review its 27 decision by people and simply to ensure that journalists and media are not the consciousness and conscience of this parliament, but to return it to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8535	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. I'll just, so we'll give you the answers to the questions, just tell you one thing. Maybe someone wants this home to be in crisis. This house isn't in crisis at all. He is working intensively and this is his 15th session, and I hope that even after today's session we will conclude that we have made further progress. Sahat and fifty debates on the agenda are not good. I object first, but I have to enable those who want to lead the debate on the agenda to participate in it and it is ultimately democratic, regardless of what I disagree with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8536	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8537	Mr. Avdić, you said, Mr. Avdić as important as your finding that this house is in crisis, it is so important, and of course, if our voices are equal, so is what I say. Next, Mr Moranjkić came forward on parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8538	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions. I'll try to get them out quick. The first question concerns the work and behavior of our diplomats outside. So there's no moon when some of the information funds don't show up in some of the scandals that make our diplomats out there. One of them robbed the state's money, one of them got drunk, and that's where the police in the city are chasing them, one of them spying on their own state, one of them won't keep the official premises of the state they represent, one of them being renegade from this country, one of them selling personal documents, and one of them being rich, one of them being a fair of this state, is actually making all of them. I'm interested and I'm asking the Council of Ministers for the following -- who and what procedure does he choose and appoint these diplomats? - Who's doing it and how do you control the legal practically over these diplomats? But from Dejton to the day that diplomats have been making scandals and what kind and who protects them, because they're basically protecting themselves, no matter what they're doing, whatever I'm saying? - And what measures against them have been taken and taken so far? That's question number one. 28 Question No. 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8539	Just hurry, it's three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8540	I'm sorry, I'll try. It's known to everyone in Bosnia that billions of dollars are being laundered. Bosnia became a money launderer in the world. You know who does it, about, but not in official places, because it's not official. The price of money laundering, etc. is also known. So it's about billions of dollars. What I'm looking for - what are all the ways of money laundering and amounts in certain ways? What role do foreign and private banks play in these criminal activities, and how are they controlled? - What measures have been taken so far, and what losses have the states had to do with it? And a third question. In order to produce and do what is essential to live in this country, it is sometimes necessary to import something that is not available in this country to buy in order to complete the production process. Let's just say in this country you can't buy a parent flock of coke to produce counters. To go into procedure, you'd better go on an adventure worse than any human mind knows about. You come to the Hajduks by the ministries that rob you in detail and 100% and mock you at the procedure they file. That's beyond reason. Please, I'm asking someone in this country for this and both the OHR and the Bulldozer Commission -- how long will this bureaucracy and these state-run hiduks rob this people for the jobs they're supposed to do in this country and produce and will someone protect these people and on what grounds? Let's say what in Bosnia and Herzegovina costs 1,000 marks for production
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8541	Please, it's been 3 minutes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8542	Just a second, 1,000 marks and several months of work, it costs free in the Republic of Croatia and only 1 day. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8543	Just give me the paper. Look, every question must be in writing. None of them will be processed that doesn't come in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8544	She always came to me. Unfortunately, I also have to say that neither question has ever answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8545	Mr. Moranjkić, you're really right. You deliver questions in writing. Here's the Secretary of the House. Mr. Živković first picked up on this side. Here you go. It's three minutes for questions and written form.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8546	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this Parliament's work, I found that indeed this institution of questions and answers did not go well. I, who was in last term in the National Assembly, it worked a little, much better, but here we all agreed that this would be settled in the Rules of Procedure and hopefully and we look forward to seeing that new Rules of Procedure. Something took a while to get her work done. Also, one of my questions has not even been mentioned here that it is not answered, but that's what I solved with the office. I hope it's on. The next question, given that several citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have addressed me as the largest part of their lives and worked in Croatia, they have moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina and have gained citizenship, they have obtained a condition to retire, but simply the Republic of Croatia does not yet invest in pension funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question, I don't know if the foreign affairs or civil affairs ministry, so I point to both ministries is - Did Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia regulate mutual obligations regarding the exercise of their citizens' pension rights, and if so, and if so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8547	I thank Mr. Živković. Come on, just leave it here for Živković. Madam Secretary, please. On this side, Mr. Bešlagić picked up the next one, right? Here you go. 30 Let him be prepared on this side, who is on this side next after Živković. After Živković Huskić. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8548	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, honored guests, I have one parliamentary question and one initiative. The parliamentary question is – Why has the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Competent Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations so far not responded to an initiative to ban the export of old iron submitted by the initiative committee of iron waste processors and final product producers on 28.3.2003, since the initiative is listed as part of the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production. The thing is, according to the information next year, we're going to be importing old iron because we're not taking care of Malta today. Another initiative – On behalf of 22 thousand pensioners of the municipality of Tuzla, with the support of pension associations of all municipalities of the Tuzlan canton, we call for an emergency joint session of the two homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to discuss the difficult social and material situation of pensioners and to decide and measures to change this situation. This is about pensioners and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I believe that one such session has contributed to resolving these status issues. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8549	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Secretary. On this side is Mr. Huskić, on this side is Mr. Vinko Zorić to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8550	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question that is similar to the previous question, not to the old iron, but to the logs. And on behalf of the Party for BiH, I will ask a question that can be understood as well as a suggestion in some way – free-cutting and exporting troops from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are less familiar with the fact that this area is controlled by a particular lobby throughout the country and that, since fellow Moranjkić mentioned money laundering, that this is being laundered and steamed and I am asking the next question 31 - Why has the Council of Ministers not taken any action on the provisional one, I stress the temporary ban, and if possible, then another more adequate measure of exporting sawmills from Bosnia and Herzegovina? Although it is the government's position of the Federation of BiH, here I have faxes from the previous and current composition. It is also the attitude of Republika Srpska's Chamber of Commerce, as well as associations of citizens from the wood industry and furniture tree BiH. This therefore applies only to a certain type of hull, as the Pilanic facilities are installed in Bosnia and Herzegovina higher than the real needs. And the forest, as a national treasure and environmental resources, continues to be destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8551	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. Mr. Zorić. Who's on this side? No one's answered again. Who on this side is still interesting, interested? We're past Mr. Kunić from downstairs. We're through. Is there anyone else on this side to ask? There isn't. So Mr. Ćeman then Mr. Kunić and that's how we end up with parliamentary issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8552	On behalf of the Demokrščani Coalition Club, I have one parliamentary question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it says - What has been done so far and what is it intended to do to compensate the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have had foreign savings in banks that have been based in Bosnia and Herzegovina? So, it is that all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have raised quite a bit of dust, including those in the Republic of Croatia towards the Ljubljanska Banka, and no one mentions citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have had foreign savings in banks whose head office is in Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is no talk at all about the compensation of these citizens. This is how I encourage the Council of Ministers, as well as all of us in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to discuss it and pass a law that regulates this matter. Bosnia and Herzegovina is regularly serving the debt of the former state, the external debt, and treats its citizens as if they do not have the debt. Here, I hope I finally get an answer to the parliamentary question, because at all times I haven't got an answer yet. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8553	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Ćeman, and let Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself and then we're done with this agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8554	I, like Mr. Bešlagić, have one question and one initiative. The question is: Are they and when, for example? in the last 7 years, I have been taking this period after the Dayton Peace Agreement, authorised representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's and Herzegovina's competent authorities and entities to visit or visit the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are in support of prisons in other countries on any basis? If I do not initiate such visits, including the representative of this parliament, since such persons feel abandoned because of their lack of care as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This, of course, does not mean challenging the decisions of the judicial authorities of other countries, but rather a certain kind of concern for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina while they are on the basis of penalties. On a recent visit to the Republic of Croatia within the framework of a mixed parliamentary delegation and a delegation of NGOs, representatives of some organisations informally informed me that, for example, There are about 100 such cases in the Republic of Croatia, and more or less likely in some other countries. Note - I request a written reply from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Justice Ministry and, of course, it cannot be done without adequate data from the entity ministries of this portfolio. Second, the initiative. These days, before that, a little information. You know that, a roundtable is being organised by two constitutional legal committees of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly on the competencies of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, they can conclude one thing that is generally known, which is that Annex IV of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has not been published so far in the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Official Messenger or any previous one. This fact draws different conclusions as to who it should look like. I hereby urge that it be prepared and published, not only the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina as Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, but possibly a complete peace agreement. Note – to include, if necessary, the relevant working bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and other relevant institutions in the realisation, and it is known, which is also 33, I note that OHR has published the text in English and the languages of the constituent peoples in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8555	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Petar Kunić. Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8556	I would ask one question about Mr. Živković's question, perhaps additionally, and that he who needs to answer it will answer more easily to understand what the problem is. The question is – When will the Convention on the regulation of pension rights for those persons who have achieved one part of the internship in Croatia and one part in Bosnia and Herzegovina be concluded with the Republic of Croatia? In fact, it is a large number of people who are getting older now in entities and entities are paying, so they give pension, significant funds Croatia does not pay in the funds of Bosnia and Herzegovina and loses a significant part of the amount of money. You know that if a worker worked in Germany, then he has the right to participate a part of his pension, so according to years of training he spent in Germany, because the convention of the former Yugoslavia with Germany was concluded. Thus, such a convention should also be concluded with the Republic of Croatia in order not to lose this substantial asset that we are now losing. And there are a lot of damage to the persons who worked in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8557	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Just give it to me. Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić asked for a word for the parliamentary question, the vice-president.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8558	I'm giving up asking questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8559	I thank Deputy Špirić. This is how we concluded the third item of the agenda. 34 We move to the fourth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of Mr Mladen Potočnik to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in BiH The report from the Commission you received from the College. The College has not reached agreement, but the College has agreed to propose to the House that if we so decide to deliver this law to the Council of Ministers for a plea and then return it to procedure or opinion, we return it to the procedure and declare it. We talked to Mr. Potočnik. As far as I know, he agreed to accept something like this. If I'm right, then please support this proposal. Then who's in favor of this proposal? _______(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Yeah. We'll figure that out later. All I'm asking is that we vote. Who's up for this proposal? Count the votes so we know what it is. Everyone's voting to know how many MPs there are in the O.R. Did you count the votes for? Did you count it? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Add another vote for, Mr. Križanović has voted now. Okay. How much is that for? So 28 MPs, 38 were at the beginning of the session, so here. Please, look who's at the first two hours of the session and who's not here later. Let it be seen here. I'm against it. I'll do it in the end. Look, please, nice. At the end of the session, we'll keep a record of who's attending the session. That's what we're gonna do. I'm asking you to back me up on that. We're going to keep that record, and then we're going to avoid the practice of some of them coming here, making a mess around the agenda, taking pictures and then leaving, and doing it, and then when they decide on important points, they're not sitting down.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8561	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8563	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I think this House should be run in business. He works while he has a quorum. I don't see any reason why we're opening up a debate at half-session, who's gone, why he's gone, why he's gone, if we have a quorum to work with. The moment the quorum comes into question, we can see if people have announced their departure or not. But don't make politics out of something there's no need. We have a quorum. We can work and decide. I don't mind there aren't any people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8564	Of course, Mr. Špirić, I didn't say anything against yours. We keep working. I'm not interrupting the session at all, I'm just commenting. I have the right as chairman to comment. I maintain, I take care of order, of presence, of absence and within my powers I speak what I think. He's not even in college with what you said. How much was it for? Against? Abstained? I find that with 28 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, this proposal from the College passed that this law by Mr Potočnik should be sent to the Council of Ministers for opinion, after which it will be returned here to the parliamentary procedure for the next session if we reach the next session. The fifth item of the agenda is Ad. 5. The proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum is about the Law in the second reading. As you know at the 11th session of the House on the proposal of the legislator of the Law, it was postponed because of the need to comply with the new Law on Ministrys and other bodies at first. The Law processor, or the Council of Ministers, has submitted amendments to the Bill Proposal, which we Members of the College have taken as their amendments, because they have been agreed within the Council of Ministers. You've got the amendments. I am now obliged to open a debate on amendments. This law is governed by long, long polemics. We were saving him. I hope we've managed to save him and we've agreed him now and with the Ministry Act at the Council of Ministers. 36 The representatives and the Ministry of Security and Human Rights are present. So they're consensual. It was a transfer of jurisdiction from one ministry to another. I usually open up a debate. If no one answers their word, I'll conclude the debate and suggest it this way. We have 86 amendments. So that we don't raise our hands 86 times, there's a business possibility next, that we decide to vote on all 86 amendments all of a sudden, if someone doesn't have anything against any of the amendments. That's why I'm asking you, so I'm asking you, who is it that we're voting on all 86 amendments all of a sudden? Who's in? So we vote on how we vote, because this is a derogation from the Rules of Procedure. We need to make a statement. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that unanimously with 29 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have decided that we will vote on all 86 amendments. Who is for 86 amendments, as proposed and signed by Minister Čolak and Minister Keba, that is, how did the three of us propose amendments as members of the College? It's a real formulation. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we have adopted 86 amendments unanimously with 31 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. We're moving on to a statement on a law that forms an integral part of these 86 amendments? We don't have any other amendments. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that, unanimously with 31 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have passed the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum. So the original text of these, which passed that commission, with these 86 amendments, without other amendments, the Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum, is good about staying and moving foreigners and asylum in accordance with the amendments. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. That's 37 Ad. Six. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Labour and Employment Agency Act has been received. The Commission has agreed on the same text. The report contains four amendments and I am putting the report to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on a single text of the Labour and Employment Agency Act. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Seven. A report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Plant Health You have also received a Joint Commission Report containing 33 amendments. So a unique text has been agreed with these amendments. I am putting the Commission's report to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes, excuse me, on reaching an agreement on a single text of the Law on Plant Health. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 8. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the criminal procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (by emergency procedure) has given you a proposal for a law on criminal proceedings with the Council of Ministers' request to be considered under Article 105. It is a request on a provisional, temporary basis declared by the High Representative. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. Who's to accept the procedure under article 105? Who's that? Please, did you count the votes? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So we've accepted this procedure. Should we go after the entities, Branka? You don't have to. 38 We are going to declare the law. Who's up for the law? Branka, take this. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you very much. So here's the deal. In both the first and second cases, the results are the same. 30 voted for, of the 30 present, 27 voted for, one against, two abstentions. 27.1 versus, 2 abstentions. And for the procedure and for the law. There's an entity majority in this. If we have to, is there any need to vote enthusiastically? You don't have to. All right. I declare that we have passed the Code of Criminal Procedure. We're going to the 9th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Nine. The Council of Ministers' request to consider Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for a criminal law under emergency procedure is also at issue by a law declared by the High Representative. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to procedure. Who is it to be an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you, too. 30 present 27 for, 1 versus, 1 abstention. So there's both general and entity. Is there a need for an ethnic? There isn't. All right. We're going to make a statement on the law. Who's up for the law? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? Who's being held back? Thank you very much. Just to check Republika Srpska, I apologize. Let's see. Republika Srpska who's in favour? Let's see. The Federation's safe. Who's in favour of Republika Srpska? So 2,4.6. There is, so that's what I wanted, 7. You weren't Munibe. You can join in later. Six, then. There's a lot of them. So here's the deal. 30 votes to 27, 30 votes to 27 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. So I find that, here, there is no need to verify the entity's majority, because there is an entity majority in this issue, we also passed the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 39 We move to the 10th agenda. Ad. Ten. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of witnesses under threat and threatened witnesses has been declared by the High Representative. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. Who's to accept emergency procedures? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 30 present, 30 for. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So unanimity is an emergency procedure. Who's up for the law? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that unanimously with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we passed the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 11. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial police pursuant to Article 105. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in favor of emergency procedures? Thank you very much. Who's against this procedure? - 1 Who Is Restraint? So I figure we're 29 votes away, right? Ivo, how many votes are there? 29 votes in favour, 1 vote against, without abstentions, adopted an emergency procedure under Article 105. Who's up for the law? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? Are there any abstentions? I find that with 29 votes in favour, with no abstentions and 1 vote against, by ensuring both the general and the entity parliamentary majority, we passed the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police. So then comes the 11 points of the agenda, comes 12 points of the agenda, it's 40 Ads. 12. The request of the Council of Ministers for reviewing the Proposal for a Transitional Law on the Mergering of Customs Administrations and the establishment of a Directorate for Direct Taxation under the Emergency Procedure We have another 5 minutes to work until the break, or to take a break immediately. We'll continue at 14 o'clock with work. Paused until 14, exactly at 14. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8565	I'm at your disposal if you think you need this information today, available right now to show you the things that are going on, or to leave it for the next session, and let's get on with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8566	Thank you, Chairman, for taking care of it. You of course respect the fact that you have to go on a trip, to official duties at 15. So I think we're going to be able to keep this statement of yours in mind when we get to that point of the agenda and I hope that we can then move that debate to the next session. But when we get to that part of the agenda, just for the very reason you're talking about, because you're absent from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then we'll have that information at the next session. Do you agree with your colleagues on this? There's a Mr. Špirić intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8567	Ladies and gentlemen, we've established the agenda and I think the Council of Ministers can agree that someone on behalf of the chairman that this information exists. There's a Minister of Transport and Communications. There is, one of the ministers can be authorised to inform Parliament that he can do this. So we did not insist that the chairman of the Council of Ministers inform Parliament, but the Council of Ministers in agreement. And that's why I think we should wait for the agenda to stick to the agenda so we don't open the debate by respecting the duties of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8568	Here you go, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has a word. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8569	So the activities around this initiative were led by two men in the Council of Ministers. Minister Dokić, as Minister of Transport and Communications, and myself as chairman of the Council of Ministers and chair of the co-ordination body for the implementation of this project. So the two of us are at the top of the line on this information and we're both going to... So Minister Dokić is not at the meeting today either. I would then suggest that Parliament terminate its work at that session and, yes, at that point and that we continue this one if I think it is okay to inform this Parliament. I'm sorry it's so fast. We certainly wanted to send that information, but as usual, Dr. A Lagumdžija very quickly, and then he's gone when he needs to hear that information. Here's your decision, and believe it's not up to the Council of Ministers, and I don't think any of the members of the Council of Ministers could in this particular case provide you with more quality information than Minister Dokić and myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8570	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Terzić. So here's the deal. Mr. Špirić intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8571	Ladies and gentlemen, the moment we adopt the agenda, it's not the Zlatko Lagumžij agenda, it's Parliament. And I think we all pleaded that we wanted to get information. Woe to the state, therefore, to a state in which the 3.5 billion-dollar project has no written trace so far, in which, what if the car were to be run down by two people who negotiate not God. How the Council of Ministers does it on important state projects. And that is why I think it has the right for Parliament to seek information that there is always a written trail from initiative to realization. And I don't mean, I don't call on the really chairperson of the Council of Ministers to replicate, I don't mean to diminish the importance of the visit, but to draw attention to what is called a developmental state project and that every time an MP asks for the information of the Council of Ministers must be in a position to give a written lead. And not the oral answer, I've been working, I've been negotiating, you know, maybe change this, maybe change that. I guess there are notes for all of them, there are services that, based on these notes, can make a promotion that is sufficient for MPs to be informed and take a stand. And there's really no need to compromise. We can only conclude that the Council of Ministers is unable to meet this item of the agenda for this and that. Please, nice. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8572	The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8573	The first time we speak, difficult to the state when the Council of Ministers behaves like this, I absolutely agree with Mr Špirić, who is now speaking from the position of MPs. But this country also held out to the Council of Ministers in which he was sitting and who did not move his finger to realize such an important Corridor Vc. The only Council of Ministers that has done anything about this corridor, the realization of Corridor Vc, is this council of ministers, and don't forget, Mr Špirić, that it happened at yesterday's session. And if you think that written information to Parliament can come within less than 24 hours, then you would come back into the situation again to talk with your demagogue phrases about how the Council of Ministers values MPs, how it wants you to write something that, why you haven't had a chance to respond, etc. etc. So, I ask you nicely, I am at my disposal, given that I have obligations that the Presidency has committed me to, not by my own free will, I am at my disposal to submit oral information to you now, because that is how you asked for it, and the Council of Ministers has not thought to communicate orally with Parliament, and we intend and we will. This is such an important project that it must be absolutely transparent and must receive support from all including the Parliamentary Assembly, including all MPs who have been in the Council of Ministers since the Dayton Agreement to date.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8574	Thank you. Mr. Špirić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8575	I'm in my story, and it seems to me that we're not in the process. Woe to a country where the Prime Minister talks to the co-chairman of the Parliament in this way. So we're looking for a agenda point and we're putting in and we're looking for an answer. What are the obligations of the Council of Ministers, let them be adapted. I beg you, you say yesterday there was no written trace. For you, all demagogue is what you're asked to do. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, let Parliament. You see, there's anything more logical than Parliament asking its Council of Ministers without being irritated. You will go on a journey there is no need to be upset, because I think you will be on the road to predetermining what Parliament is looking for. Why are you nervous now? Why do you teach us a lesson at a time when you need to respond to Parliament's request? But you must learn that this Parliament chose you, not you. When you realize that dynamic and understand it, it'll be easier to have a dialogue here. I think you've been acting, don't be angry, but if you want to be a kid on a tut. That's the way to talk. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8576	No, Nikola, it doesn't make senseNikola I mean. It really doesn't. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8577	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8578	We're finishing the debate. I'm on my way, please. I'm on the 12th point of the agenda. After that, as a gesture of goodwill, please, as a gesture of goodwill chaired by the Council of Ministers, who is scheduled to be at the Airport at 3:00 p.m. to travel to the international obligation on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has offered to give us the information we requested this morning. We say that we continue our work on this agenda point, when we arrive at this item of the agenda, we will not have a chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers or Ministers, but we will have the information that, that is, the fact that the Prime Minister-in-Office had the will to now, while at the available capacity to do so, and we will then make the right decision. We'll probably be looking for information for the next session. So we'll do, we don't have to get it all together today. I wouldn't open any controversy any further. Thank you to the chairman, I appreciate your gesture as a gesture of attention to Parliament. So you didn't make up your mind, as soon as you heard about it, you came to Parliament and offered yourself. The second thing right now is that Parliament here resonates in the way it resonates, but the right to tell you we are already at the point of the agenda, the important point of the agenda, so when we get to this point, we will make the right decision. Thank you very much. We interrupt this controversy. We're going back to work. The 12th is the agenda on Wednesday. Therefore, the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration by emergency procedure. Please, nice. The Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure. In connection with this law, you have also received a joint letter from the chairman of the Commission for indirect taxation of the finance and vault ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Among other things, the letter states that this bill is a product of consensus reached within the Commission on indirect taxation policies, which are members of state and entity finance ministers, as well as a consensus within the Council of Ministers adopted by the law on 12 June 2003. So the final result reflects the common position reached by the members of the Commission and the Council of Ministers. 44 The letter also lists expectations that the Law in Parliament will be adopted by 1 July. This therefore tells us that it is a requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with the procedure of this emergency under Article 105. In preparation for this agenda, we held a joint session of the two counterparts of the Parlmaentar Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Council of Ministers and representatives of the international community. Last night, we had a broad discussion at an extended college on this subject. So much for the opening part. I call on a representative of the Council of Ministers if he considers it necessary to address Parliament. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8579	Before the minister gives, I just want to make it clear that you've been corrected today by the 11th member's first position. Given that we had a Council of Ministers meeting yesterday to determine the minutes, compared to the stenogram, we came to the conclusion that the Administrative Commission in the first place dropped the precise determination that entities are dealing with, in fact, with the customs administrations of entities, so that yesterday in the minutes, in determining the record, we corrected that error and so today you have the text which is an integral part of the Law that you received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8580	Thank you, Chairman. Minister of Finance and Treasury at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mrs. Ljerka Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8581	The Honorable Chairman, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, has already said that on behalf of the Commission for indirect taxation, Mr Đoli Dikson and I have addressed this esteemed assembly in a way that we are asking Parliament to respect all that is written in the letter and to support this transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. I am now not going to interpret these short 13 articles, but I would like to read the explanation of the proposed legal solutions. So we think there's a legal foothold to propose a law like this. We believe that in the new Law on Ministrys within the Council of Ministers, there is a foothold within the scope of the relevantness that such a law would be proposed and this law means establishing a single customs administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina consisting of the customs administrations of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Customs Service of the Brcko District. Customs administration is established as an administrative organisation, an independent special and what is now very important means it is independent of all these other organisations, i.e. institutions. 45 According to the proposed legal decisions, the Director, the Director who elects the Commission, means the Commission for indirect taxation. It is named by the Council of Ministers, which is also very important, in accordance with the existing Law on Ministerial Names. Article 5 of this Act lays down the rights and responsibilities of this Director, and Article 6 states that the administration is obliged to regularly submit a report to the Council of Ministers on the activities of this Administration. It is found that this director, who will be appointed under this law, is also required to report regularly to the entity finance ministries, and thus also to the entity government on this and the mayor of Brcko District on the exercise of his rights and obligations under this law. So everything he does, he's bound to report the above. According to Article 8, there is a transitional board of directors, the composition of its committee, which would now be a continuation of the Commission's work on indirect taxation and which was established by the High Representative's decision on 1 March this year. Article 11 says what was somewhat controversial. I don't think that was really controversial. So we said in the first article that these are the three existing administrations that are now becoming a single administration and that this new administration is just using movable and immovable assets of earlier, present still customs administrations. So they're not taking over the property, they're putting themselves on the line for use. And so as far as this is concerned, when the law comes into force, it was one remark that it should be published, not only in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the messages of the entity, or Brcko District. The last position says – the financial resources needed to implement this law really require certain financial resources, and if God is in the rebalancing process that we are going to adopt very quickly there will be a certain amount that is needed for this by the end of the year, the short functioning of this director, i.e. this administration, and by the year this funding will probably be different. So I ask you to consider the letter, consider the meaning of this law. As the first step that should ultimately lead to the merger of customs administrations, the unification of customs administrations, that is to say, the integration of economic space in the country that we all need to establish is not unique and that there is a major obstacle and investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. on communication within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Besides, this law is a condition for many more things. We promised him when we made a memorandum with the European Commission, when we talked about this current stand-by. So in all these documents, Bosnia and Herzegovina has defined that it means it will meet this obligation in a way that we want to become an integral part of the EU for a while, and 46 this would mean one condition for us to have a single administration, i.e. a single economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8582	Thank you too, Mrs. Marić, Minister of Finance. I'm opening a debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Who wants to talk? Here you go. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8583	Fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will try not to fall into the trap of debate on members of the Law since there is a requirement here to discuss the law under Article 105, i.e. that we should practically determine the procedure today. But it is also a fact that the determination of this procedure is also the conclusion of the debate on the law, so it is the practical adoption of the law. Because of the fact that I don't go out here a few times now, I'm going to try to actually say in a few sentences what I think about the procedure itself, and yet, of course, try not to get into a debate about the members of the law, but also to say something about this law. First of all, it's obvious that today we had in this session on agenda 8, these six legal projects. Of these 6 legal projects, 4 were imposed by the High Representative without debate in this home. So we haven't even had a chance to discuss them here. One of us has a chance, it's this one we're going to discuss whether or not we're going to discuss, and one was, one went through this whole legal procedure, that's this asylum law. I suppose that speaks for itself enough about the position of us MPs here and respect, above all, respecting our MPs. I don't need it right now, and I'm not going to repeat a story that probably all of us here can tell. Of course, even representatives of the international community, above all, the High Representative can say that we do not adopt laws, so he must impose them. But then he has to answer the question why does he force those who haven't even been in the debate? This law is a transitional law, so now I'm going to say a few words about it. The transitional law, and if we look at it, should not cause any particular controversy and any particular problems. But we need to figure out a few things here. First of all, the constitutional basis for this law is very controversial. Secondly, that this is about the transfer of jurisdiction in one part, so in part of the fiscal sphere, that it is about the transfer of jurisdiction and that such transfer of competence should allow us, or that this debate here should be made possible, should we respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you know who can transfer jurisdiction on behalf of the entity. These are, of course, the congregations, or parliaments of the entities. And here we have, in principle, the biggest remarks and actually there are our biggest suggestions when it comes to this 47 law, that is, a law that will be passed and we hope to be able to discuss, which is the framework law that follows in the next period. First of all, our demands will be directed in the direction means first and it is essential that we discuss this law and be in the process. Whether it will be shortened or not, but in any case, a parliamentary debate is under way. Secondly, to use the principle of consumption, the ultimate consumption that is for us, means what will be of great importance to us and what we will insist on. Then the decision on regional units, whether it concerns tax administrations or customs administrations, takes into account, therefore, that it cannot be the authority of the director, because it is not only professional, but also a political issue, so it must be, if anything at least confirmed by the board of directors who will not then be transitional, but it will be a real board of directors. It is also that, given the problem of the allocation of funds that will arise when forming or making a decision on regional units to take care of entity borders, because only such a part of the funds can go into budgets, so entities, and nothing is disputed. We will also ask and insist that since it is about the transfer of competences that I spoke about earlier, those who need to be made known, and these are entity congregations, and thus enables us to fully discuss these laws. I am asking that what I have just said, therefore, be an integral part of the minutes within the meaning of our recommendations to the Commission, so it is recommended that this be taken into account by the Commission in the making of these laws and in this variant, given the meaning that this is a transitional law and that we will have the opportunity to influence the SDS Club will support both the procedure and this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8584	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Sead Avdić came forward for his word. Here you go. Let him prepare himself for who's next. Mrs. Špirić Nikola, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8585	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests of the Council of Ministers, I can, on behalf of a mixed club, stress the satisfaction that we have this proposal of a law on indirect taxation, even if it is a transitional character. It is the first legislative project that concerns and relates to the reintegration of economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina and is therefore simply worth the attention and value of voting both in accordance with Article 105 and simply adopting this transitional law. The framework law will be the law that fully creates, models and defines simply in the general administration for indirect taxation and the whole of simply indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let me just, in short, simply give two suggestions 48 that would be necessary to install into this framework law, by the way, that we won't have the opportunity to simply make this draft law that would be good to be a draft, we simply influence it and simply intervene in part. So I only have two suggestions, and this is Article 8 predicts that the Management Board for Management of this means the indirect taxation administration objectively has representatives of the entity finance ministries of BiH, the finance ministry and the Council of Ministers, plus says 4 persons and the chairman of the Commission for Indirect Tax Policy. I think it would be good to keep this trend for that administration to be separated from the Council of Ministers and that simply the Council of Ministers has no conditionalally spoken control or as a whole to manage the administration. That is why the Management Board of this administration is being formed, and in this context it would be good to consider what is the structure of the Management Board which will manage this administration in the sense that it will be fully independent with its full dignity, responsibilities and obligations and towards entities, according to Brcko District, i.e. towards Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. It's the only way to keep this administration from simply going through some of its wrong flows, not becoming a couple of state bodies that are substituting some kind of Council of Ministers, etc. And a member of the 11th should also be decomposed. Believe in different salaries, benefits will divide people in this administration even if it is a transitional character and will create problems in functioning during this transitional period. It would be necessary and good, and even during this transitional period, to enable the same status of people simply in the whole of the indirect taxation administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8586	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Špirić. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself. After that, you, Mr. Ceman, insist, will get your word. You'll get it, you'll all get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8587	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I have been thinking after these discussions that we have held today, whether it is worth reporting for the word and acting as an MP at all. I was thinking whether what we're doing might be a great punishment for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I belong to that category of people who think that the fight for the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be followed by a struggle to preserve the achieved degree of development of democratic relations, Parliament's right and the right of MPs. I am convinced that the way this parliament works is that I mildly say punishment for these citizens and for this country. This is the only Parliament in Europe and in the world where MPs, Parliament has no right to discuss what is the basic task of Parliament, which is taxes and tax policy. Find me a country in the world where MPs are forbidden to discuss it 49 or to offer them a procedure to take or leave, I will withdraw from parliamentary life. There's no such state. We make a major contribution to building this country on principles where an MP has no right to decide what should essentially be a parliamentary job. That's why you see what Parliament is all about. In the debate on resolutions, on declarations, on whether the salaries were increased, the salaries were reduced. What is the fundamental role of Parliament legislative? Where are we in the legislative role? Today, we passed laws under Article 105. We now have a law under Article 105, and it has become not rare, but a practice for this parliament to adopt the laws take or leave. I don't think that's good. That much serviability wouldn't even show small children. So I can respect that it's an exception, but that in one state parliament it becomes a rule I can't understand. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we have the strength and capacity to attack and burn political issues in this country and solve them in the interests of the state and the citizens. I don't think those who send messages that we don't have that capacity are doing a good job. I'm disappointed in the letters I got. I consider the letter handed by the High Representative only to MPs from Republika Srpska a letter of territorial segregation. They are not from Republika Srpska MPs who do not understand anything, who do not understand the need for reform, whom someone can indirectly order to vote for or against. And so I beg you, so I ask those who write those letters that they don't need that. The way the OHR works and the Council of Ministers, that, under Article 105, we adopt all laws without making a difference between who is for reform, who is against reform. We're offered a policy to get us all through the same mud, so how to tell the people what the difference is. Is this a repeat Bolshevik concept? Can anyone have their say about any law? But we have another problem. So I'm talking about procedure. I'm sorry it's like that. I don't think it's good, I don't think they should warn us territorially, because I don't know what the attitudes of the National Assembly are. I am a representative of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to make good laws. But if the OHR has problems with the National Assembly of Republika Srpska or with anyone within the National Assembly, let them sit down and talk. I wanted to make a contribution today and I'm going to contribute to the law. But if everyone who sent the letter is convinced that they forced me to, it's not some willing moment, it doesn't even open a nice picture of the law that we need to pass. So I said what I thought about the procedure and I regret that we accepted that this is how the state Parliament works. As a matter of fact, I know that the commission that worked on this job had a difficult task because there had to be a compromise where normal people wouldn't ask for compromise and we got something and it wasn't the law. It's a transitional law. Then people tell us it's so important that you have to adopt until July 1st, and then when they explain it to us, it says it doesn't matter. You will adopt a framework law that is important. Now I don't know if it matters or whether it doesn't matter. If it is irrelevant, it could be regulated by the Council of Ministers' decision and that would make sense. Because this all that regulates this law could be defined by one too many decisions, and the framework law would be a law that we would discuss for 50 if it were to be two months 3 months, but that once this state would function, that it would breathe, that we would know why we voted and what we had made. I'll tell you why this law, in my opinion, didn't achieve the goal I expected of this transitional law. This is a law that determines things in principle, but which is contradictory. In Article 3(2), it says – the administration has the property of a legal person and the authority to employ staff and to obtain, acquire and use movable and immovable property and to participate in legal proceedings. Therefore, it employs, the property of the workers, deals with the bill on salaries, etc. Then. Because I don't know right now whether we've got a law on merger management, so one administration or we've got a collection of administrations. So now those who negotiate with the international community can tell their voters, so nothing happened. It's all the same. So it didn't come to anything. So then in Article 11, says -- employees of the former entity customs administrations and formerly the customs services of the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to be subject to the laws on the working relations of entities and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the laws governing salaries and benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing here? We make hate among workers of the same state service, so those who work in Banja Luka will have 400 marks, those who work in Sarajevo and Mostar 1,200, 1,300 marks. Is there really a state organ being created here and whether that step we want is done? Except if they're faking, so they're formal for reform, and the others aren't. And the third thing and my remark. How is it possible that everyone is seeking some authority over what is called the customs administration and the forced administration, and that the state parliament that only has the right doesn't ask for anything. They're looking for entities. Everyone's looking. We're the only ones who don't have rights. There's no need for anyone to inform us. So it doesn't inform us. I'm not happy that the law is like this, but I'm telling the public because the expert group made a decision by consensus, because the Council of Ministers made a decision by consensus and sent us these logs, pardon the records, I apologize, to the law, because the National Assembly of Republika Srpska shouldn't have said or smelled whether or not she said anything, so I have no other reason not to be told that I'm making an obstruction, but I also support this law. But, please nice, the only thing that pleases me is the address of the High Representative who warned us there are the unfortunates of Republika Srpska and said please only now, what with a good prostitute, and then it will be as you say. It won't be under that procedure anymore, and you can say what you think about it. I kindly ask all those of us to let us, in the interest of this state, say what we think about the law with the intention of improving the law, not fighting the law. Let's really show that we're MPs, and if we weren't, don't be angry, I'm not insulting anyone, I'm thinking of myself, we're not, we're not dealing with prostitution, we're doing serious state work. So we don't have many ways today. This is the international community of justice and myself. And one more thing, those who count with this parliament, when they form commissions, whether they are international or domestic, must study the Rules of Procedure of this assembly in which 51 we have sworn to apply it, so when they say it must be July 1st, then they must know that they must deliver the material to us on April 1st, so that we too can say something about the laws. This way, I don't think we've had a chance, we've had any memories, we've had opportunities, I don't think we've sent a message from the High Representative to the negotiators to either Europe or Thessaloniki. Everyone's gonna justify some of the money and pay they made on this. We didn't get what I think we should at this point. So hopefully, like everyone else, because here I see that no one's talking about this law today, but about the framework, I don't know what it's going to be about. So, hoping that we can talk about framework law, submit amendments and pass a good law, here's my suggestion to swallow this today, so as whose stomach goes through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8588	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Petar Kunić came to the floor. After that, Beriz Belkić, Jozo Križanović or Jozo Križanović and Beriz Belkić, agree on whatever you want. I saw you both at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8589	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I really cannot help but express my agreement with Professor Špirić. So, of course, we have already talked about these issues before, so when laws are passed, especially when laws are passed that are very important for the creation of one community, then at the very least we would have to go through a debate, a debate in Parliament. Unfortunately, the adoption of laws in the Bosnia and Herzegovina parliament has become a habit of only giving Parlmanet the legality and legitimacy of the law. Parliament does not decide on the scale of what is worrying. If the High Representative has expressed his conviction, or realized that he will no longer insist on law-making in this way, then I welcome it and hope that he will stick to his words, because it does seem humiliating not only to us MPs, but also to this Parliament to be a passing station of something important to be decided by a commission. Please, is this commission expert? I would say, in the light of the content aspect, that the formal aspect of this law is not really professional, that it is really not professional. This doesn't look like the law. Of course, of course, I, like my colleague Špirić, will not be an obstacle to the adoption of this law, and I will vote for this law, but I say for the last time that I accept the law in this Parliament to bring it to this shortened procedure, so by Article 105. Of course, hoping, therefore, having the belief that we will have the opportunity to discuss the law on indirect taxation in, of its essence, the measure of things. And believing that, given the fact that this is a particularly important law, we in these areas have great experience with such a law. We know that these are one of the main reasons why the state fell apart, for these reasons, we remember the syntagma in Croatia in Slovenia, Slovenia is being built for Belgrade. What was I gonna say? I wanted to say that the incomes that are collected 52 must be controlled, must be transparent and must belong to whoever created them. It's a basic postullar. It's a law coming up that must differentiate. And I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it and make comments, that is, our proposals. That's one of the basic reasons. What is the substance of this law? What's he like? You see, we have some things that are absurd here. Let's say in Article 4. – The management has a director elected by the Commission for indirect tax policy and appointed the Council of Ministers. How now? He chooses, someone who chooses is chosen. Someone who's named this guy is named. You can't choose and name. Either you choose or you appoint. One complaint addressed to the Council of Ministers for more profiling these laws and legally reviewing them. Not to mention his nomotechnical aspect. Article 5 – Director....specially responsible for the following other responsibilities for which he is in charge of the law. So please, what's that? Director management and resource orientation and management work. Will the director direct the funds? Here it cannot be drawn a crystal clear conclusion, etc. I hope that the upcoming law will settle this in a better way, or more decadent. It was about the control of an administrative organization. In fact, it's not customary for the customs administration to be a administrative organization. Management organisations are mainly professional organisations that do not have a strong position in the financial aspect. We're running one completely different situation. Of course, that is not possible, Mr Avdić spoke about this issue, that it is not possible to extract administrative organisation under the authority of the Council of Ministers. There's got to be someone in control. In this case, it's absolutely the Council of Ministers. Because too much would be given to a management organisation whose status doesn't deserve it in legal systems. And in the end, by handling the fact that existing barriers are removed in the law for the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to create one more effective system of functioning, collecting indirect revenues, and to eliminate, I hope, eliminate all these things that are happening in customs administrations, so I declare myself to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8590	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8591	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I'm a little confused, to tell you right after last night's meeting of the Expansive College and the step-up of the club chiefs who are very willing to say they're going to swallow this bill. The BiH party will stay with what we said last night. But I can't miss to say next. Ms. Marić, Ms. Minister and part of an expert team 53 who attended a session of the Extended College in the context of this project pointed out the following – the content of what has the ambition to be called by law is the result of a political compromise, not expert solutions. Who made the political compromise? The representatives of the people and the entities say. I don't know if we're in a relationship right now with people and entities, etc. There may be some interruptions. So when it comes to content, we are clearly told that this is the compromise of the representatives of entities and peoples, or members of the commission coming from entities and from all peoples of the constituent peoples. As far as content is concerned. When it comes to the position of MPs, the humiliating position, very often I use everyone here, and I suggest we think a little bit about why we're in that position. Is it just because of Pedi Eždaun? Is it because of the Council of Ministers' relationship? Or for us? It's very simple. Without these initiatives, we would not have legally brought any project that would have gone towards the establishment of the normal functions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8592	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word has Mr. Križanović, so we'll move on slowly. Mrs. Palavrić came forward before that. Let him prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8593	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8594	Attention, please. Let's listen to what our colleague is telling us at the pay phone. A little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8595	Dear members of the Council of Ministers, first of all, I would like to say that I am fully aware of the importance and urgency of passing this law and as far as I am concerned and our club, we believe that it is a few years late. I would briefly like to join those colleagues who have been talking about, I don't already know which way to bring this home into a situation that puts hot Council of Ministers legal proposals in the shortest procedure for adoption into this home. I would like to remind you that it is our Parliament's task to adopt good laws, but even though it has a control function to carry out these tasks. After so many remarks on the quality of this law, its clarity, I don't know how we're going to behave in the future when we're looking for a possible control of the implementation of these legal provisions. I am deeply convinced, based on the practice so far, that we will be in the future, no matter how much we talk today about how we feel when we are brought before the final act and in the future we will be in such a position to adopt a series of laws in the shortest procedure. And now it's time to ask ourselves why, why is that? 54 I said yesterday at an extended college in the presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers that I am deeply appalled that this is because we, the domestic authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are not managing the reform process. This is a finding that may also deserve a broader debate, but I am deeply convinced that we still do not have this programme for economic reform management today. Here's just two facts. We don't know until today if the Council of Ministers has a plan of work for this year. Another information, today the 15th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly is held, just as the Council of Ministers held a session on the day before yesterday. So we will be happy that for every Council of Ministers session, we will get more of the material that we will have to swallow here. I think there are reasons for this dissatisfaction that we've been put in a position, and deeply aware that we need reforms and that we want them here to contribute to their implementation, we need to swallow what we're swallowing. So despite what we've been saying, we're deeply aware of the needs of this law, and we're going to, who knows which times to support its adoption. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8596	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mrs. Sead Palavrić. Let the gentleman prepare himself, who is earlier, wait a minute, Selim reports from earlier, much earlier, Mr. Selim Bešlagić, and then we will move on to this side. There's a man reporting, I'm following that, along with Joz, but I'm not responsible for this, because you don't respect what the Rules of Procedure is and what I've asked for several times. I can't ask you every time to write a brother's application for discussion, so orderly. Then I don't have a problem, neither do you. But here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8597	Thank you very much. I will tell you, on behalf of the SDA Club, in a similar way, that Mr Belkić did so, that last night, we, too, pointed to the lack of the text of the law in the presence of representatives of OHR and Mr Eždaun himself and the president of this commission, pointed to the lack of the text of the law, especially those pointed out here by Mr Kunić. At the same time, we have indicated that the shortcomings that the law itself contains can indeed lead to problems in application. However, I honestly told you I was angry at the Council of Ministers which at least some of the things that were possible as legal technical removal, which did not remove them. But when I found out that this is a packed package and don't give 55 Gods to open the bottle, then there could be anything, then I understood the Council of Ministers and said – it's better, it's better than we don't even have this transitional law. We must be aware of what this law means for Bosnia and Herzegovina now that it is in the phase of a feasibility study. We need to be aware of the fact that we are being overrun by all countries in the region. One Albania, which I respect, which has never been able to, as our people would say or call on Bosnia and Herzegovina, is now moving faster and better towards the EU. And we in the SDA Party as MPs in this House would really not be able to endure the criticism of the people we represent here unless we would support such a law being passed within the deadlines that they have given. So respecting everything that was heard, all the shortcomings, and also supporting what Mr. Belkić said, did we ourselves contribute to the situation in which we found ourselves, that we get proposals from laws that we can't really influence. Is it up to us to change? I think so. So we have all the tools and weapons in our hands to start proposing laws and the Council of Ministers to start proposing them, not the transitional commissions, and I don't know who is who. With that in the name of the SDA Club, I support the procedure under Article 105, which means that we will support the text of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8598	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself. After that, Mr Miloš Jovanović. After that, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. After that, Mr. Gligorić. Please. The way I saw it here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8599	She didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8600	Maybe Azra did I see it right, but I thought I saw it that way, but I said I'm not responsible, you're filing for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8601	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, I am only today, after this session, clear why our MPs are, in fact, the most involved in the first item of the agenda – the adoption of the agenda, because it is the only process in which MPs can speak, without this article 105, in which here are their views and opinions. 56 I think that this can sum up precisely from all these discussions, because this Parliament really is not because of individuals, not because of the president and the presidency, but because of the general relations with this Parliament, the Government, and perhaps for yourselves, now take what you want, put us in a position to adopt 9 points in half an hour, of which 4 laws, very important, judicial, judicial, judicial, etc. And that now on this law called the Customs Unification Act, here we have the right to speak, but under the same conditions again. You know why he's on the same terms again? Who we are democratically given to discuss this, but if not by July 1st, as said here on July 1st, the High Representative will make a decision and we will again at the next session by emergency procedure. Let's figure out one thing that we can ask the Council of Ministers to give us future, as well as the international community in the future, laws as it is by procedure, at least 30 days before we meet. That's below 1. I'd like to ask the chairman, because I've got one material, so I don't want to take a critical look at it today, the program of the work of this assembly, in which it says exactly by the months that we're going to pass the laws. Let's do that analysis and therefore express either the need or the request for services or the Government to deliver these laws to us in the procedure, the regular procedure. So, if that doesn't work out, I'll do that analysis myself next time, figure out what we did, and you'll see that at this point we've only brought in what the High Representative is, honoring the exceptions to certain laws, brought in and we just carried out the verification. Gentlemen, gentlemen of the government, let's take this seriously, because we're not seriously acting on the citizens who chose us. One more thing. I like it for the first time today, the honor again, that is, the dishonest exceptions we speak as MEPs of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's start talking about the laws as state laws, and leave the entities to the authorities and the government to agree with the entity authorities. I think that's how we're going to contribute to the laws needed for this Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Jozo said that we will support this law and the consequences of all these shortcomings, and I believe we will have the opportunity to talk about that roof law where we can correct what we might miss today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8602	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Živković Milorad. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself. I think I counted it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8603	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with most of the MPs who said that the exception to law-making is 105. The Rules of Procedure have become a daily activity here if it were no longer an exception and would again return to those documents the Council of Ministers brought here for the first time when they mentioned responsibility on one page 10 times. The responsibility they then mentioned is constantly passed on to someone else. 57 The Council of Ministers in this case is nothing more than a courier between the OHR and this parliament and all responsibility falls on this parliament at all times. We did not participate in the preparation of this law, we did not participate in the ability of its change, we got it healthy for almost per principle take or leave. But all responsibility in the people and even the entity parliaments have been transferred to this Parliament and to these MPs. I believe that this is inadmissible and that this should not be a practice because of the dignity of both this Parliament and these MPs. I wouldn't go into the specific details of this document, because then we'd only come to a debate where there would be a lot of replicas, and we couldn't change anything, because that's the way to make it. I consider this actually just one piece of information from the Council of Ministers, I'll vote for information. I will not vote in favour of the law, especially because the transitional law and in our Rules of Procedure did not state as an opportunity to vote it, so we can at least change the name of the law on temporary merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. Because there's really no transitional law in either the nomenclature or the Constitution, or the Rules of Procedure, or anywhere. _________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] I'm not talking about mentioning and saying justifiable concern knowing us as well as the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the common register implies and most of all resembles a common pot, and that was always a Bosnian pot, where someone takes the meat, and the other one comes to say "burania and cabbage" and all that. I really don't want to talk about it. I hope, I hope, that we will come to the possibility that this framework law, as the mother says it here, comes into this procedure in a regular manner and we will talk about it and discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8605	Thank you, too. Mr. Jovanović. Let's get Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8606	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, and I would agree with colleagues who spoke ahead, Mr Špirić, Kunić and Bešlagić about the way the law was passed, but I am on condition that they voted differently, if they had voted against such means, then I would agree with them. But since they voted against the story they were telling, uh, then I think it says something else. You see, it's a real shame, but to say shame, primarily for lawyers, that we adopt the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law without a single word. So it's a shame for the lawyers at the Council of Ministers and here are fellow lawyers who, as far as I know, 58 have plenty. But you'll see when it hits us on the head, and it hits us, then we'll just say what we did. And whoever has read this law a little bit will see who protects and defends the interests of Republika Srpska will be punished by law from 1 to 10 years old. And if you want me to tell you what member he's in, I'll tell you what member he's writing in. What's on the agenda now, if, I'm going to say, primarily about the merger of customs duties, if the merger of customs will increase revenues in the budgets and entities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I accept what they say I'm raising both hands. If anyone can prove it to me. But I'm afraid, I'm afraid it won't be. I'm in a position almost every day when I'm in Zvornik to cross the state border, so I'm being examined by customs officers, then a state border officer, on the other side too. What happens now and what happens now? Whether only changing the customsman's blouse will not be written on, or not wearing the coat of arms of the Republika Srpska, with the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina or really changing something fundamentally. I don't think so. Because much will now be easier to negotiate at the customs crossing and that police officer from the State Border Service, because it will probably be now again, means customs multiethnic, as well as the State Border Service, so it's kind of different now if there are two Serbs or two Bosniaks, it'll be easier to agree to get something through, to get something through, than it has been so far. And wrestling, I think. I may have gotten a little bit on Zvornik, since there are some Croats, there are more Bosniaks and Serbs when I cross over. Okay. If I came back, I'd say again to this law and I'd like to ask you a few questions, Minister Marić. I'll wait for Špirić's dock. I'll ask you a few questions, Minister Marić. So first, why the transitional law? In Article 8, it appears to me that Mr. Avdić was saying who made up this board of directors and said it consists of four more people. We don't know what faces they are. Will it be known how many customs administrations have collected revenue? The next question – will the revenues be kept on the account of the joint administration or will they return to where they were collected for automation? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8607	I thank Mr. Jovanovuć. The word has a lady, please a little attention to bring this debate to an end, let's make a statement, and then we'll take a break, after this law. Hold on, don't get out of the O.R. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared, it is the last reported debater. All right, and Mr. Filip Andrić after that, here he comes back later. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8608	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, Mr Pedi Eždaun and OHR and the commission reportedly through the opposite water heater were mentioned on several occasions today, i.e. The Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure sent this bill, and at the same time I hear that last night, the extended College discussed only this law for two and a half hours. I remind those who have not had the opportunity to see the law, it is the five-page law, on four sides, pardon, plus an explanation, i.e. a total of 13 members, and I am convinced that the College, or representatives of the political parties, went to the point last night that it could have done a much shorter time better law without putting any objection, possibly to the commission, or to the OHR, or anyone who possibly sent this law. Otherwise, I express my congratulations to the Council of Ministers for the rapid reaction, since July 1st is very close, to a rapid reaction, to a move that is more political in nature, even though the instrumentation is exclusively economic. Today, we were talking about a constitutional basis here. In their discussion, Kolega Novaković, and in part, Kunić, mentioned the issue of the constitutional basis of the united customs administrations, i.e. the single customs administration and the indirect taxation administration, calling for Dejton, of course, so I will remind you of the Dejton which speaks of a single economic space, of the free movement of people, goods and capital, oatrine policy at the state level, while mentioning that this is the only country in the world where customs policy is at the state level, and implementation was in entities. And I remind you of one very important thing in Dayton that mentions '96. So, in February, it seems to me, within six months, negotiations on the transfer of entity jurisdiction to a state-run new one begin. Well, we've been through a little over six years, not six months, so here we are discussing this important law. It was also a matter of income belonging. I guess we'll have income when we have VAT when we have future law. I purposely speak here future law, not transitional and not indicative, it is my objection even to the Council of Ministers and to the College which it has delivered to parliamentarians under this name. The transitional law should, I guess, refer to the temporary duration of this law to the adoption of a new one, although our legislation implies that one law is put out of force, or ceases to be valid according to a specific procedure of making new or adopting appropriate decisions, i.e. acts in Parliament. The framework law also guides the Council of Ministers and all of us to get used to European terminology, here are many parliamentarians often travelling across Europe, in Brussels, etc. So it will agree with me that there is a termology directive, not framework law, not transitional, not any frames for a picture, etc., but a directive. And the directive must enter our terminology, our way of thinking, and whether it has a basis in the Dayton Constitution or not. If it isn't, then we've been obliged to reminisce within six months, I remind you, since the Dejton signing, we've agreed on it. I am sorry that the College of Representatives, members of the College, did not make one retouch last night, so they made a new proposal for this law, where 60 several shortcomings would not have occurred, which are not only a lack of termological nature, beginning with the fact that, say, earlier directors of earlier entity administrations, and that this law does not put, anywhere, existing entity administrations out of force or their use or to say their existence. And I will therefore propose, with the support of this one start to say reform in this very important sector, and I think we all know well that we are losing annually because of an inefficient existing customs system much more than the sum of all our budgets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both state and entity and 10 cantonal and local budgets. Now I'm just talking about the efficiency of the existing system, so obviously we need to radically change something, yes, I'm sorry that at least something hasn't been changed last night at the College, or a new draft, but I'm going to suggest that today, after we adopt this law, it is not at all controversial, the Council of Ministers on an urgent retouche of this law, or a new draft of the law, regardless of what it will be of a temporary character, but it will be a valid law until there is a next step in reforming customs, or tax legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8609	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahemtović. Mr. Gligorić and we still have Mr. Filip Andrić. Two debaters. That'll be the end of the debate. Let the services begin calling the MPs back to the O.R. because we are approaching the voting act very quickly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8610	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thought the chairman would call the MPs to enter the O.R. because I'm talking when that vote came. Let's make a little joke. They're so dear to my colleagues. Given the controversy that we have here, there's a lot of good being said, and I'm going to make it as short as possible, but it might be useful for the future when we have these important legal projects, so I would give one suggestion that in the future when the Council of Ministers, or some other commission, or the OHR, will be working on such an important project to include the College, or some competent commission of this home so that we at least have some kind of relationship, continuity in that work. Because on one side we have the Council of Ministers who, you know, we're talking to OHR, and there's something taboo, something sacred, and we all accept it, and that's how we rule ourselves out from one important job. Therefore, it is one criticism and the College that in the future it will not allow any such project, and in the future it is known by the end of the year that will be important, we will be excluded through our commissions. I think that way we will be able to handle many of these issues more easily, and in the end we will not be able to say as MPs that we are not involved and that we may be able to get out of a project in this way. The Council of Ministers, instead of working on these legal projects, they have agreed to actually receive everything from the OHR workshop and thus release into the procedure without a single score of 61 all of what the OHR delivers to them. It is now only here to be seen that OHR is doing its full capacity, producing certain draft laws, delivering them to some executive body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this case the Council of Ministers, they are doing nothing but adopt it within an hour, without any change and delivering it nicely to Parliament as well as an emergency procedure, you cannot change it. And then the Council of Ministers walks abroad, and we are all looking forward today when the chairman says the chairman of the Council of Ministers is traveling, so reminds me of those surrealists, the president will come and bring food, and bring us weed. So we've done a shitty job, if we asked for a report and saw what was done and how much was traveled and how much money was taken, would be a devastating result. An empty walk, I guarantee you all that. Okay. Now I would express satisfaction at the very end because this early law will be passed, and he is temporary, and he is in fact only in office to bring one institution. And that's why I'd like to thank the position that's going to vote. Why? Because they're in this, to finish the thought, because there were affairs right here on the entity level by customs, right? It was said that there was an affair, that it was a crime, that these people made it possible for the gray economy, because it was all out of budget flows. I therefore thank you for bringing such an institution as the congregation's majority and for where the real reform forces will come in the form of the opposition and then working fairly without affairs as your period has characterized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8611	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8612	You can't go any other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8613	I hope those who went out went into the O.R. If not, invite the MPs to enter the O.R., professional services. Here you go, Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8614	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, members... On behalf of the HDZ-Democracy Club, I would like to support behind this speaker all efforts to achieve this joint service at BiH level and, in this sense, I accept and experience this transitional law as a small step, although it has been accidentally made in this direction. With this, we will truly support this law, although we certainly have a justified series of objections if we engage in a debate now, as the previous speakers have said. I would be most fortunate today to discuss the fundamental law on this service on the establishment of an indirect taxation service at BiH level and in a second reading, to discuss amendments, and not, unfortunately, in such a way as to establish such essential laws, 62 teams more, because we know about this initiative from before, if I am not mistaken for almost half a year. That's when we knew that July 1st was a trap for the success of this service. Indeed, I was surprised when I came to realize that no one was working to prepare this law, a fundamental law on establishing the ministry, and we will establish the ministry on July 1st. Clearly, when we bring ourselves into such a situation, then we have no way out, no other solution, but to make such laws, which, in truth, I fear can produce many problems in their application. With that, the Council of Ministers' suggestion, this is just the first, one in a series of very important laws. Follow the other set of laws, which must follow this law. Thus, the Council of Ministers' suggestion, respecting the Commission's efforts, which has been working on this to include the Council of Ministers more actively in the preparation of new laws, that is, this law, which we should have discussed today, is probably the deadline of this law, as it stands out in Article 2 in three months, so that we do not again find ourselves in the same situation that we do not have the possibility of amendments to discuss again without, in the same way, the bad law to include, to prepare the law, to put into parliamentary procedure, and all other laws that follow and to reach quality solutions, which, in truth, will make major shifts in the field, and in this sense we will support this law, as a small step, in truth clumsy towards one good cause.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8615	I thank Mr. Andrić. Here's another MP, asking for a word, and if I've already announced it several times, but people change their minds, what are you gonna do? Mr. Moranjkić has his word, we must allow it to go out for the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8616	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm getting a little lost in this room. And you know why I'm getting lost? I'm losing it because I know by noon we're working on an emergency procedure law, which is put to the vote on whether or not they're going to go through an emergency procedure. That, specifically, is not with this law. The law on criminal proceedings and the law on criminal law is the same, and then we start with a debate, which doesn't mean anything at all, because basically the law, which goes, to which there's no amendment, all this story is, the story, that we make each other's memories incomprehensible. So I'd like to pray, if it is, that we stick to the Rules of Procedure. If that's the case, which it is, then let's talk about the principle of whether or not we accept it going by emergency procedure we vote on and we know how it goes. We lost two hours here, we didn't say anything, we can't say anything, we can't put what we can put in place, and in the end we'll vote, what we should have said in two sentences. I couldn't really say I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8617	That's what it is, Mr. Moranjkić. I think so all the time. Please, nice. I am concluding a debate on this agenda point, or on 63 procedures for this agenda point. We're now approaching the plea. Have all the MPs been informed to enter the O.R.? Who, therefore, is in order to accept the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration under an emergency procedure under Article 105? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who are the abstentions? Thank you very much. The Federation who's in favour? Thank you very much. Republika Srpska? Thank you very much. So, here's the deal. 36 are present in the O.R. 33 MPs voted in favour; 2 voted against – 1 was abstention. So there is general parliamentary support. From the Federation of BiH, 24 MPs were in favour, which is more than one-third and RS nine MPs were in favour, which is more than one-third, so I realize that we accepted the procedure, the emergency procedure under Article 105. We're going to make a statement about the law. Who's up for the law? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against the law? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you very much. The Federation who's in favour? Did you count it? Republika Srpska, who's in? Thank you. I'm publishing the results of the vote. For the law, more present in the hall of 36 MPs – they voted 34-1 against – 1 abstention and it has already been seen here that there is entity support, but, behold, we have spent, in addition to this general parliamentary support there is also entity support. According to entities, 24 are from the Federation for, which is more than one-third, from RS is 10 for, which is more than one-third and I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed with these results a transitional law on the merger of customs administrations and the establishment of an indirect taxation administration. Thank you very much. I'm taking a break until 4:00. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Branka, right? Ad.13. Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of printing works of state interest You have therefore received a decision on the determination of printing works from the state interest. The decision was adopted by the House of Peoples on 30 September 2002, so the promoter is practically the House of Peoples. I'm opening the debate. 64 If no one answers the word, I'll conclude the argument. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to adopt this decision? Who's that? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with 32 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, adopted a decision on the establishment of printing works of state interest. Ad.14. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity You have received a proposal for a decision. As you know, the House of Representatives appointed three members of the Regulatory Agency for Electricity at the 8th session of 4 February 2003. However, at the 3rd session of February 25, 2003, the House of Peoples did not accept the appointment of the Federation candidates. For this reason, a re-proposal procedure for two candidates from the Federation of BiH has been carried out, so you have received a new proposal for two candidates. A candidate from RS, Vladimir Dokić, was appointed from both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I'm opening the debate. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8618	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, as the chairman said, we at one of our sessions, put forward a proposal for two candidates and were then presented to us, I would say, and the characteristics, or documentation of what these candidates are. I'd like to ask if we can get along with this decision and, I'd say candidate qualification, because, believe me, it's about the state agency, the power regulator. I'd like to choose here, really, people who understand themselves in this business. So, I miss my biography, so I can, as an MP, read myself about these candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8619	I thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? Do we have anyone from the Council of Ministers here present? So, you see, I got the material, I proposed it to the MPs, that's all I got from the material. This was also at the Federal Parliament. The federal parliament adopted this, on a proposal from the federal government and delivered it to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. This is, indeed, a failure that we don't have these biographies here. But I don't think we're in a position to further put this thing off. As for these candidates, I can tell you about Mr. Mirsad Salkić, because I know a man, I can, if I have to, who he's not familiar with. As for Mr. Željko Topić, here, I can also say, from what I've learned now it's about a graduate electrical engineering engineer, right? I believe the Federal Parliament took care of this. I'm sorry, we don't have anyone from the Council of Ministers to give us 65 answers to what Mr. Bešlagić is about. But we're not in a position to delay this. I'm begging you, I insisted last time, no matter who the candidates were, and I voted last time, just to get it sooner. It didn't pass at the House of Peoples, I don't know, so I really don't know Mr. Belkić, but I would ask you to declare this to go on, that we have finally this institution. If no one answers their word anymore, I'm the one who concludes the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who's that? Who's in? Did you count it? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you very much. From the Federation who's in, the Federation who's in? Thank you very much. From Republika Srpska, who's in favour? 35 MPs are in the O.R. For the 27 – against the four – were abstentions. There is general parliamentary support – most. The Federation voted 15 which was more than one-third, the RS voted 10, which is also more than one-third, and I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has made a decision to appoint two members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, these are gentlemen: Mirsad Salkić and Željko Topić. Thank you very much. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. The BiH Central Bank's 2002 annual report. You got the Central Bank report. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Fatima Leho needs a word. Here you go. Of course, the Central Bank is always present when discussing these reports. The Central Bank Proposer is here, if there are any questions. In front of the Central Bank, therefore, the authorized person of the vice governor, as far as I know, is present, so he can answer the questions. Mrs. Leho, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8620	The chairman, MPs, representatives, guests, the Finance Commission and the Budget of this House discussed this annual report by the Central Bank of BiH and concluded that it was proposed for adoption, because it is comprehensive, correct, transparent and will also be the position of the SDA Club in voting. However, as a member of the Commission, I have my own personal dilemmas, which have appeared to me by reading this report and analysing some of the sizes in the report that I think we are being warned about and that we should change something in the future as the legislative body most at the state level. At the beginning of the report, on page 4, the introductory word "government" for Karensibord, as part of a monetary policy, implemented by us in 66 of the Central Bank and led by monetary policy, all these years the reason is that this was done to ensure that BiH citizens and potential foreign investors in BiH could continue with absolute confidence in KM stability towards its currency... initially it was a German mark, later the euro. Looking further in the report on what happened to these two segments, which are reasons for Karensibord, means for direct foreign investment, to do so, you can see on the side of the 10th table, which shows that the countries of Southeast Europe, Albania, in four years' time, received foreign direct investment of $551m. Bosnia and Herzegovina 672, Bulgaria three billion 120, Croatia four billion 991, Macedonia 719 and Romania 4 billion 423, which means that it is ahead of cca five billion Croatia, then Romania is coming and Bulgaria is coming. The explanation that in Bosnia, in its Central Bank, or National as it is called in the modern economies of Europe, Karensiboard must remain for this reason no longer stands, because obviously that we had a constant coverage of our conversion currency by foreign currency did not attract investors. So this can no longer be an excuse for this kind of coverage of the conversion marks and for these Central Bank's powers. There's another reason the citizens are written here. As for citizens, look at the table on page 37 of how BiH citizens, related to the converting brand and the banking sector, I mean commercial banks. On page 37, it says in sources that citizens have 39% deposits in the overall banking system of BiH. They use 44% loans, which means that foreign banks, which are also present in the banking sector of BiH and domestic banks, take citizens as serious partners and almost half of the potential that citizens have. When you look at business or as we say private companies, there are 19% deposits in sources, and private companies use 40%. Since it is mentioned in Mr. Guverner's opening statement that citizens and this foreign direct investment are the reason, we have seen that they have not helped in direct foreign investment Karensibord that it is not so tempting, that we are at the bottom of these five countries, and as far as citizens are concerned, they have already accepted and received this knowledge, which means that both of these reasons no longer stand in the future. I've said all this to get to page 41 where our Central Bank's assets and liabilities are active. Bosnia and Herzegovina has two billion 399m marks abroad in bank accounts, meaning its assets are out there. As it looks to the countries, you have on page 48. In Great Britain, Bosnia has 976 million, which means cca billion in accounts. In Germany, 849, Belgium, 427, there's a little bit more small in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, 92 and 53. To those funds, because of the risk, it is a reason in this report, this central bank, so BiH has charged cca 70m interest. When we take the state of economics in BiH and we see in this report that we have an unambiguous economic space, that we have different averages of wages in the country, somewhere less for a third, that we have different pensions, the averages of pensions, are somewhere less for 67 thirds, when we see that there are no foreign direct investments, when we say that we are struggling with budgets both at the state level and at the level of entities and at the level of cantons. In this situation, when the Central Bank charges for 2 billion and 400 million foreign marks on the ino accounts and charges these interest rates further, they remain meant to return to accounts and to interest them, and in this situation agriculture, in companies that are export-oriented with high interest rates in commercial banking, it cannot be talked about moving the economy forward. The economy is looking for heated financial flows, looking for waves to set them off. This is the kind of Central Bank that has to go to work next year to do what other national banks are doing and what banks are doing ahead of the country's economy. This is how she survived. There was a time, in my opinion, when she had to be like this, while, the banking site is already arranged with us, the country's board system and the external system is already over, so now the interest we get, I think we're the only country that has, here you have it on the first page, that the balance sheet of the Central Bank of BiH is gaining power in 2002 since the foreign exchange reserves are free, i.e. They're still above the level necessary to cover all the... Passes, wrapped for 75 million, and now they've got 118 million. So, more than the KM show's done, we still have 118 million. Imagine what it would mean to target at least part of the profit in agriculture, this which the Central Bank had, at low interest rates, symbolic, should be just credit, or it could be 0.1%, but to begin to cultivate its production, because without it it's all a story. We can write liquid justice, work, strategy, this, that, but there's nothing out of it. The BiH Central Bank must take over as a locomotive in the economy and in BiH's economic space, and everyone else is attached to it. This way, if it stays, it's a dead sea for me, and there's no water out there, as soon as there's no movement, no money that doesn't spin, no new value and no progress. Our averages will be even smaller on the head, our salaries and pensions will be even less. Therefore, I think that in the autumn we need to think well about this problem as a legislative body and offer a solution to change and consult all those who think that they can contribute to this field and go in, together and parallel with other processes and into this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8621	I thank Mrs. Leho. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who's so we can adopt the Central Bank report?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8622	Well, I can't take suggestions anymore than a report. Well, we can't change the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8623	Please, nice. So this is how we adopt the report, and Mrs Leho's discussion will be forwarded to the Central Bank. Thank you very much. 68 Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? I figure we're unanimous with 35 votes, right? 35 votes for, without votes against and without abstentions, adopted an annual report by the BiH Bank Centre for 2002 and concluded that a stenogram of today's debate involving only Mrs Leho is being delivered to the Central Bank of BiH. Ad.16. General directions and priorities in implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy You, ladies and gentlemen MPs, have received material for this point. It is a document adopted by the BiH presidency. So adopted the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I'm opening the debate. We're taking this document practically into consideration. This does not mean, of course, that we cannot make comments, suggestions, proposals, opinions on this document, or on the conduct of our country's foreign policy. In that sense, I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Špirić has already signed up. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8624	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs, esteemed guests, general directions and priorities in implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy is an important and important document. I regret that there are no members of the presidency today, I regret that there is no BiH Foreign Minister to hold a debate on this document. I think that lately media performances related to the DKP network and the return of up to a hundred diplomats in BiH have made a bitter impression and, I think, if those who are dealing with such a way of thinking in the DKP network would add up everything that is written to see how much these moves cost the BiH state. I wanted to ask the question, but unfortunately there are no members of the presidency today and there is no minister. How do you become a caviar diplomat in this country? Is there anyone in the DKP network who deserves a pass? Is there a destination presidency where, eh, you see, this is the future of Bosnian Herzegovina diplomacy, this is an example, etc.? I think that, unfortunately, the way we send signals is through which victory option BiH leaves in the area without a chance. I wanted to ask on purpose. Can the Presidency tell me the criteria whether anyone in the DKP network has passed the test according to their assessment of some benchmarks, or if the only criterion is three years long? Will we ever be able to build diplomats for which BiH will be known? So I think this part of the agenda, of course, here, the chairman said that we're taking this into account. But I don't think we're going to make a move if the presidency's jurisdiction is related to foreign policy in BiH. I think Parliament's energy, at least it can ask, to suggest and some final decisions, of course, are made by the Presidency. If this is the point of the agenda, that we are receiving knowledge, here I am informing Parliament that I have, I have just done so and I do not understand anything. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8625	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and let Mr. Munib Jusufović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8626	Dear colleagues and colleagues, unlike Mr Špirić, I have no intention of accepting this for any simple reason why I find it entirely inappropriate, that we talk. We're supposed to get to this point on the agenda. To konstatovati out that there is no one from the Presidency, to realize that the foreign minister is not present, with full respect for the advisors, allow that it is not common in any parliament in the world in such cases to address advisers, regardless of their degree of competence, which, perhaps even greater than those who should address us. What's more, I'm convinced it is. But that doesn't change things. This material that we got here, we got 28.05 from the O.G. Presidency. The presidency may have seen it adopted on 26.03. So, the Presidency had two months of this general direction and then delivered them to us, which is in support of how seriously we were taken as a parliament, so all the remarks and suggestions of the benevolent and others, which would be given here today, I don't think they would take us anywhere, and this is what fellow Špirić was talking about that everything is true. However, in this material it is not even set as such. Unfortunately, in this material only there are general directions and priorities for implementing military policy, in which, in addition to principles, priorities and directions are not listed in strategic indications of mechanisms for implementing this, which has always been the practice of finding such materials. So what we should be most concerned about is our contribution and all of us in this, which is, in what way these principles, priorities and directions should be implemented as effectively as possible. We, objectively, don't have a chance to talk about it, and therefore, regretfully, once again, if we really want to keep to the dignity of this Parliament, in the right way, then we should manifest ourselves as it is today. But thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8627	Mr. Munib Jusufović. Here you go. Get him ready. Who's on the phone? Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8628	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, I'll say a few words. As far as the presidency's competence as a collective body at BiH level is concerned, it is not in principle a dispute. This is a document, which determines the strategic direction of foreign policy, which is the responsibility of the Presidency and not only to receive knowledge, but in a certain way or we receive, but we can at least give some suggestions, which, possibly, Presidency 70 will consider whether to supplement this document etc. Personally, I think this is a solid basis for discussing this issue. As far as this question is concerned, mentioned by fellow Špirić and I thought about saying something about it, however, I do not want to repeat myself. Because that, too, segment has not been adequately treated so far, because it seems to me that we will have to change our understanding of the issue of diplomacy or diplomacy. That it doesn't happen that every time the election ends up rewarding, it depends on which party comes to power and we reward, because it's always a challenging job in the eyes, but they do everything the same. We can't criticize anyone because they've all done so, so in a certain way we're rewarding them with some kind of party rewards. I think really, if we want to be a serious state then we're going to have to make an effort to educate these people, because it's a process. It takes a long time for diplomats to be educated. So, that question, I'm not saying again, should pay attention, if we want to hold any of this country's heights. The second question, which we consider to be, is that the Club also considers that the issue of diaspora is not sufficiently highlighted. What does that mean? So it means that in a certain way we don't respect again what we've been saying all along today imposes on us OHR laws etc. We do not respect ourselves, and this time the issue of diaspora in a certain way almost raised a political question. Which shouldn't be. Why do we not respect and respect these people who have found themselves in various countries of the world for various reasons from BiH? After all, taught by the experiences of some other countries, we should come to our senses and learn something from it, draw out the conventions and the positive and the negative. Here, you were the club president here, I don't know how many of you were in Ireland, so damn it, it was a smart experience to learn something that Ireland, right on the basis of the diaspora, which I know, made capital. And, look, it's a good thing they sent you there to see. I think you'll all, in a certain way, if you didn't know how to see and strengthen what I'm talking about. Second question, let's take our neighborhood. Croatia, whether Croatia is under the circumstances, since, as I say, 100-200 years ago, they went from Croatia to overseas and other countries, that in a certain way, they know in a very good way that they are using this potential. And, Serbia in a certain way has developed a diaspora, so it's very far away from that drinking area, let's get out. When I say this why I mention Ireland, and you can find as many examples as you want and take these neighbouring countries, I also believe that this strategy must give meaning to neighbouring countries. Under Number One, we have to develop these issues and these relations, and then move on, because we are European-oriented, but if we don't work out in the yard and the environment, then it's hard for us to go to Europe, if we don't do those relationships. And in order for these relationships to be settled, then we must respect the citizens of our country, who are outside. That proof of what I'm saying is that we absolutely don't respect ourselves or our own people, we don't respect these here in Bosnia, and let's respect those who went out of Bosnia somewhere is evidence, that I think we're the only country who's had any kind of connection, communication with our citizens through satellite channels, and we've killed people, and we can simply by phone or by text or on vacation when they come to find out what's going on. It's misery, misery and shame. There is, if we're going to accept this other one of mine, if we develop that the good neighbors are amongst the neighbours, the only thing we can track or what our people can track, eh, now it's a matter of principle and 71 political. Is this where it is considered enough for the HTV channel to be monitored by all BiH citizens? Is PINK enough? Turns out, you have to open your eyes and say, but if we're going to be principled, frankly, then it turns out that only Bošnjak should be interested in the diaspora. If that's a principle question and we solve it that way, then this country doesn't stand a chance. There's no perspective. There is some knowledge that television has received support from the European Union to establish this satellite. Unfortunately, let's all remember before the election, we all promise when we go outside, how we'll all do that that will work out the satellite line, etc. Come on, at least let's do what we can do, I don't know which way, but that's a priority to do something about it is. Here, it is a few questions that the Presidency should take into account and in this direction take some action to do so, and if it does so, in a certain way it will make a significant contribution to strengthen the dignity of this country, in whose steel it will also be a big thing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8629	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8630	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the name of this document, which, as we see, reads: "The general directions and priorities for implementing BiH's foreign policy," I would say justifies the content, because in truth, it is about general rights and defined policy priorities. I agree with those who think that even so, how the name and content, could be, I say, more content, or even with this name, this document could be more content. But, in my assessment, and this is how the document is formulated or formulated, it is indeed encouraging for the reason why, if the finding that three members of the Presidency, or the Presidency as an organ, agreed on what it says here, is that it is a big step for BiH as a whole, because there are also numbers, of course, for me a lot of undeniable principles and attitudes, but it is encouraging that in one document they find. Of course, the inevitable question or finding, followed by this, has already been said by someone who are mechanisms and how to implement it. If we take these principles, i.e. the principles and priorities, to be applied to each of them within their respective competences, there are, of course, members of the Bureau, who have the legitimacy and are very often in contact with the international factor, whether bilateral or multilateral. So here's a chance for these principles to be affirmed. Of course, this Parliament, through its working bodies, and operatives who are perhaps the most in charge within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or ambassadors around the world, should be the ones who, perhaps most or most should promote these ideas that are being told here. Eh, now I'm asking a question. So, are we going to understand this document all the same? If we all understood him the same way, then this is a very, very encouraging signal. I, therefore, along with this, of course, have heard that it would be good to have 72 here today both members of the Presidency, or necessary even, as well as Mr Minister and his deputy, or co-workers of the foreign minister, it can be said that there are no, in my court, disputed principles or even priorities. There may be something else to come in, but I support what's been said here. This, rightly pointed out by counterpart Jusufović, can be found, to the soul, in one not entirely concrete form, somewhere in these final sentences under point c) where it says that the specific objective of BiH's foreign-political activities, pre-dilateral, will be to protect the interests and help Bosnian-Herzegovic citizens, who are staying abroad and to exercise their rights, and to help economic operators, etc. So, there is a sign of it, but here it may not be and should not be just a word of BiH citizens staying abroad, but, perhaps, those who have decided to stay abroad and may be considered a diaspora in some broad sense, so to speak, and why it was necessary to pass as soon as possible the law around which has already been entangled in this House by law on the queen of emigrants. Therefore, in this sense, perhaps the finding could be strengthened or this policy would create stronger co-operation, precisely, with emigrants, and not with those, only with those who have the treatment of people who are temporarily abroad and with whom, of course, I support this should achieve appropriate co-operation. To conclude, therefore, with everything that could be said, in my court, therefore, really principles and these basic priorities are not controversial, but the question is how do we understand what is written here and how do we realize it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8631	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Živković and after that, Mr. Martin Raguž will be exhausted by now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8632	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, first let me tell you about the way this document came to us. I think that's where jurisdiction got a little mixed up. In fact, on the committee where we discussed this document in the Foreign Affairs Commission, I came up with information that the document was being prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it then went through the adoption of the Presidency and eventually came to this assembly. I'm asking the question here. Whose authority are they to create foreign policy, whose authority are they to enforce that policy? I think it's the Presidency that was supposed to create foreign policy, forward it here to this House, and then bring it down to the foreign policy ministry's level to implement such an agreed and created policy. Obviously, in this country, you don't know who has to do what in any way. And with that and this document that came to us here, in my opinion, it's, in fact, unspecified and contradictory in some parts of it. It seems that the beginning of this document is more like the writing of a constitution, i.e. the preamble of the constitution, which I do not think is necessary to have one 73 document, as well as the first two passports after that, where it is quoted as having a duty, i.e. the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. It is quite unnecessary in one such document, and immediately in the third paragraph, we come to what we do not do in the bottom of the sentence where it says those generally accepted principles of international law, and we are witnessing and we have voted in the last assembly here that in a bilateral agreement with the United States they don't extradite their citizens, so we write one thing and the other we need to admit that we are a small country that we can't run foreign policy on the principles of equality, respect for others, rather than lead it the way the wind blows and how we can and how we should. This is what we should accept and admit, that we are not lying to ourselves and that we are writing here a list of wishes, congratulations and what we would like, and in fact we cannot do, as we declare it is, that we are in favour of the fight against thorism, and BiH is camps, etc. I also said to the Commission that I don't think it's right, nor do I think it's necessary to write in three places that we are in order to co-operate with the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, we could also write that we are also a group of Orthodox countries, and that this is the priority of politics or a group of Catholic countries, I think it's quite enough to write it. Also, as you said, there is no one here from the presidency, there is no one from the foreign ministry to explain to me that co-operation with the movement of non-oriented countries will continue, with the tendency for BiH to get a watcher's status. What we want, to be a non-classified country again, so we've done everything we can to get out of unclassified countries and identify ourselves and get into some blocks and now we want to be some unclassified country or what I know, etc. etc. and it has been overcome, because it is not in black letters written here, boldly said that BiH's foreign policy priority is to join the European Union and that we have to submit everything. This is not indicated as a decimal one sentence. So this document is out of line, because after that this assembly said so. I think he should be thrown away, and he should be dejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8633	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8634	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the 11th session of the Foreign Affairs Commission, we have covered the debate on this document, that at the meeting of the Commission, there was a present Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, so we have ensured the presence of the relevant institution and, as far as I think, the Commission and myself are personally not disputed. This is a document signed by the Bureau. So, here stands the Bureau's signature, and the presidency can hire experts, can its advisers, can the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they have discussed and established this document. So, that, I don't think in that sense we should argue this is the Presidency's document. The one referred to in Article 5. The Constitution has this jurisdiction, but what I think is, no matter what they do here today, what there is no one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it does not reduce our responsibility to say our word as representatives about this document and Parliament's role in the implementation of these principles. Here, in that regard, I would like to say a few words, which I can contribute to making BiH achieve 74 of these goals in the foreign policy plan and not only these but also some others for which here, openly today, we say as Parliament that it can. I think, therefore, also, without question, let's say the framework and the essence of these principles that have been established here, some things would be good for us to conclude as Parliament. This document should be added to the way in which these objectives are realised. That's the lack of this document. We do not have an institutional infrastructure indicated here, whether it is the Council of Ministers, whether it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Parliament, or the DKP network, or destinations around the world, which will and in any way implement the foreign policy objectives and priorities set out in accordance with the Constitution. Without it, I am afraid that we will remain in one undefined state, and the dynamics of relations both at global level in the world and Evropk, require, indeed, the commitment of both the Presidency and the Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Without that, we can't talk about the round concept of foreign policy, so I think, here's the Commission, in full terms, has had the opportunity to visit Slovenia and Croatia, the countries that, in the spring of Europe, mean in full membership, Croatia's real croissants in 2007 now see Serbia-Montenegro announcing, too, as the target year of 2007, what they have done both at Parliament and at the level of government to have that structure, which can handle the adoption of legislation, harmonisation, teaming, investment... each of these countries has invested, at least, in 100 to 150 young people per three years at prestigious colleges and universities in Europe and the world. I think it would be one of the conclusions of this House to ensure that these goals are invested and trained by people, who can see these objectives competently tomorrow. Secondly, I think that priority we have defined as Parliament, which is the European Union, is not focused enough and set aside in this document as a priority. I think that priority deserves special elaborate and, in particular, steps and I think that gesture should be accepted by the Presidency. The third thing, what I think this document must make known is that BiH, in the foreign policy plan, in terms of integration, will not be able to meet these goals unless it takes over from the international community, the High Representative and his current position in BiH. I think that we are obliged to say this as Parliament, if we want to be an equal interlocutor in international circles in international relations, then we must draw the goal. With what dynamics, which steps, it remains to be seen, but each should be set as a goal. And, one of the important things that dominates the world's foreign policy, here, we see that it also dominates the meeting, at a summit between the European Union and the United States are security issues. Here, we'll have a chance at the next agenda point to object to that. I think, therefore, that in regional co-operation, in the wake of BiH's involvement in Euro-Atlantic, military and security organisations, this dimension is not well enough or adequately observed at all, and it is indeed a prerequisite for BiH to pass some things on that path. So, I can also inform you that the Commission's conclusion that in the 9th month to provide for this home is a quantitative report on staying in the DKP network, because here we see today there have been a number of questions here on the subject. One full report, based on which it could be discussed, and on the criteria on which someone is appointed as a representative of BiH, was 75 that it was ambassadors or experts, the duration of the mandate, the redefining of destinations and everything else, and I think that as Parliament we have the right to ask and, please, to support the Commission's proposal to address, in any future appointment, or to go to the country of appointment, the appointed ambassadors or ambassadors, that is, the opening directions before the Commission for Foreign Affairs of this House. I think it is a practice in democratic countries and thus would make the state of the DKP network more transparent, more accessible to the public and this Parliament. Those are some of the conclusions. I do not think that we should enter into confrontation with the bearers of these principles, but as Parliament to contribute and recognise our role, and I think that in that sense I can support these conclusions of the Commission which I have spoken of as a single contribution to Parliament's taking over its share of responsibility in the implementation of these principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8635	Thank you. If no one answers their word anymore, I'm the one who concludes the debate. I propose, therefore, the only possible conclusion in this situation, that Parliament, since this is the document adopted by the Presidency, is the conclusion. 1. That Parliament takes note, therefore, of this document of the Presidency. 2. That Parliament is delivering its observations, proposals and suggestions to the BiH Presidency, which have been heard or could be heard here today in this debate, is the only possible conclusion from these two points, including this, of course, of which Martin Raguž, President of the Commission for Foreign Policy and Vice-President, therefore, including everything that has been discussed in Parliament. Who's to this conclusion? We should vote. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I don't have a report in writing. Do you need it on the entities? So 30 MPs are present – 26 voted in favour – 1 against – 3 abstentions. You don't need it on entities. We also have general parliamentary and entity support. We've adopted this conclusion. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.17. A plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina I would like to remind you that at the 9th session held on 4 March 2003, on the basis of a debate on the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we adopted certain conclusions, among other things, on the conclusion of the 2nd, we have obliged the Council of Ministers to propose measures to Parliament to improve the security situation, including the BiH Security Policy document. So this material that you got for this point product is the conclusion of 76 of this home from that session, when we discussed the security situation. You have received the document and I am opening the debate here and the Minister of Security, Mr Bariša Čolak, if he wishes to address Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8636	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together, I will try very briefly to make a few notes on this document that is before you. It is a plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation, adopted by the Council of Ministers at its 11th session of 29 April. This plan has been done on only four pages. It includes three chapters, where we said in the first place, in fact, analyzed the state it is now in BiH. The second chapter discusses measures to be taken, where, of course, the largest number of these measures by the ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security. In the third, therefore, chapter, where the security institutions at BiH level are mentioned, therefore, at lower levels, which they should do, of course, include Parliament itself, or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in terms of supervision and parliamentary control, both over this ministry and its constituents, such as DGS, the Information and Protection Agency, Interpol, etc. As it comes from this document, and in truth, it is our reality that the security situation in BiH is largely conditioned by the way in which all the infrastructure in BiH is implemented, which is largely dependent on individual security institutions at lower levels, i.e. at different levels of political and social organisation and, in truth, so far, we have not had any form of a security community until the formation of this ministry. Well, therefore, the analysis itself has always been done from different levels, with more levels, the judgment of such a security situation in BiH, and measures and activities, meaning, the actions taken, they were also taken from different levels and, of course, it had also not adequate measures and not effective measures, therefore, and measures which, in truth, could not give the expected result. Respecting and taking into account the structure of the BiH state, however, we have, however, taken appropriate steps in a significant part to improve the security situation in BiH. Namely, by establishing, above all, this ministry, I think that, however, certain conditions are being met, but, of course, this ministry should now be fully put into office, both in its original competences and in cooperation with other levels of security institutions in BiH. Of course, this includes assessing the security space in BiH from a single place, i.e. that the security space in BiH is understood as one and a single security space. 77 And, of course, then from the same level, to carry out judgment, to carry out an assessment and to propose measures and actions that will contribute to improving the security situation. In fact, we and if, as the ministry of 15 March, therefore, we do not have a function, it is a fact that we still have a unique database, on which we would have done, therefore, we do not have enough elements to create complete information about the state of security in BiH and, of course, that neither the organisations in our ministry have yet to function, here I am thinking primarily of the Agency for Information and Protection of BiH, so, of course, we have come exclusively through entity interior ministries, through the Brcko District police, but also an organisation within our ministry, above all DGS and Interpol. We have proposed here in these 11 points certain measures, certain actions, certain activities, which we appreciate are necessary to take, and we also think, if we subsidise them, that we will come to a much better position, or that the security situation in BiH will improve compared to the current situation. In any case, this implies, first of all, that the Ministry of Security, in its full capacity, is functioning, in terms of organisational, staff, functional and any other effort that needs to be done, but I am also thinking about the Information and Protection Agency and, in that sense, we are taking certain steps from the accommodation and organisation to the harmonisation of the law on the Agency for Information and Protection in BiH and fill in the Agency itself. For the State Border Service and Interpol, I am pleased to argue that they are quite solidly organised and certainly have one envious level throughout this region, it is not only an assessment of us from this ministry and the Council of Ministers, but we also receive such assessments at regional meetings. The Ministry of Security, too, thinks that, above all, it must create conditions, material conditions, it is still very difficult for now. Before the rebalancing of the budget, we will probably not be able to get any more significant resources, to fill in to start working organisedly, but it will certainly allow very quickly to exchange information within these security institutions in BiH, which is certainly not the case until today. We also think that we need to create an optimal political environment in which, of course, I mean this ministry and the Council of Ministers, but also this Parliament in terms of proposing laws, in terms of adopting laws, which would allow for a stronger and more effective fight, above all on terrorism, I mean organised crime, corruption, illicit trafficking of human beings, etc., and that the most difficult forms of crime and this fight against terrorism and organised crime, i.e. the state level is being led exclusively and that special forms are recognised, the most difficult forms of these crimes and that, of course, a strategy that would go to the state level in the fight against organised crime. We also think that state territory, therefore, BiH must indeed be identified as a single security space, first of all, that in different ways we would not treat the same 78 emerging forms of criminal acts, especially those most difficult, and in particular I think it is necessary to make a certain step, in the sense that the police search does not stop at borders both the county and the entity, which, unfortunately, has been the case so far. The international obligations, therefore, on behalf of BiH, i.e. on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina above all, and those concerning security from the ministry's jurisdiction, we think it is possible to take over exclusively from this ministry in the coming period. Of course, this implementation is possible and only possible in good cooperation with lower levels, i.e. with levels of both entity levels and lower levels than entities. In the context of improving this security situation, BiH institutions must support all forms of co-operation, primarily at regional level, and then at a wider level. In fact, in the last few months, we have participated in all major regional meetings and not only participated, here in the last few days I also hosted such a regional conference, organised here in Sarajevo, where 12 Southeast European countries participated, where the topic was exclusively data protection and processing, as well as witness protection and endangered witnesses. Here is thought of cooperation, therefore, within the framework of Southeast Europe and via Interpol and through Europol and through the SEKI centre in Bucharest, which in one way, I would say well, is doing its job in the context of countering cross-border crime, and co-operation is particularly expressed between customs authorities and police. It is also necessary to target specific activities towards other bodies and organisations, which are also involved and involved, in terms of the fight against organised crime, in particular inspections, tax, customs, etc. We also think that it is of utmost importance and more consistent action both with the Ministry of Justice and with the Prosecutor's Office. First of all, it is thought that in a certain way, one organised business is approached about a unique approach to criminal documentation, then operational processing, etc. In order to make these actions necessary in the preliminary procedure as soon as possible, in order for the complete process to be completed quickly. As part of the legislative role, we also appreciate the need to take appropriate steps. Some legal solutions make them even more effective than they are today, as they are today, because it is also a request and our request, that is, one of the conditions of accession to the European Union, but not only for this reason, but we appreciate that without it it is not possible to successfully counter organised crime. There are also a number of issues that will be needed in the future and how to account for specific forms of crime, such as the confiscation of assets, acquired by organised crime, then the ban on the availability of property, or the blocking of funds on accounts, etc. 79 It is also necessary to continue cooperation with international organisations, i.e. institutions, especially those engaged in security affairs, in this sense, of course, that it has come and how they are welcome and all the assistance in the form of professional training and education. We think it is also very important to develop a positive relationship with the public, which so far, we must admit was not the case and, to present to the public the truth that the Ministry, that the Council of Ministers, that we are all together, are actually here to oppose in one organised way all of these forms of crime in the protection of, in fact, fundamental human rights and the interests of all citizens. We think that the timely way to get citizens to know these elements, as well as those measures and activities that need to be taken in order to certainly contribute to the creation of a positive picture, a positive public relationship. Of course, no concrete measures have been developed in this document, nor did we think that this was the purpose of this document. Therefore, concrete operational methodical or technical-tactic measures will be taken within those bodies and those institutions of security character that are specifically implemented on the oven, but we think it is also very important that this plan of measures and activities is delivered both to entities and to the counties, that they make up their plans and concrete programmes of measures and activities, which they will undertake to report to this ministry, and therefore we as a ministry, or the Council of Ministers, to report to this Parliament in due time. Finally, here, as suggested here, we think that this proposed plan of measures and actions should be adopted by Parliament, as a document that would in any case serve to improve the security situation in BiH, and, of course, your additions or amendments that you propose should certainly be its component. Of course, the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Security, is responsible for the realization of this. We also suggest that for the first nine months we draw up information on the state of security in BiH. It is also proposed to Parliament that, within its competence, a permanent parliamentary body dealing with supervision, that is to say, supervise the city both the Ministry of Security and these organisational units within the Ministry itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8637	I would like to thank Minister Čolak for this exhaustive presentation on this report, a proposal for measures. I'm opening the debate, of course. Mr. Moranjkić, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Bešlagić and Mr. Špirić, so Mr. Raguž, Mr. Raguž take over, I will be a little absent.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8638	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. In part, Mr. Minister said, I was interested, but I wasn't quite sure that I could clearly figure out what period this plan 80 was adopted for. Whether it's long-term, medium-term or short-term, that's why I'm asking as well as the question. Secondly, as there is a synchronisation of action in this regard, given the participation of three or four levels of service to say to the authorities, which are directly involved in solving the security issue in this country and who gives this Parliament information that it does not happen at the beginning that someone has not received from it and from that and one segment tomorrow we do not have or is deliberately, in my opinion, left out. In that context, I suggest a conclusion. That every three months, this ministry submits a report on the security situation in BiH, because of the security of a lot of what this country depends on, and this country does or does not do to the state. That is why it would be good for this parliament to be kept informed, especially as we see every day in the means of informing many, slightly and caring things, when it comes to security in this country. This, by the way, don't let Mr. Minister take my parliamentary question, directed to your ministry and to you personally, stands in a drawer for six months, and until today I haven't received an answer to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8639	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Who's next to the word? Miss Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8640	I thank the chairman, I am taking the opportunity at the beginning to express the satisfaction that we have finally received some paper, which bears the title "Plan measures and actions to improve the security situation". I will remind you, and here, I have just begun to remember myself what initiated, in general, the debate at Parliament's session and why Parliament's request needs a resolution ministry of its own time, so allow it to be very important, since I have this paper in front of me to remind ourselves that it was a series of incidents, which marked a period in BiH. I think it began, with the respect of all the victims, with tragic events in the village of Kostanica. It continued during January of the month to several localities in BiH, I say with tragic consequences, which prompted this parliament to ask the ministry, the resolution ministry for information on the security situation, with a plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation. So if we fit that into the context now, what triggered it completely and what we got, I don't think we got the right answer, the right information. I mean, even, that even this time distance, that's already a little lost. I suppose Mr. Minister also agrees with that, where it was lost on specific weight, at least the debate of the species while it was compared to before it was fresh. 81 But let me mention, as the minister said in the morning presentation, here, I will remind you, on this paper stands the date 15.05. The Council of Ministers, as you said, adopted in April. On the very paper bearing the name "Plan of Measures and Actions", says March, or March 2003, and the store took place in January, and we are now almost in July. This is very important to keep in mind, that you might understand, why some things in paper stand the way they stand. And, if, with all due respect to the ministry's reaction, or to several ministers, because as we can see in this paper, the Ministry is still not, that it is still in the organisational, human and functional sense not established in travel capacity. I can only hope that since March of March, or March, this paper has changed something better in the ministry. If not, I suggest to the Secretary of Resorship, like the urgent information referred to Parliament, because it is alarming that for almost six months, e.g. The Ministry of Security, as one of the key ministries, has organisational, technical, financial, etc. in this security situation in BiH. trouble. In this regard, we suggest to the Minister that, indeed, that this kind of information should be given to us orally or in writing, because this Parliament should react if six months after the Council of Ministers was set up, at least this ministry did not provide a minimum for the functioning, speaking and organisational, technical, human and all that, because everything else is, then an empty story. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, I hope not to be offended, but this paper bearing the name Plan of Measures and Actions to improve the security situation is by no means measures or actions. These are some strategic ways of improving the security situation, some strategic data. Again, why I say some, security in the world today has different aspects: political, security and military police, and economics. All three of these aspects should be covered in strategic directions, from which concrete measures, i.e. actions to improve the security situation, arise. There are more hints of a security aspect here, semi-political only to the extent to which it relates to engagement, at least this paper, that is, this information, unfortunately, has very little economic information. I'm just going to remind myself that, based on some research, an action plan has been adopted to fight corruption and organised crime, and I think that the realization of this action plan should be an integral part of one of these documents. Secondly, in co-operation with OHR and the Central Bank, they also formed a plan to prevent money laundering. Also, here is the mention of organised crime, and corruption, and money laundering, etc., that economic security part, and I think it's very important for it to be found in one of these documents. Furthermore, I can support why I am saying this strategically, i.e. some strategic directions for improving the security situation, because concrete measures and actions when they work at levels, in line with the organisation of the BiH state, will produce concrete measures and actions, which will be done by police authorities in entities, the state border service, finance ministries, entity governments, state individual ministries etc. and coordinate the Ministry of Security. Of course, all responsibility for the security situation for 82 of all three of its segments cannot fall on one minister, one ministry, which is not yet organisational, technical, financial and human resources. I, in this sense, suggest to the Minister that as soon as possible, or today verbally to this Parliament, information has been presented, at least a ministry has been established in an organisational, human and functional sense, if it is not for which it is not, or what are the difficulties, what nature, and how can this Parliament help to overcome it urgently? Because, here and if I am an economist, what can be the delay, but the security part, that is, in this situation in which BiH is located, must not be delayed for one minute. Secondly, another reproof like this, perhaps in your document, on page 5 of Part 5, i.e. under Roman three, paragraph three, it is apparent that this plan does not include a security policy document, since the document is still at the stage of identification and adoption. I assume that it is the corrections of the already adopted security policy document, which, as I recall, came out in November or December of last year as a product of work of a working group and, which has already been in some way, experienced a form of reference in a further procedure. We were then in an inter-election period, to say, among the formations of BiH authorities. I know it's a very large document, that, if different representatives of different institutions are concerned with the security aspect, including that military-security... are in the making of this document and, if there is a correction to the adaptation of this document, it might be good to adopt this document as soon as possible, because otherwise we can wait for a strategy, a security strategy for the next half of the year, so much more if we don't have an organisational, Cardo, technical and financial establishment of the Ministry of Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8641	I thank Azra and I. Now it's Mr. Špirić Nikola and then Bešlagić Selim.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8642	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, I think that time has done its part so that it is a slow and tiresome thing, which does a little bit of pasivating on these last points of the agenda and, if I appreciate that it is very important points of the agenda and important documents for BiH. I thank the Minister for the opening presentation and it seems to me that it was very difficult, precisely for those reasons he was talking about to make a better document and, if we all wanted this document to be better. So, I respect when people from the state government are legalists and work on the basis of what we have, doing everything to make things better and by proposing changes to the kind of situation that can improve, and in that sense, without intending to know the problem a lot, to try to give my view of a few things, where we could, precisely with concrete measures, give a strong contribution to what is called a better security environment in BiH. 83 On page 2. The 5th and 6th lines where it is said, it is necessary to operate both the BiH Information and Protection Agency as a component of the ministry's organisation unit as soon as possible. You know how much trouble it was in this House to get to the law on the Agency for Information and Protection. I thought that the essence and content of the Law, and even some members of the law, who have been there for six years, in order to neutralize political influences, in order to get a state professional agency, would give us the right to Parliament to have a state agency under Parliament's control, not a ministry agency. It would be a much better contribution, for example, to security and security, at least I think so, and if I don't understand in this problem, but that agency campes within the ministry, until the ministry gets better. I don't think that, of course, as far as I understand it, that this is a unique example that we, the agency that has a mandate, have a six-year term in office as part of the ministry where the term of office is elected for four years, and it seems to me that the legal solutions have just gone towards getting a state agency, so let's say we have other state agencies, because the principle of the Central Bank where political neutrality, according to this important state institution, is neutralised by the choice of leadership for a longer period both from Parliament and the Council of Ministers. I think we need such a professional service, and if, at that time when we were doing this law, there were different opinions and, it seems to me, a mistake has been made in the organisation of the ministry, which that agency has been swallowed up and it pays the price of bad material conditions and the ministry and everything that follows the work of this ministry as a new ministry. It seems to me that this is my concrete proposal, and that Parliament, of course, forms a parliamentary committee to monitor the work of that agency, which is very important at the state level, and that would allow you in the ministry to have fewer problems, if we are really willing to contribute to making the security situation better. Another thing I want to draw attention to, of course, is the document is quite principled and I don't think this document itself will improve the situation, but, behold, in the end, it's not allowed to allow a police search, any kind of end up on the territory of the county, but also entities. People, it's tragic, it's unfortunate that the police search ends in regions, municipalities, entities, even at the state level, not even a police search for those people, which are a remethyl factor, or a poor security factor within a country, but this won't solve the problem. Here, if there is one, there must be a penalty measure for those who do so. Now, that would already be a concrete contribution if it didn't happen, it did, that, therefore, the state ministry would warn all those who have the intention to do so, in addition to, say, different international agencies, associations, which deal with the pursuit of people and whose activities threaten security, not only BiH, but also a wider environment. So, I wouldn't want this finding to stand, because it sends an ugly message, and it seems to me that in the first part there is a descriptive situation as it is in BiH, but that there should be something more concrete here. And, of course, I want to say that the processes in BiH are going at a pace that creates a single economic space, a single military space, a single security space and an intensities to amend the electoral law, a single political space. So, messages from what we hear today, from what's going on, I think this document is more like unpacking the security system in BiH and building an 84 new one. If these were just the details of something that a political person would want to happen, so if that is a good thing, to make a first step, but I don't think it should be shy about some things and, behold, I wanted to try to make a concrete contribution, it seems to me that it would be good to do this and, if I were to, give, absolute support to the Ministry of Staff, Technology and so on. But I don't think this Council of Ministers' meeting has started with the departments' equipment, and it seems to me that logic is in Ministers' equipment. I will also say that the way the Council of Ministers behaves falls short of how we behave in Parliament. I mean, just that part of the afternoon debate, I didn't want to answer, it didn't look like Parliament. If the Council of Ministers makes a decision to buy three 200,000 cars or the 200,000-dollar presidency, that's half a million marks, and I'm telling you that Parliament's leadership is being driven in mareis, that I've been driving my car for five years, I've been the highest state official in this country for five years, or most of all, and I've never raised that question here in Parliament. This is where the policy of equipping ministers and cabinets is being conducted, I don't mean specifically, I apologize to the cabinet and the Ministry of Minister Čolak, I thank you for being here today, but I am talking about logic, which is dominant, and I would like it to be the other way around. To be equipment, I'm going to have the ministries right now, and I think you're going to have the absolute support of this Parliament, and I'm going to give that support myself and, of course, I have nothing against it, and this other dimension is being built in without being excessive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8643	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić and we have another Mr. Martin Raguž reported, and then we will end the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8644	Dearly respected colleagues, respected ministers, respected guests, believe me, I have read this material and I know the materials, it is the Plan of Measures and Actions to improve the security institutions in BiH and this one material they delivered, I am delivering information on the Agency's work for the period from 6 October to 15 May 2003. Let me be very brief, but it seems to me, with certain suggestions. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Minister for being here today and respecting this House, to attend a meeting like this and, on the other hand, consider that everything I say is well-intentioned suggestions, which I can give and improve certain things. I don't think a plan of measures can be taken without a full assessment and full analysis. The second thing that is very important is to call something inconclusive without more precise goals, methods, content of the holder and deadlines of the activities. Thirdly, it would be irresponsible of this parliament to adopt this as some kind of plan, but in all this I think that this plan of measures and actions can be adopted, i.e. 85 can be adopted as a plan of measures and actions to improve the work of the Ministry of Security and the Information and Protection Agency. That's why we think that, here's all this discussion today, I think they're giving one instruction and I accept what you Mr. Minister said to prepare one complete piece of information for nine months, which would, right now, be carrying one full analysis that we would include, please let us say that the police in entities have done extremely big jobs in the last year. We need to get as MPs information that the operations are a macro-joint goal, etc. We have to say that DGS police have ties to neighbouring countries, I don't know Albania and Romania. Therefore, we should state what is what it is, but we should also do an analysis of what is not good in this system and what measures you are proposing to enter, so I suggest that this analysis be done which you would have provided to this Parliament with a single assessment of the exact timing, date, carrier-executor, and you will have full support, precisely on the part which Mr Špirić has now spoken of that this ministry and the Agency as well as all other institutions that deal with these things, in this House, have, believe me, the greatest support of... So, I'm just suggesting that this is called a plan of measures and actions to improve work, because this is nothing else, because you don't have any deadlines, not one perpetrator, or, I'd say, a necessary amount of financial resources with improvement. We must also conclude that a well-equipped organization is still not doing an effective organisation. That would require a plan, or a better said programme, to say what should be improved, and on the basis of the creation of a plan of funds and all of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8645	Thank you. Mr. Raguž Martin.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8646	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, here, on the trail of what we said this morning, or what most MPs were saying about the integrity of this House, I think this is a chance to confirm, that on the subject that we've scheduled, we're looking for an extraordinary session on this subject, you know what the occasion, Azra has elaborated, I wouldn't repeat. I think it is good that we have this debate today and, without the help of some elements, we may not have enough input or data, I think that, however, Parliament is taking one step, based on these proposals, which have come from the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security to begin to deal more seriously with this problem. I'd say two things. First, BiH is currently, no matter what we think, the fact that the security situation has improved and that we have better results in the functioning of some elements such as DGS is low on the safety list, especially when some of these issues are such as human trafficking, women, drugs, weapons, etc. You know all of our weaknesses and that's one dimension of this security spectrum. The second dimension is the safety of people, or every man in BiH, so here are the returnees and everything else. 86 So, we need to make efforts on this plan to reach a system that would guarantee, indeed, an improvement in not only BiH's position, but full confidence in the institutions and security in these areas and in this country. So I think that we can support this plan of measures, of course, that he could not have been consistent until the end, especially when it comes to some deadlines, but I should be constantly one of the conclusions of this House, at least three months of dealing with this issue, and I would say here that the Council of Ministers should take responsibility within what time it will establish the functions of the ministry as a whole and that deadline should be within this plan of measures. You're my suggestion, is it three, whether it's six, but let's know it's also responsible for meeting that deadline. So we also give support to both the Ministry and the Minister and the Council to do so, but obviously it can no longer be delayed that it is not filled, not to people or other instruments, and obviously something needs to be done on that plan. As for the position of other security elements in this system, Mr Špirić spoke about the agency's position. She's currently part of the ministry. So the legal solution is what it is. I think that a resorient ministry and council should lay down a structure, within existing solutions, then, possibly propose, whether or not this is enough concept, related to the position of the SIP, Interpol, Europol, Border Service, the very position of the BiH-level Ministry is one innovation that has such examples in the world, but therefore it opens up space for us to get one network, which could meet the needs that are ahead of us. So, in that sense, I think that one period of three to six months for the full establishment of the council and full positioning, in accordance with the Ministry Act of all these agencies, because I don't think we should single out only to the SIP. It is significant, but each of these elements is just as important and it must stand in some system, and that system should be this ministry or council, and, of course, we should have a control role and, it would be time to form and it would be one of the conclusions that we give ourselves a deadline until we form a committee to monitor this, and this is one proposal from the conclusions, and in that sense this conclusion that Parliament has a constant insight into this segment of security, I think it is very important. What I might be able to say is, yes, here, we have these criteria of entering Europe. We will, without a serious response to these security issues and these problems that we have co-operation in the region, I think the first shifts are being shown on that plan and we need to support them. Surely one of the basic criteria that will evaluate our ability to go that way. Regardless, therefore, of the possible indetermination of this plan, I think that Parliament should take them over, support them, to specify these two deadlines relating to the formation of a monitoring committee and the full establishment of the ministry with these two deadlines and a proposal to consider these issues continuously three months, I think we could conclude this debate today. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8647	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I am concluding the debate at this point on the agenda. 87 I, therefore, can draw two conclusions from all the discussions that have been heard here today. I think it's one dictator, I think itBešlagić the best, in my opinion, pictured it. Here is a dilemma for Mr. Bešlagić. Is this a plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in BiH, or is this a plan of measures and actions to improve the situation in the Ministry of Security, so the improvement of the situation at the Ministry of Security is certainly part of the measures to improve the security situation in BiH, so that we could lead the debate, but I agree that this document must also have a wider procedure with measures, deadlines, carriers. I think the minister is fully aware of that fact and, I think it's a good proposal, so, and then I suggest the conclusion accordingly. First, to adopt this plan of measures and actions to improve the security situation in BiH, adopted by the Council of Ministers, and drugi, to task the Council of Ministers to make up for us in nine months 2003 a complete information on the security situation in BiH, with a plan of measures, activities, deadlines and carriers to improve the security situation in BiH. I think it would be a reflection of the full debate today and that in that way we would actually adopt this is an effort, of course, by the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers. So, in this way, they also gave credit to what was done, and, of course, they also respected the demands of all of us, who think it should be both broader and more concrete, as colleagues here have said. I think those two dots would be enough and, colleagues when I say, I mean me and Azra when I tell my colleagues, certainly both on Sead and Ruža and Fatim, Nadžida, etc. I'm putting in motion a conclusion on the vote. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? – 2 So, like this, 30 are present in the House of Messengers, 28 were voted against – there were no messengers – 2 were abstentions. So in this majority of these, we have both a general and an entity parliamentary majority. I find that we've adopted this conclusion from these two points. I'd only ask for one thing. Don't get out of the O.R., 30-second college consult on the follow-up of this 15th session of this house. Considering it's now 17 hours and 50 minutes. Given that we have today done 17 of these important points of the agenda, estimating, therefore, that the next point, the point that requires, is to consider BiH's strategy for implementing the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, I think it would be inappropriate for it to be able of 30 MPs and in this state when, the Council of Ministers has provided the assistant minister here, however, I think that it should be the least minister, and the minister is absent, so that, therefore, this item of the agenda should be paid full attention and therefore the College proposes. 88 That by the end of this session we now do the 20th item of the agenda, which is the selection of three members in the joint committee of both homes to achieve agreement, then, 21st and 22nd, these are ratifications and the 23rd point report of the Joint Commission on the Law on Education. This is what we must do, we are bound by the deadline, and then we should stop the session and continue the session, most likely in the middle of the seventh month, of course, and we will schedule the 16th, but before that we will conclude the continuation of this session, at which we would have the 18th session, which is: Considering BiH's strategy for implementing the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, then, point 19 of the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on Visits to Refugees and Asylum Centres in BiH, 24th point, which is related to the Council of Ministers' Information, relating to the Vc Corridor, we certainly do not have a representative of the Council of Ministers here and 25th Point, relating to the request of Mr Gligorić, that Parliament is apparent about the appointment of the BiH Public Advocate. So that would be four points that wouldn't end today and, in the next session, we would continue with the 15th session, end these four points and end the session and, of course, start with the 16th session, it will be most likely in mid-July. I don't think it would be appropriate for us to be in this situation today, after the whole agenda, in a state where we have 30 MPs. We have a quorum, and when we do not have, however, the most competent people from the Council of Ministers, we are considering a BiH strategy concerning the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. Do you accept the College's proposal? Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Well, then, let's do it the way we agreed. So now we're going to the 20th point of the agenda. Ad.20. The selection of three members in the common domain of both homes, with a view to reaching an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act, is adopted in different texts, which requires the adoption of a consensus on the same text. From the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission are proposed gentlemen: Martin Raguž, Miloš Jovanović and Elmir. Who's up for this proposal? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? How many are there? I find that with 32 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We're going to the 21st point of the agenda. 89 Ad.21. Giving consent to ratification: a) Amended and re-established development loan agreement A project for exporting BiH enterprises and the International Development Association If there is no debate, who is in favour?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8648	If I may, the commission considered everything thoroughly this morning and gave it a positive, you have it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8649	So, the commission's report exists.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8650	Well, here's the Šefik doesn't say that, so I had to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8651	Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I understand that we've given consent, please, a little attention to finish the session, to do this part of the job, please. That we have agreed to ratify the amended and re-established 32 vote Development Loan Agreement, with no votes against and without abstentions. ( b) Who is to give consent to the ratification of the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism Who is in favour? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I agree that we have agreed to ratify the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. c) Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH Who is for? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Again, with 32 votes, I agree unanimously with no votes against and without abstentions, the memorandum of understanding between the European Community and BiH has been ratified. 90 e) General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe Who Is For? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find that unanimously with 32 votes in favour, Nikola and Martine, I ask you, with 32 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, we have agreed to ratify the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe. We're going to agenda 22. Ad.22. Giving consent to the cancellation of bilateral agreements between BiH and the Czech Republic: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic of 22 May 2003 Who is in favour? I explained at the beginning of the session why it was. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I realise that with 32 votes in favour, without votes and without abstention, we unanimously agreed to cancel a bilateral agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic since 22 May 2003. b) The Treaty on trade and navigation between the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenians and the Republic of Czechoslovakia since 14 November '28. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any glimmers? I find that with 33 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, we have agreed to cancel the bilateral agreement of the Trade and Navigation Treaty between the Kingdom of Serbs, Hrvat and Slovenians and the Republic of Czechoslovakia since 14 November 1928. c) Agreements on co-operation to combat violations of customs and foreign regulations from 12 November 1976 Who is for? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that, unanimously without votes against, without abstentions from 33 votes, we have given consent to the cancellation of the bilateral agreement, the agreement on co-operation to combat violations of customs and foreign regulations since 12 November 1976. 91 Ad.23. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, means during the day the Joint Commission succeeded in meeting and agreeing the same text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. You've already received the Joint Commission report. This is the President of the Commission, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. There is only one technical error in Bosnian. Please come out for a pay phone and say it in a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you have observed this very lucidly, but it is a clear printing error, where the report in the Bosnian language says, namely, that at the session held on 27.06.2003, the Joint Commission reached full agreement that of the amendments which were subject to the alignment it accepted 120 amendments. Of course, it's not 120, it's 10, and it refuses 2 amendments, etc. In versions in Croatian and Serbian, there are no printing errors. Therefore, it is the only technical error, and take the rest as indicated. And, another note, the commission member was Dr Halid Genjac, but for some other valid reasons he was absent, but in the course of what the Commission decided and I can say from this place that he too is behind this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8653	I thank the President of the Commission, chairman of the Joint Commission to Mr Ceman. So, the report you got. The Commission has agreed. We're voting on the report now. Who's for the Commission's report? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 33 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. In this way, we have practically received this law, this report should only be adopted by the House of Peoples at a session on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with our conclusion, and on a proposal from the College, at this moment I am interrupting the work of the 15th session of the House of Representatives. We have four points left, of which, a particularly important point of strategy, is related to Annex VII. We'll continue this in the middle of the month, most likely on 16th of July. Thank you very much. Then we'll have an appointment for the 16th session of this house. Thank you very much. 92 We continue the 15th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd ask everyone present to turn off their cell phones, and we can work normally. I welcome all present MPs and guests. Our regular guests and those who participate in the work and follow the work of this home are invited to continue our session. According to the Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are currently 35 or 36 MPs present in the hall. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović is in a bad mood, she needs to enter the O.R. any minute. So far, they are not present, and Mr Muratović is in the building. So there are 37 practically MPs present. Mr. Nakaš will be a little late. Gosodin Lagumdžija, I have no notice for him. A little late, isn't it? Okay. Mr Mladen Potočnik justified today's absence and Mr Jusufović Munib, according to the Secretariat's announcement, will also be absent only from the beginning of this session. So we expect a full, practical quorum, although we have a quality quorum now that we can continue to work quality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, from last session, we have not realised the following points of the agenda. Review of the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, 2. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to BiH refugee asylum centres; 3. Report by the Council of Ministers, i.e. information from the Council of Ministers on the Vc corridor we requested at the last session, on the establishment of the agenda; 4. Information and takeover of the stand in connection with the election of BiH's state public defender, which is a point also included in the 15-session agenda. In order to facilitate your monitoring, I remind you that this is the 18th,19th,24th and 25th period of the 15th session's agenda. We're moving on. There's 38 of us in the O.R. now. Dr Nakaš has joined. So we move to the 18th point of the agenda. 93 Ad.18. Consideration of the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement We will, just to give a brief note, once we have completed this 15th session, have been scheduled immediately after its completion and the 16th session of the House of Representatives. We'll take a short break and start working on the 16th session. So we're on the 18th point of the agenda. You, ladies and gentlemen, have previously received the Strategy, as well as the penitentiary of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, which has considered this material and proposed to our home the adoption of certain conclusions. Before we open the debate, I would like to ask the Minister for Refugees, Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum at the Council of Ministers Mirsad Keb to address us, after which the President of our Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum Mr Elmir Jahić would also address us, after which we would open the debate. I call upon Minister Keba Mirsad to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8655	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategy for implementing Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, done by the Ministry of Human Rights, the refugees, is the first joint framework document at BiH level, which plans the necessary actions and reforms to finalise one of the most important annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The special importance with the Srategy gives the fact that it has been accepted by both resolute entity institutions and by the structures of the international community in BiH. The Council of Ministers held its first session, held on 3 February. discussed and adopted the Strategy, while the BiH Presidency adopted the Strategy at a session on February 10th. The strategy is also supported by the political directors of the Peace Implementation Council in Brussels on 30.01. The strategy, therefore, is the first framework, joint document at BiH level since the signing of the General Framework Agreement for Peace. This document points to the basic objectives and directions of strategic action, which need to be taken in order to ensure that Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement is fully implemented in the next four-year period. Still in BiH, as basic strategic goals, appear. 1. Completing the process of returning refugees from BiH and displaced persons to BiH, 2. Completion of the process of reconstruction of housing units for return purposes, 3. Realisation of return of property, housing rights, 4. Ensuring sustainable return conditions and the reintegration process in BiH. As for completing the process of returning refugees from BiH and displaced persons, it should be said that BiH has over a million more refugees and displaced populations. Up to today, about a million refugees were in the 94 lands. All the numbers used before the new census should be considered very realistic, as the BiH population's fuctuations during work and after the conclusion of the Dayton Agreement were extremely prominent and very difficult to reach fully reliable indicators. Independently, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is a very reliable database, which is regularly complemented and combined with relevant bases of international institutions and other selections of data in BiH. From these databases, it is clear that more than 400,000 displaced persons and refugees still want to return. Of these, about 100,000 people outside BiH are mostly within the countries of the region: the Republic of Croatia, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the countries of Western Europe of Scandinavia and the overseas countries. Within BiH, about 300,000 more displaced persons want to return to their pre-war residences. In order to improve this process, it is necessary to further support the process of reconstruction and implementation of property laws. As regards the completion of the reconstruction process of housing units for returnees' needs, it should be said that the funds intended for the reconstruction for the needs of return from year to year are decreasing, and the interests and number of returns are on the rise, and reliable indicators on the needs of this plan need to be achieved. The human rights ministry, through its databases and in collaboration with resolute international institutions, has found it necessary to restore about 50,000 housing units in BiH for the purpose of returning, and combining with the implementation of property regulations. For such a demanding job, it takes four years of strategic period to secure close to 900 million KM. In previous years, around 100 million KM has been allocated to these purposes by all institutions at all levels of government in BiH and, on occasion, so many international community funds. With the almost reviving of the Fund for Return and Guarantee in order to spend the funds, intended for return, planned and organised, rational and controlled by the Fund Committee, we think it is possible to secure these funds for return. More importantly, we have strong guarantees that the international community will place its funds through this fund. Third question, realising the return of property rights. With regard to the implementation of property requirements in BiH, the region has made the most progress, especially in the last two years. Today's rate of realisation of property claims is around 85% at BiH level, and it confirms that in collaboration with the institutions of the international community, we have made a realistic plan to finally realise this activity and that this plan is precisely resulting in the final phase of the process. According to the current, very well-founded OSCE assessments, only five municipalities in BiH will not be able to fully implement property laws until the planned deadline. With that, we have now, while still time-consuming the process of helping these municipalities to achieve this important process as well as other municipalities in BiH. In order to achieve the above-mentioned strategic objectives, it is necessary to monitor the following basic strategic actions: 95 1. Legal reform and compliance, 2. Structural and organisational reforms, 3. Training and putting into function a single database 4. The creation of conditions for a sustainable return As regards legal reform of harmonisation of the rules, we thought, above all, of the need to adopt new and amend and supplement existing rules at BiH level. First of all, it is working to amend and supplement BiH refugee laws and displaced persons in BiH, which would clearly determine the authority of the Human Rights Ministry and refugees and resolution entity ministries. This would be a roof regulation, which in a uniform manner would regulate the status and other issues of displaced persons and refugees throughout BiH. The harmonisation of entity laws with the State Law on Refugees, as well as the adoption and necessary harmonisation of sublaws, would be the next objective, following the entry into force of the state roof law. In the area of legal reform, there is certainly a particularly important issue of harmonisation of the rules in the fields of education, health, pension-inhabitation, social land allocation, application of property regulations and others. As far as structural organisational reforms are concerned. At the very beginning of the application of this strategy, a pre-grey, expensive and inefficient administration, which deals with the issue of return and reconstruction must be reorganised. The aim is to strengthen the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, in order to be able to coordinate in close cooperation with the restrictive ministry and institutions in entities and Brcko District, directly and through the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons, all activities on return and reintegration. These are very important reforms. We want to strengthen the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons, to form a Fund for Returns, but also to redecorate the structure of entity ministries in order to be effective and ready to accept new responsibilities. And, finally, training and putting and putting into function a single database. This is a very important issue, because by forming a quality, unique database, at BiH level, it will prevent previous abuses against using reconstruction aid and other assistance for displaced persons and returnees. This would make it easier to recognize the real priorities and direct the remaining aid to where it was intended. In this respect, the intention of carrying out the deregistration of displaced persons and the update of indicators is also to ensure that the records and requests for assistance are removed from those whose right does not belong to them. This and a number of other issues have been raised by the Ministry as fundamental principles in the strategy in question. I propose that this respectable home support the state strategy and make its contribution to its addition and implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8656	I thank the Minister of Human Rights Mr. Mirsad Keba. I call on the president of our parliamentary committee for the area, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum of Mr Elmir Jahić to take the floor. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8657	The Human Rights and Immigration Commission and the asylum of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly discussed this issue, therefore, the Annex VII Implementation Strategy. In our work we have opted for one, perhaps a new method in the work of parliamentary committees. In fact, it was actually a joint session of our parliamentary commission and commission, or entity committees, that are considering this issue. Thus, in addition to the members of our commission, therefore, members of the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of Refugees and Displaced Persons of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on the Return of Refugees and Displaced Persons to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH. So, four commissions worked together to discuss this issue, and Mr. Mirsad Kebo was present at this joint session. I would like to say, in fact, that this way of work was initiated by the peds of the National Assembly of the RS, who also at the entity level, so in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska considered this strategy and reached appropriate conclusions. After further discussion, therefore, following the inclusion of all representatives of the entity commissions etc. The following conclusions were adopted. I will try to be as brief as possible, so I will certainly not read all the conclusions, but I will set out, in my opinion, those most capitalistic in some narrow form. It is safe to welcome the urge to continue, in a systematic and comprehensive manner, the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement for the adoption of this strategy and, in particular, when it concerns, the transfer of powers and tasks to domestic institutions. So, from foreign to domestic institutions. The BiH strategy for the implementation of Annex VII is an extremely good basis for the implementation and resolution of Annex VII, and we have asked that this strategy be referred to parliamentary procedure, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, here, we are discussing it today. Then, we asked entity proposals, too, to discuss, as I said in the RS, it was already discussed, and at the level of committees in the Federal Parliament and, too, we asked that this document be returned to the Council of Ministers for some necessary adjustments, in order to achieve a broadly acceptable and effective solution. We believe that structural and organisational reforms should be implemented most urgently, especially through the creation of a single return fund. That, by the way, is mentioned in this strategy. In fact, it was, by the way, a Dayton obligation to form a return fund at the state level. Here, we're just running these activities right now to form that fund. What's particularly problematic seems to have come, so we need to look to intensify the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Agreement. One of the key issues and key remarks on this strategy is that everyone agrees that the return, namely the implementation of Annex VII, is one of the most important 97 political and social, economic, national and any other issues in BiH. So, it requires full engagement of all levels of government. This should enable all levels of government, as part of their ability to help implement Annex VII throughout BiH. In this strategy, it is predicted that the assistance of Anescu VII, namely the implementation of Annex VII, is possible only within the entity. In this way, there's one, let's say, ugly message that they're concreteizing entity boundaries on the one hand, and on the other hand, they're talking about a lack of funds. So we believe that it is necessary to enable any level of government that can help return to another entity, another canton and as it is already decided. It was, at the end of last year, one tendency was to declare its implementation in this year, Annex VII. In this way, Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement is identical with the implementation of property laws. Annex VII is not equal to the implementation of property laws, but, therefore, in Annex VII, in addition to the implementation of property laws, it also implies the reconstruction of devastated, destroyed objects, the construction of infrastructure, the return of people, the construction, the return of people to jobs, etc. Therefore, only by solving these problems can Annex VII be considered consistent and implemented in all areas. It is also recommended that the BiH Council of Ministers consider the possibility of finding additional donations or BiH's debt on this basis by obtaining favourable long-term loans from the Council of Europe Development Bank, as well as redistributing budgets in the Budget of the Joint Institutions of BiH and some additional sources of funding. And, in the end, which I would have, a conclusion that I would have specifically singled out. Therefore, the most urgent must respect the deadlines for the adoption of laws or the harmonisation of sublaws in the fields of education, health care, PIs, the application of property regulations, and the consistent implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality and equality of the peoples, i.e. the implementation of amendments to the entity constitutions. So, first of all, it means hiring returnees, hiring returnees to state institutions, therefore, in municipalities in the areas of health care, education, judiciary, etc. So, that we also consistently respect the amendments to the entity constitutions. So that would be those conclusions of our commission, as I said, we were working in an extended composition and I am asking Parliament to support these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8658	I thank Mr. Jahić, President of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate. I haven't got a report yet, but here's who wants to talk. Mr. Ćeman then Mr. Belkić and Mr. Raguž. That's for now. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8659	My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed presidency, I've come out to say two or three things. First, of course, I support and evaluate the very important adoption of such a document, and in any case this is a great day, however, for this House, that is, for Parliament as well as for all those who deal with this problem and who are obliged to address the issues, which were, in this document and which is bound by the Dayton Peace Agreement, that is, the Constitution of BiH. I also support the Commission's proposals, which we have just heard from the chairman, and I would just like to point out one moment, for which, in contact with the people who have already returned, which could also improve these processes should be removed. Banks in entities have in their available capital from funds intended for lending, among other things, those needs for which, by nature, things have, above all, returnees, a very, very prominent need. The problem, however, is that banks, I have information that it is so in RS that they do not accept it as a loan insurance, such as establishing a mortgage on real estate that returnees have there. We can understand, perhaps, that banks have the right to implement their policy as they wish, etc. but, if this is not acceptable, let's say, a loan in any, for purposes that would improve the return, or a sustainable return, is not accepted, let's say, by the real estate of the people, who are in those premises or, if they don't accept it, I consider it a wrong policy and I would like a comment, perhaps from those who are competent to speak here today, i.e. in some of the measures on which it would work, among other things, the Resort Ministry removes such deviation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8660	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić, and let Mr. Raguž be prepared. After them, we have registered Gopds Špirić, Đedović and Živković for the time being, here, Mr Jovanović, and we will continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8661	Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course the Party for BiH Club is also absolutely supporting the adoption of such an important document, regretting that it was not adopted 5-6 years ago, as it raises the question of how much capacity it now has and how much it can introduce to the state of BiH in full responsibility when it comes to this extraordinary question. But here, therefore, we support this document now, because we are convinced that I am a state through all mechanisms, through my laws, respect for international conventions, etc. can provide respect for human rights in full capacity and we have been saying this as a party for six to seven years, but here we have in some way opened this process today. When it comes to the document itself, we thought we'd give a few suggestions to the Ministry. In the document itself, the NGO is only mentioned in one place, as far as we could see. Where there is a way of using funds from 99 funds, where the NGO is in some way being introduced into setting priorities etc. We think that the non-governmental sector should have a more noticeable place in the overall strategy, especially in this action plan, those before, representatives of these stakeholders, or organised NGOs, have, here, addressed several initiatives to today's meeting. You have, probably all received a letter from the Federation of Refugees of BiH, a letter from the Association of Staying, you have recommendations from a round table, that is, at the Council of Europe Forum "Learn each other", held in Srebrenica, where it is particularly insisting that the situation of the Srebrenica be discussed and I think that Srebrenica, of course, should, with the support of these recommendations, find a special place in the Strategy. Furthermore, when it comes to the section, which speaks of the establishment of a single database. It is not clear whether there is an ambition to establish a database for all projects that are being implemented in BiH. To synchronise, to know exactly who's leading them, how much is it, according to which target group they're going to, because we're all witnessing parallelism and irrational spending of funds. If this strategy does not foresee it, we suggest that they are necessarily and accurately recorded and kept records of all projects that are implemented under the support company because there are a number of different types of projects, etc. They are not only in the reconstruction of the housing fund, but in various educations, etc. and they should be subject to some opinion of this state commission, establishing priorities and NGOs, etc. And, finally, this project tomorrow, we got a little bit, so to speak, interested and taught certain experiences related to the implementation of funds through UNDPI. We are interested in whether the UNDPI is the implementer of this project because we have received information that it is 8 million KM, of which 4 million would go from the BiH state. If the UNDIP is the implementer, we are making an observation and we think that it should not be the implementer, but rather the implementation of funds through this committee, that is, through priorities as this strategy provides. So we're against the special position of UNDPI, when it comes to implementation. So, here, I'm done. We support this document, with the recommendation to treat these initiatives of NGOs, to support in some way, of course for those we consider to make sense, especially this initiative, related to Srebrenica, the status of Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8662	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr. Martin Raguž. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8663	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this is indeed an important topic and an important document and, behold, on behalf of the HDZ-Demokršćanin coalition, I will speak a few words, and I will say a few words from personal experience, since I have been dealing with this issue for many years. 100 So, first, it is good that we have a document like this at BiH level, with a finding, which Mr Belkić has already said, that we should have had before, but what, according to that people's, spilled milk, you can't put it back in a glass. You should look ahead. Let's look ahead and see what from this perspective, from this position, can really be done seriously for the realization, as we all say, of one of the most significant annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I will also have one critical review, without the intention of criticizing anyone, because I think that is such an approach to the need to improve this document and the way this document can be realized. What I can say is that the strategic goals are well set in this document, which means that the process of returning refugees from BiH and displaced persons should be completed, the 2005 deadline issue. - 2006. I don't think that deadline should be closed in 2005. I think it's an open process. It should be tried within these deadlines, but let's not limit the issue of the situation in BiH, stabilising opportunities, its integration intentions, will open up the possibility that perhaps another generation will participate in the process of reintegration and reviving all areas of BiH. And that's why I think it should be seen as a strategic approach, fairly in mind. The other thing here, which is set as a strategic goal, is the reconstruction of housing units for the purpose of returning and, in my view, it can only be in the context of a somewhat wider elaborated overall perspective of these people's lives, because I think it's one of the weak parts of this strategy, which is not an anticipated in which circumstances and life assumptions these people need to return to these possibly restored housing units. I think that these political, social and legal and all other cultural, scientific and other conditions here should have been significantly more qualitatively accepted, or, at least indicated, and if that is not the role of the ministry, of course, but it should be indicated as one assumption that the reconstruction of housing units, without one such approach, is not enough. She's good, but she's not good enough. Return of property and housing rights, as the next strategic goal, naturally, and there should be public talk about some indicators, used in the media and in the public and from the most responsible officials, which means return of property, here we heard the best in the region. It probably is, and that percentage's moving somewhere around 80%. Now it can vary a few percent in the Federation and in the RS, but there is no mention of the actual return of people to the return of property, and it is drastically bad compared to those indicators and I have an indicator, if I do not make mistakes that the return of people is 20% and that the return of property is 70%. So we're focusing on, I don't know if, in the Federation, it's no better, but it's not optimal either. So these are indicators that would have to be, also here elaborated, because these are actual data on the return. Third, fourth, I'm sorry, but I think that in strategic goals, we should focus our priorities much better. I agree, and here I was at the invitation of the Council of Europe and NGOs at the round table in Srebrenica, I was also at some other round tables these days, which were organised, let's say one was on the return of the Hrvat, which was 101 organised on behalf of the BiH presidency, chairing the BiH presidency and at a number of other round tables. So there is a need, I think, for certain areas and regions to focus, preferably and more precisely in the Strategy. I think Srebrenica certainly falls under that priority, but I also think that Bosnian Posavina, too, must, given the way and the amount of destruction and damage to living and living space there, unfortunately has not been treated so far. It would be particularly important to say why some of the places in BiH and don't understand this by any politicisation, nor by calling anyone, but simply as a factography, are double-tarded by both the international community and certain institutions. I think that if we want to be square and we need to bring that element into the Strategy and as responsible people. So I am running that the ministry, in the operationalisation of the Strategy and in defining the choice of users who will receive support for reconstruction, must take account. And, I mean, not that he has to, but he has a lot of responsibility for it. If Sgtrategi set Sgtrategi up in this way, he must take responsibility and take responsibility, and we as Parliament need to make a contribution to create assumptions that this strategy, along with the suggestions given by the Commission and which will be heard today, will indeed become one document that will pulsate both in life and in public, and not one of the papers that we will adopt and then everything goes again, life goes on in its course. So, focusing certain spaces in a priority way, not presupposing exclusively that I am now determining who it is. We can use the artifacts to see which spaces they've been setting up so far so let's make it more critical, in any part of both the Federation and RS, but that there are some who are, there could be political arguments about consciously ennobled, but that's one serious topic. It should be recorded and kept in mind. What, when I was brief, I was the first minister and I was brief and I was working on the foundation of this ministry. The core lever was supposed to be the return fund. I really don't know why that fund hasn't lived since its founding and decision-making for nearly three years. I wish there was one broader elaborate why it didn't come back to life and how that fund should and can give its function. I think that's missing in the Strategy, and believe me, the funds of the international community, that's also said in the Strategy, that's the minister right, said there will be less and less for this part, and this issue will remain a burden on us in BiH. We will remain on the burden, and we have seen that for the reconstruction of 50,000 houses, only for the restoration of houses should 940 million KM be allocated over the next two or three years. It's gentlemen only houses. Where are the roads, where is the infrastructure, where are the conditions for schools, for living for health care, etc. So the strategic approach to the fund and the way in which the funds are provided, either through budget funds, but we know what the potential in our budgets and in entities and at the state level is, that they are minimal, but in any case the need to strengthen them, must foresee the possibility of BiH's credit debt this strategic document to reassociate this. If we can put ourselves in charge of some, not to say all the things, I think the question of insurance, the permanent right of people to return, every part where they want to return, must be a top priority and must calculate that lever of security and opportunity. What I would like to say further, I think there is still no readiness for the international community to truly transfer this return process and help BiH institutions to be the bearer of the project. The indicator of this is the fact that even a complete base of 102 data is not yet a complete function in the competent ministry without talking about how donors are animated and how donor assets are allocated and where they are directed and how much of it is eaten by the administration either by government or non-governmental organisations. These are also very important elements and transparency of the process should be part of the strategy and the way the ministry will lead to the implementation of this strategy, communicating both with the public and with this Parliament with a precise database, both on people and on resources. What I would particularly like to say is there are some institutional decisions, such as whether the federal ministry has its offices within the RS or the competent ministry, the RS competent ministry, within the Federation. I think that practice should stop and that every person within his jurisdiction is doing his job, being a pure constitutional structure, which is responsible and knowing who is responsible and under what conditions. I think that, too, the Strategy should promote this approach, and it is known what competences are in that sense, because I am afraid that further confusion and avoidance of responsibility are generated through one such approach. And let me conclude, therefore, this is what I consider to be the beginning of a serious discussion and the hard work of this bill and of the Council of Ministers on one of the most important topics of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I consider this process not completed absolutely. In some stages, it's only at the beginning, in some elements only at the beginning. I said in which and if we want to contribute responsibly to the realisation of both the Peace Agreement and the integration of BiH, this should indeed be the highest priority and issue of our credibility both in this parliament and in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8664	I thank Mr. Raguž. Rijeka has Mr. Nikola Špirić, let Mr. Ibrahim Đedović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8665	Fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, Honorable Guests, I, of course, read the document with special attention under the heading "BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement" and in that sense I will speak in a way, without having to call anyone to the line, I will say what I think is good in the document and I will say what I think is missing in this document. I think that in relation to the content of the document, the title of the strategies is too much of a word, because I am convinced that this document and these measures will not solve the problems of refugees and dissipated and will not bring the realization of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement to the satisfaction of those for whom this strategy is being written and brought, but before I say flaws, I want, of course, to say that it is a good thing that the Resolute Ministry and our colleague, Minister Kebo, went public with this document and I think that a lot of effort has also been made to make this document. But, ladies and gentlemen, write a document related to 103 realisation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and in this case after 8 or 7 years, since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, there has been no valid statistical indication behind which one can stand, so it is descriptive to deal with the troubles of the most vulnerable part of the BiH population. In that sense, I draw your attention to the first page, where it is said that the return to the Federation is 74.19% in RS 23.8%. I claim that this information is not correct. Not to praise the Federation of BiH, but to deprive the RS authorities of the work they have been paid for, but to inform part of the international organisations involved in this job. These are UNHCR data. What's the state doing? What are the entities doing? Do they have their data? Do they know who they helped? You know, at least, how much help has been given to people how much money has been laundered on Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement? Does anyone know how much funds have entered BiH based on different donations, different budget items at different levels of government in BiH? Nobody knows. So do we have a valid initial analysis to make a strategy to solve this problem? I agree with my colleague Raguž when he says the return of property is not the same as the real return. This country is threatened with such authorities, to legalize its further decommissioning and division. Many who have returned property in one way or another have renewed it, this property is the subject of trade and sales today and we are entering the final stage of BiH's ethnic division through the realisation and Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Should anyone be convinced that the BiH capital, which should be an example of a return to realisation, multiethnicity is not at that level. Should we be convinced that other cities that carry epithets of large or major cities are not at the level of one who expects an international community from us, but are not at the level of our story of BiH's path to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. I'll be free to say it. Srebrenica is the biggest tragedy in BiH, but I am convinced from the point of view of Annex VII's implementation that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Grahovo and the Drava are the biggest disgrace of government. It's the biggest mess. So should anyone be persuaded if delegations go there, if people see the returnees go by, that there's talk about electricity as a problem for people to stay at all. It doesn't matter if it's Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat. If there's anyone, does this strategy have a solution to it? I don't think so. I know the ministry had different limitations writing this strategy. The only thing about basic, in my opinion, restriction is a source of resources. A strategy that has no defined clear means cannot be implemented. We know that the current level of economic activity of BiH at different levels cannot cover what the Strategy contains, and in the Strategy we already write that part of the international activity versus Annex VII is in decline. Many have helped, many have washed what they wanted, many do not like the way we work, because we do not seem to justify why the people chose us and easily eroded us, therefore, the financial attention of various international donor institutions. It says here on page 18 that it takes 900 million to rebuild 50,000 housing units. And now we're coming up with that dilemma that my colleague Raguž was talking about. It's just rebuilding housing units. What does a real return to reconstruction mean? how much does this cost on page 2 of employment, health care, pensions, education, security, demining, electrification, etc. Five times as many ladies and gentlemen. So, the realization of this strategy, in order for BiH's tissues to be slowly assembled and people to come together, costs 5 billion to the soul. Why was the absence of the international community to form a single fund at the level of the state? Shall we ask someone? Will we at least have a report on whether all these funds were spent on the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement? Does anyone know what's gotten into this country? No Niko has the strength to ask. Is it God's gift to be, what's been given, like he shouldn't be interested in anyone's why and how it could have been more rationally spent? So what I see is missing from this strategy is a source of resources to talk about a realistic and sustainable return and everything that follows. The other thing that worries me and what's particularly important, we're building a strategy on the '91 list. So we're making this strategy on the '91 list. And if it says that we have 500,000 people out there, who, on different grounds, stayed out there, and that 300,000 were killed in an accident. So this country has lost millions of people. They're unrealistic, but all this stuff that I'm talking about, it's looking for the state and state authorities' activity on other colossals, but I'm not going to talk about it. It is enough in this document, and I regret that the ministry did not install it in this document, because it would show that the country's path to European and Euro-Atlantic integration is related to reform, legal reform and harmonisation of regulations. How is it possible that what is called a strategy does not exist at least a request. That what is discriminatory by entity laws is removed. It is ladies and gentlemen of the 3rd Law on the termination of the law on the abandoned dwellings of the Federation of BiH, including amendments and additions to that law, which the ministry headed by Mr Mehmedagić has passed, and the Federation Parliament adopted, which extends the circle of people who are being discriminated. It's tied up. I know a lot of people know about military apartments. Do you think that if the House of Human Rights makes a decision to meet these people, and all the other authorities shut up and this strategy, it will come to the European Parliament's approval to rush us to Europe. But this strategy must be managed by the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Minister to warn the entity authorities to amend laws, which are, above all, anti-constitutional and which do not comply with the conventions for the protection of human rights, therefore, European conventions, but this strategy must contain. If possible, and now I don't know that this strategy is that we are changing with these supplements, I will support this document. If not possible, this cannot be called a strategy. A strategy that does not contain a pace of inflows and use of funds is not a strategy to address the problem. This is a list of good wishes, based on what the state ministry now has, and I don't think that, unless the plan, the way, the fund, the budgets, the credits, unless the funds are listed, after years, the resources are listed, unless they say what is discriminatory in the existing laws, that our Bosnianhergic poverty is not expected to be better time and in practice and, if this can be considered a good move by the ministry, the good will of the ministry, but I am not convinced that there will be radical developments on the ground, but without radical excerpts, we gentlemen and with this document are present at the ethnic division of BiH and we are preparing for BiH to complete the process, that people are doing the property to sell it. Some expect the price to rise, some are not already in BiH, etc. 105 If, therefore, this document can be completed with this request that the ministry is a state consciously discriminatory decision of the entity law. The Federation, which, for God's sake, is 75% back, and we know that in Sarajevo you can't find a Srbin and Hrvat for a significant charming function. As in Banja Luka or Mostar, the same problem exists, but we see the problem and are ready to solve it. People have come to own property in Sarajevo. It's their right to do what with it, but so much is going to be a self-sustainable return that people sell property and come back to, and that's precisely, this site that lacks a plan to solve: employment, health care, pensions, education, security, I added to electricity. Please have a delegation of the State Parliament, here to form it go, just to go to Graho's. Why do we keep our attention, I know for what reasons we're paying attention and I said the name what Srebrenica is, and do you think that by keeping our attention only on Srebrenica we're going to say this problem? We won't, but we need to be aware of that. Beans are fried ground. Woodchuck, go and see how $11,000 goes. The woodwork is the biggest victory after Dejton, a victory in peace. People go back to their own. The people who stayed there don't run out into the streets, there's no life for either one. I beg you, this strategy must have a way to solve problems. 90% of the woodwork is unelectrical in the 21st century. Will those people leave again? It's going to be an empty space, but that's what I'm saying is the shame of the Federation government. She has to be written here, unless we're going to be a little short, so this is a document for some other kind of use, but I don't want it to be him. So, with gratitude that the ministry has come out with this document and my proposal that these things, therefore, be complemented by this, which means we can count on, that we can tie the ministry to be responsible for politics and implementation. Which means the report in a year, you know, the entities didn't have the funds, the state doesn't have the resources, the international community is tired, the banks aren't giving you credit, and it's going to be that kind of report. Have we solved the problem? No, and the strategy has to contain that. So my proposal is to complement that and to supplement this warning to amend Article 3a. The country we're talking about, the accident of this country and 1,300 families for two years, to outwit whether the federal parliament and the ministry will remove that member or change it to amendments and make it worse and, I must tell you, I'm going to start a dispute before the Constitutional Court, I hope it'll be the first dispute we'll get, but unfortunately it's been lost for three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8666	Thank you. Mr Ibrahim Đedović, and let Mr Živković Milorad be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8667	Gentlemen of the chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished journalists, dear guests, I would also refer to a few sentences to a document that is before us called the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. 106 I would also express the same, not because of a pattern, a word of support to try to create a document of such a type, and, at the same time, I want to speak very openly and specifically, without the intention of demeaning or insulting anyone here in order to contribute to a document that can help us. Conceptually, I believe this document is unacceptable, for at least three reasons. First, there is no word in this document about the departure of people from BiH, I speak from war to today and from today until we do this. I don't think there's a strategy to implement the Dayton Peace Agreement without that category. Another thing about which, too, there is not a word about the fact, he said a little about it, fellow Špirić, how objectively we have people who were spinning. So, how much of it has been sold, how much rented, how much destroyed, I'm afraid we're taking part in the process of ethnic, or national, three-part cementing of BiH. Take any paper that contains ads, we'll be all clear. I think at least the assessment, I agree that we have no concrete data, but at least an assessment of where it is going and what we can stop it, if we want a multi-ethnic BiH. The third category, which is not a word of this document, is money. How much money has been invested so far to return to the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement? What are the sources? Where was it spent? What's the assessment that's been misused? Who abused, etc.? We're witnessing very frequent affairs, the means for that purpose went here, went there, there's no word here about it. Who out of all this trouble has benefited from this? I agree that it's hard because of this complexity of administration to get that data, but I think this document should contain it. So these are conceptual, I would say, reasons or areas, which I think should contain this document, because I think they would then be more realistic and appraisal and watch it all flow into the future. Content of the matter, I mean, a series of things aren't acceptable to me. I'll name a few. First, on page 5, I draw your attention, where it is said, i.e. from the assumption that these 100,000 refugees are primarily looking for a return to BiH. I don't think that's true and that we all know that's not true. Everyone out there, or 95% of them, scratches every possible way to stay there. We don't have to fool ourselves. Eh, how on the basis of that assessment, we're going to make a strategy, which is, quite diametrically, the opposite. We need to speak plainly. I agree, I wish they'd come. But let's see what we can do to at least a little lessen that difference between the desire of one and the other. The sledeći thing you know, as inefficient as we are, this number says that on page 6, more than 1,000 people work professionally on their way back. More than 1,000 people in BiH are working professionally on their return, based on the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. If we turn to the results of thousands of people's work and put it in a parallel with how many thousands are working on obstructions to never return and their struggle with each other. I think we're witnessing that it's still happening in this country and that we need to talk about it openly. 107 What we specifically say irritates me, I must be honest and say, here is Mr. Minister listening. Page 12 and look at the dates, gentlemen, March 2nd and 3rd of 1993 is the deadline for carrying out the mass of things. We speak here in the 7th month of 2003. I mean, something's wrong. Why did this come to me? In this letter of the Survival Association, they are appealing to all of us to form this fund unique and an account that should be based on this plan of action, already completed in the 3rd month of this year. So it's a complete discrepancy for me here, what I've seen, now that I'm not counting, it's including this action plan at the end of the document, where it's all supposed to be over by the 4th month. I'd like to hear and ask the minister what's been made of this? And, based on that, I will scold my conviction, whether it's done like this or not. So, what's supposed to be done in the 2nd and 3rd months of O.G. Indeed it is done, and what is not, why is it not? And, in order not to finish, I'm talking again, I'm saying, really with the desire to do something, I suggest, at least as a minimum, to initiate or which is what we're about to solve. I don't see any reason why it still stands out as a problem of treatment and retirement, of those who have returned from one entity to another, not to name anyone. I don't see that problem. I think it's in the power of people who decide and minimum what to do and that a man who comes back has the right to be treated and he has the right to receive his pension where he came from, and it's a matter of state apparatus to make it possible for them. I don't think there's much to be discussed and convinced of anyone else, and I suggest we act that way. The second proposal is to think about the money that would support these things that depend on us. We won't win money, and we can't scold the future. In that direction, I suggest that we study, the Council of Ministers study and see with the competent institutions in entities to consider excises on fuel, on alcohol, on cigarettes, to form a fund, which would finance the return and survival and the lives of people where they were before the war. That's prosthetic. This can be done quickly, and we can come up with funds that would specifically help these people. Here, I thank you for your attention and I apologize if I'm misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8668	Mr. Živković Milorad has his word. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8669	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I'll probably repeat something of what my predecessors said, but I'll try to make it concrete and translate it into initiatives and conclusions. So, as I understand it, this document is one living document, a tissue that can be modified but that is outdated. According to the data we received here, there are over 60% of property returns in RS, property laws. I already have data where it's over 80%. So that document is getting old. Some parts should be rewritten, especially in this introductory section. 108 On the other hand, it is unfortunate that seven years after Dejton, we are discussing Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, and for me, the question is why is that, and I think there are at least two reasons. One of the reasons is that politicians want and intend to deal with this troubled people, refugees, and hope in electoral, electoral times to manipulate and fill their mouths with stories of refugee returns and so forth. We as responsible people and politicians need to admit it. The second is at least a thousand people who are employed in these jobs. These thousands of people have an interest in extending their jobs in infinity. I think the strategy, as it's written here, should go in the opposite direction. It should go, not ministers, as you wrote for filling the place, systemizing the place, not, but for reducing the personnel, in order to bring the process to an end. Radically, if I demand the abolition of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, i.e. to be translated into a Directorate for Refugees and Displaced Persons, which should be done in due course, and turn the Agency for European Integration into a Ministry of European Integration. We only have V.D. these agencies. Do we want to go to Europe or do we always want to cheat on the position and story of refugees and displaced persons? In that sense, I will quote Mr. Minister: "All the razors used before the new list are relative and should be taken with the reserve" is what you said about this speaker. I'm suggesting a conclusion. That the Strategy, in that section, on the Action Plan and on the Central Database, determines that it is necessary to make a census in 2004. Well, isn't that our best base to do something about it? Isn't that our central database and that we don't agree here as many refugees as we do abroad? I think I'm going to give that conclusion to the chairman and I'm going to ask the chairman to put that conclusion to the vote at the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8670	Thank you. The word is Mr Miloš Jovanović. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8671	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here and I will join a large number of colleagues who have said that this document that we are discussing today is a solid basis, that the document is living that is dynamic, we welcome its adoption and we believe that it will continue in one qualitative way to address the problems of refugees, displaced and return. I wouldn't particularly get into the details, as far as the document is concerned, my colleagues have talked a lot about it, especially about the returnees' records, because it seems to me that different records are being kept in the RS and the Federation. I think there were concrete data, that some things that weren't true. 109 What we think should be done and that this document should be completed, that it would be acceptable for everyone. I, on behalf of the SDS MPs' club, will suggest a few conclusions. 1. We think in this document, that staying is not treated equally, as a basic human right to choose a place of life. I suppose we all know that the Dayton Maritime Agreement is also envisaged, specifically by aneks vi and aneks vi, meaning that, in addition to the return and replacement and the sale of assets, it means that the remaining is equally treated and, if we really want to solve these problems that we're talking about, I think that possibility should be treated evenly. Also, I don't think the problems of returnees and the return of property to Srbin refugees from the Republic of Croatia, who live in BiH today. We are witnessing that lately the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already taken some steps, but I think, regardless of the fact that this strategy, this document should also contain this problem. The Strategy also said that the reconstruction and reconstruction of about 50,000 objects was envisaged, but we believe that it should be stressed, however, how much funds will be allocated to which entity, because I think Mr Raguž was talking about double standards, because I should say in this way, so I escaped how much was invested in the Federation and how much in RS. What we also consider and ask is whether the transfer of powers to state authorities will lead to a significant increase in the state administration. I wish I knew. If that's gonna happen, then let me say, you should think about it. Furthermore, in order to ensure a sustainable return of pensioners, to ensure that pensioners receive pensions in the area where they return, which in the end stems from the decision of the House for Human Rights, which, it seems, was sonnetized in January 2003. What colleagues have been saying about the possibility of providing or obtaining some long-term loans, means, too, that we support, means specifically that BiH is in charge, in order to improve this return of people. It seems to me, which is not said and that I would particularly like to emphasise here, which is, in the end, foreseen by the Constitution of BiH, Article 2 of point 5 on the compensation of assets that cannot be recovered. We can here, a few examples already, and it's said, that there really is a lot of property that has been destroyed, that can't be returned. I would say, among other things, that I would not repeat what is said, specifically what is happening in Glamoc, that Malta is not, means that this polygon, which is made for the training of the SFOR unit and the Federation of BiH's Vosca, that is destroyed there, seems to me to be about seven Serbian villages. So these people can't go back, that should really, see how these people make up for that property. So much and thank you. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8672	Before Mr. Bešlagić took his word, he asked for an intervention, a replica by Mr. Jahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8673	I need to tell my colleague Živković about this census. It is certain that the big problem for us in BiH is in many areas, and also in the area of return, so the implementation of Annex VII because we do not have relevant data and certainly that many problems would be solved in this way. However, we must bear in mind that certain areas of BiH, we all know that, in other words, certain rulings from The Hague have been carried out ethnically cleansed and committed genocide of the population, therefore, with the aim of destroying a nation or part of that people in that area. Many areas in BiH have been killed in this way. So I'm not going in at all who and where and why? But it seems to me this way, if there were a census, we would thus legalise the ethnic cleansing and genocide that was carried out in certain areas. So, that list, the census, is only possible if there is consistent implementation of Annex VII, so when all those interested in returning to their homes return to their homes, only then do the census. The reserve would give even more than that, if that list were run from the level of the entity, which raises doubts about the relevance of the data. So here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8674	Thank you. Of course, the debate is now opening. Replication response, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8675	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, just to replicate to an esteemed colleague, in the conclusion I gave the chairman, it was stated that this preparation activity would lead the Council of Ministers at the level of BiH. So I had no intention of giving it to the entities, so you misread it. On the other hand, I wanted to say, Mr. Jahić, that there is a lot of poetry about such things, especially the list of people who are holding back, and the condition for us to enter the European Union is that we have a census, to say what year it is, that the census of the population in this country has to be done and what percent of the implementation of the property laws, in order for that list to be done at all. It is indicative that in this country, the minister of refugees and displaced persons from the SDA, that the Commission for avoidance and displaced persons from the SDA, is the Commission for Refugees in the RS from the SDA. That's indicative. Thank you. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8676	I don't think there's any need to open up the controversy any further. Mr. Selima, I, of course, respect that noble intention of yours, but let me do it, and I need to do something here. Mr. Selim Bešlgić has his word. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8677	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, believe me, when I read this strategy, as a man who faced refugee problems throughout the entire period of time, since the signing of the Dayton Agreement here, I was delighted to say that, here, as the SDP Parliament Club and myself in that club, I have personally welcomed the adoption of this strategy. We know it's not matter, which is precise and, I would say, decadently determines everything that's inside and that's unchangeable. It changes from day to day. But, and what Mr. Špirić, what Mr. Raguž and all the other debaters have said is that the fact that the Ministry of These Issues, means that social policy and care, had no data and no data today, and, if we don't accept this strategy as such that everyone is obliged to deliver data to that ministry, we will come and we will meet in the same situation or worse situation, because from one simple reason we will find ourselves in this situation more difficult, the international community is losing interest in these things, and our desire is to return to the percentage of the increase. Therefore, the data needed and the powers this ministry needs to obtain, in my deep conviction, must be far more significant, in order for this ministry to assume the responsibility that we have all discussed here. I mean, that's what we need to say that, right now, it seems to me that this debate is another task to this ministry that, respecting all of our remarks and everything else, strengthens this strategy and is constantly supplementing it and, simply, is constantly presenting this home with elements of what it is and how it is achieved. One thing, for example. characteristic, it is true that these percentages are the return of property, i.e. the realisation of property laws. Are they true? Maybe they are, but it's a question of how many people have returned. The percentage return of people, I'll tell you all openly here is in rural areas, probably equivalent to the return of property. In the middle of town, that's not true. We have one problem, which we pointed out on the commission, which is a guarantee, i.e. the return of intelligence in the middle of where they came from or banished in '91. and '95. And there we have made one observation to see the solution to the co-financing of return, I would say intelligence in these places, because you simply can't tell a man to come back, so he says I have no doctor, I have no teacher, I have no lawyer, one, the other, and the third. However, I therefore believe that this is all that we are discussing, I would say, a well-intentioned discussion, that our ministry, the ministry represented here today by the minister, would take responsibility for what is in the strategy today. Why am I saying that, 112? I speak for the reason that as an MP of this House, I have raised the question of those 50 Chinese tractors. Believe me, I got an answer from the minister that Pero, Stojan, Janko, Juso got tractors. I said I was looking for how many soils were modeled. Because the essence is a model country, and not at all, and again I got a correct answer from the minister, who says. That he insisted on the resolution ministries in entities to deliver that information to him, and we'll see when we get it, and I mean that if that minister, if he's not in charge of the resolution ministry, or he doesn't have the right to use it to get the data, I think we're playing some kind of MPs here, we're acting as people who make conclusions, who can contribute to the realization of all these projects. One thing I want to say to me and what I want to say here, past the club, I personally think, staying and coming back are two drastic things, different. As long as it means staying, it can be realized by the Dayton Agreement and by human rights, it has nothing to do with the Dayton Agreement, it's my right to stay, to get a ID card to check out in Tuzla and come to Sarajevo, to apply and I stay in Sarajevo. But that doesn't mean the obligation of this society to take care of me. Returning is something called commitment. And I'd like to ask you to clear that up. Let him stay wherever he wants, but just don't let him worry about someone else's property. And, legally, let them regulate that stay, as a matter of principle, check out in one place, and report elsewhere. Returning is what this parliament must change its accounts for. And that's why I think that the proposals, better said this strategy, are something that we should support, a request to the ministry that these suggestions that are given here accept, and that, as simple as living matter, let's agree on one pace of reporting to this Parliament in solving a particular problem, because believe me, you're all right to say. The realisation of this strategic project will be of an amount of funds, and that is a question, which, unfortunately, we do not seem to be able to define today, but we can put it as one of the very important elements in the realization of this project.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8678	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Word has Mr. Sead Avdić. Let's get Mrs. Ruža Spta ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8679	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I, too, would like to say a few words about this document, with moreover, here are several debaters of the warned House of Representatives, I would say the price to continue, I would say, the silent protests of the ethosisation of the territory in BiH, and hence the further Roces of the ethnic division of BiH. This, at the very least, warns the House of Representatives, including the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, that they are simply giving an analytical response to this finding, which has been expressed by already several debaters. Which means that paper vomit, of course not, records high levels of growth and dynamics and encourages etc. A first look at 113 is a vision of a successful return to BiH, and on the other hand, you have in reality how much of the return the colleague Raguž was talking about. Which means that this assessment should be analysed analytically and simply substantiated by BiH's data, which has already been discussed on several occasions. It is even more concerned with the fact, which the ministry finds and says there will be a transition of areas from international institutions, such as OHR, PRSPI, OSCE, UNHCR, etc. at the home institutions of the government, and the ministry finds that there is no organisational training, that there is no human resources, that there is no funds, etc. etc. And, we, simply with that transition with that transition of powers, will slow the process of return. If we accept the finding of the Ministry that's in the document. What does that mean? I propose and ask it to be one of the conclusions of the House of Representatives, to continue the project of the heart and harmony of this document, together with international institutions such as OHR, PRSPI, OSCE, UNHCR etc. and to bring this project to an end, together with international institutions, which have operated for the past seven years on the realisation of the Dayton Agreement, or Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. So, I repeat once again, it would be good to translate this strategy into a project of such return within four years, I would say that this is the final project of phase III of the implementation of Annex VII in BiH, together with international organisations, along with the international community and I am sorry, which, too, today, there is no international community here, conditionally speaking. Where is our OHR, where is PRSP, where is UNHCR, OSCE etc.? It would absolutely be necessary to invite representatives of these institutions to this session of the House of Representatives. They are more involved in the return process than domestic authorities. So, the joint level of responsibility we bear together and we run this process with the international community, and today they are not, they are not in the material, etc., and plus we have an announcement of a transition of power, transition, simple obligation, conditionally spoken to the international community with domestic authorities. So, I plead that this conclusion is very important, that it is simply being reconsidered and that, together with the international community, a self-sustained project, the final project of returning exiled and displaced in BiH by 2006, seems to be fully realised by Annex VII. So, I also critically understand this title of the strategy, it's not a human strategy, it's a program, it's perhaps a pre-ambitious title of the strategy, it should sort of correct it. That's one thing. I don't want to bother you too much, and secondly, in Chapter VI of this document, it's like this. Improve employment, so-called minority returnees in the area of the judiciary, police, administration bodies, public enterprises, etc. It is an important segment of this document of this strategy, as we call it, and that means, people, we do not have an analysis of the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people in BiH. We don't have an analytical observation as long as we've come to implement the amendments to the entity constitutions. We only came to the surface to implement some of the government at entity level and nothing else. As a matter of fact, many things have not been done by vertical means, and we are in a blockade of our kind, from the aspect of implementation of the Decision on the constitutionality of the people in BiH. Do not be fooled that if we have two vice-presidents of the Federation or two vice-presidents of the Republic of Slovenia, we have implemented the Constitutional Court Decision. Which means it's necessary to give these answers. Until that happens, people have no self-sustainable return. So, while in these institutes such as health, education, 114 authorities of administration, judiciary, police, etc. We do not implement a decision on the constitutionality of the people, so there is no discussion on any sustainable return to BiH. So this is the condition, I would say, of the further successful process of carrying out the return process in BiH. I would ask the ministry to appreciate what it has done and this is a kind of courage, and this is a synthesis of all that this country is doing, and in this context only one ministry is not responsible for everything that is simply present in the sphere of return. I'd say, in the end, don't let people stop making more business than they do coming back, which is what a lot of debaters have been talking about. So, let's try to put the process under control by the state bodies of the BiH Institute of Authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8680	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Let Mr Ivo Miro Jović prepare, then Mr Kunić, then Mr Novaković, then Mr Duraković, and Mrs Jelina Đurković. That's the order of the reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8681	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished fellow representatives, esteemed guests, certainly it is the making of such a document, which deals with such an important question to welcome and, especially what this document will animate everyone who has dealt with and who has done this job so far, and certainly not few. In addition to foreign organisations such as UNHCR, OHR, OSCE, USAID, the European Union INDPs, which again have all their central offices, special envoys, regional offices, branches on the ground, in addition to all these thousands of people, the reception, the domestic people, receive salaries on return implementation, which take care of the return of refugees and displaced. I, for one strategy, such as this one, would need a good analysis of the previous state of return as it was done, as far as it was essentially displaced, because I have no data from this strategy, no data, no data, as many as are returned, especially we don't have the data, how many people we need to get back, because what's here, what's little, they're, in truth, so unconvinced, because we say 400, well, but that's about 300 grand, so we don't have exactly defined, we have what we're supposed to do, but we don't have what our mission is, and how much it takes us neither time nor money nor people to do it. Especially we don't have the data structured. The entire analysis of the previous situation and the analysis of the current situation is defined on, from an opportunity on one page. Not only should we have data on the number, but they should have that data structured, primarily national. Here, I listen, all the debaters are talking about ethnic cleansing, silent ethnic cleansing. However, we have no data on the number of people displaced by national structure, no data on how many have returned to the national structure in the meantime or how many others there are and what their wishes are after ten years. Now, really, it's a question of what kind of a people's thirsts are like for a comeback or not. 115 I have often heard about Croatians, when it comes to Hrvat, Hrvat do not want to return from international organisations, especially from non-Croatian politicians. The question needs to be asked, if not the Hrvat will return why they will not return. Why won't they come back, so that out of the nine people who died in the process, the returnees who died in central Bosnia, no one else has been enlightened. It is not even set here as a goal to be such, not only in the Hrvat, but all the muggings on the returnees, to set as a goal of lighting, because the anam would not be new. Secondly, apart from the number that we need to recover, we need to structure them, not by national, but by category, whether it's a rural or urban population. Surely they are not different, that they are not the same ways of returning to rural areas and urban areas and are not the same as wishes. In order to know how much money we need, we need to know what kind of areas we want to bring people back to, so from the point of view of infrastructure, those basic living areas about el. The energy Mr Špirić spoke of, to the possibility of education tomorrow or treatment in those areas. If they had such recorded areas and BiH was not large at all, this could not be recorded at the time of the el. The post office is so easy to go, many have been engaged in unification, so someone said that international organisations better have data and I agree and I think, by uniting that data to work out that this data is being pooled, I'm not going to say that this ministry, which has not yet been completed, equipped, but in the making of a strategy, it has to find ways and opportunities for these pedestals to be united, because I say at the time of e-mail and by controlling that data, at least that close to the exact data, which we would have to shed light on here and give, and we would have in truth what we have to do. All of this, this strategy is quite general, in fact, I'm concerned about the structure that should be doing everything, but we, in fact, 9 don't know what it is that we need to do or how much money we need, which is also a very important moment. It would be very important and it would be very good if we knew how much resources we received in the truth. How are they directed? Where were they? Well, let the data get close, but in it, it doesn't talk at all about directing those funds, how many there were. We know that the mass of money has entered, and the question is, have they been used and purposely spent, right where they were directed, where their intention was when they came. That's why I can't talk about this strategy as a strategy. She marked the problem, she pointed out, and I don't know, I just don't know if this ministry is going to solve it when we've had so many people on this mission, so we haven't gotten to the exact data yet, I think she should have that data, as a basis for all of our future work conclusions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8682	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself. May I have your attention, please? It's getting a little low. We've got five more with Mr. Jovic and the debaters reported, so we're going to suggest one conclusion here in the College. We're here in the College talking about a possible conclusion. So, then 116 would give us one brief break to keep our attention on this important topic. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8683	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow MPs, distinguished ministers, I didn't have a pseudo-preparation for today's pay phone date on this wheel. However, as the discussion progressed, man cannot remain on some findings cold, so probably my rhetoric common to this speaker will, for sure, suppress some questions and probably try to give and call all things by the right name, at least I hope to succeed. This kind of document that is before us, if God had been made before, would be very good, and the way it is, it's better than none, and if I were to say, if I were a respected minister, I think I'd defend a lot and there'd be a lot of it and a lot of good. There are also things that aren't good, because, well, the distinguished representative before me said, I just think that maybe until the end she was clear, exiled in this war is not the citizens of BiH, but the peoples. We need to know that it is true and that it is so, and we show the results of our return through the citizens. Why? So to hide something or to have bad intentions, because I can't accept the fact that this situation as it is and here in this respected House of Representatives, I want to and I want to say. What would the Amerikanac say if they were missing 140 million? What would the Nijemac say if they missed 40 million? What would my dear neighbours of Bošnjak say is that they are missing a million, which my dear Srbin neighbours say is missing 800 thousand, because the Hrvat are missing exactly half of us and I'm afraid and the international community and we here and these people who should make these strategies a little bit different, want to insist or not, I have an argument to show, because I'm afraid so I'm scared of being told here that some honest data doesn't want to say, and that's why I have an argument. Two or three of our meetings ago, I asked a representative question when it comes to Brcko. I said then that we should form a parliamentary representation here, which should go to Brcko and see to what extent human rights are being violated or not being violated in Arizona. On my request a very hasty, pedantic and broadly competent ministry gave an answer and I hope that you have had the opportunity to read it. I'm terrified of that answer and I commend the Ministry. I expected it to be very short and say, yes, there are violations or do not violate rights. Very decadently, three typed old women are shown as much as possible and as much as human rights are being violated there. But I want to remind you in Brcko is in power of the international community. Of the 25 thousand pre-war Hrvat, 3,000 returned. And there's an international community in power. I don't know what it is or how it all comes together like that, just happens, accidentally or intentionally. But here we can, here's the first step to realising this strategy. It has been indicated that they will need to build and form a commission. I didn't hear if it was formed, whether it's in the formation phase, when it's going to form. That would oversee what's here, sort of set deadlines. It has also been said that the examination shows that many things had to be done. Whether we have that commission or not. I want to be a part of it. So I want to say, that we can and should form this commission more on behalf of this representative body and go and see exactly according to 117 of the ministry's findings to what extent and where human rights are being violated. It's our responsibility. That's how we're going to apply the strategy on the first example. There was also a talk just now about the list of people in the country. The international community is ashamed of the list of Hrvat in BiH, and therefore the census is not conducted. Who will publicly admit that half of a nation in Europe is lacking in modern times? No one. And that's exactly what the basic data is that we can't have input quality information. You can't have the result of the output information without the input and the qualitative information. So if there's anything we can do, it's urgent to make a list of the population. It was 1066 years ago. When Ivan without a country made a list and England for a very short time – seven days. Well, I guess we have a thousand people on the ground, too, so what information do we need about this whole problem? In each municipality, we have at least two administrators working on this issue from each of the data received, and that's not difficult, if we want to. I'm looking forward to living in a municipality where it's still '98. 100% spent return, but I'm not looking forward to taking a bath on Monday, that community has no water for ten days. Then what are we offering the citizen of this country when he returns? When those who live there can't move on. There are big problems ahead of us. We can't close our eyes, we have to solve them and offer solutions, not just criticise them. So I suggest to the esteemed Mr. Nikola to go, I to be a Srbin in the Drava, and let the colleague be a Hrvat in Derventa or Brod, so let's see, today, here at this pay phone, there's a certain town where tens of thousands of people came back, where these people lived before they came back to the Drvar? Who lives in those houses where they came from? Here's the answer, Mr. Jovanović. Are we going to bring people of Serbian nationality back to Croatia or not? Who's going to populate those houses that we bring them back from? Here, the people returned to Glamoch, were returned to the Drvar, were returned to Grahovo, but there is no one in that house from where they moved back and that is the problem we must call our name in public. When are we gonna do that if we can do that? I'm sure we can do it if we want to. You know we have refugee asylum centers. These days, we also had commissions to visit them. Grief and grief and they are here in BiH seeking BiH's asylum or going to third countries and coming from Serbia-Montenegro's state union. There's not a word about it. I don't defend the Republic of Croatia, I mean, I'm proud of having people there who in time understand what to do and want to make up for everything. You know it's 4 billion and 200 million kuna in this year that will be set aside for people's return and compensate for all the damage in the war if someone lived in their property. Let's see what we can do, here's the question of last session this extension we have, meaning in this same session, only in the second date of the session, when the issue is being raised we are persistently discussing that the Ljubljanska Banka did not damage the citizens of BiH by debt, and 90% of our dominant bank's debt is due and we don't talk about it. Let's deal with these issues with a hasty push. We can only do that if we want and try to keep people at least where they are right now, because you see what's going on. The endangered ones here, the ones there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8684	Mr. Nikola Špirić has the need to replicate briefly, and let Mr. Kunić prepare himself. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8685	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, I had no intention, of course, and when I spoke I did not, I said I would not discuss calling anyone on the line, but since Mr. Honored colleague Moro Jović wants to draw attention to me that it is easier to be a Srbin in Drvar than a Hrvat in Derventa. All these are trade knowledge, and who lives in the property of Srbin who returned to Drvar and Grahovo? Lived pre-war owners or, mostly, empty property, because there is no possibility of a new Srbin moving in to prevent Hrvat from returning and I am against it. But, dear colleague Jović, '91. In the year, the Drvar was 99.8% with the Serbian population with 99.8%. Today, there are barely 30 people working in that 11,000 return tree. This property was stolen, exported to the brotherland of Croatia. This property serves those Hrvat who suffered the same torment as the Drvar, who drove the Srbin out of the Drava. So, these Srbin did not return to the property of the fugitive Srbin from Croatia, if you must know that there is one people, also in the heart of Europe, who has come out as a people and is returning as a national minority. But I didn't feel like alimony today, and if I had the right to ask what we're going to do with these people, and that is the strict state problem of BiH, not the RS entity. I am so that we are not talking here about the return of Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat, but about protecting the rights of BiH citizens. There's a home to protect vital interest, it's the House of Nations. Since its existence, it has not raised a question of protecting the vital national interest of a single nation, and BiH is full of human rights violations at every turn. That's the way I want to talk. This way, where it's easy to be a Srbin, where it's easy to be a Hrvat, I don't think it's a viable position for all people who have left their property and we need to talk about it that way. I didn't mention the examples of Dravar and Grahov in order to reduce the importance of a poor position and Hrvat living in these cities, but I wanted to say and I think that Bosnian Grahovo, Drvar, is a disgrace to the government and state and entity. Come on, please don't lie to me. I'm talking about the region, Canton 1 as there are examples. You rightly point to the position of Hrvat in Posavina. I am so that she can be fixed. You have me here as anchovies, not as a replicator, but to work, but are we ready to return the stolen economic property to the citizens of the Drava. To tell it to the Srbin. Are we ready to return them to the jobs that were taken from them by people who didn't live in the woodwork? And we are discussing the Drava as a historic Croatian town. That's the problem. There is a trap for what is called an unsustainable return, because there are people who want to return, just to make it unsustainable, to send him a message that it is a historic Croatian city. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8686	That's the answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8687	I'd love to listen to a dear esteemed colleague so I can tell him. I am pleased that from today on, the Serbian Ship is no longer called in by the Hrvat before the war made up the majority and 56%. We didn't change the name of the Drava. Well, I'm glad it's called the Woodman that there are 11,000 Srbin in it. They have their school days, so the steps are getting better. They're not going to the boat at all. Why? There are no Hrvat. You have no problem with the Hrvat in Derventa, Modrichi and Shamac. Why? So 119's gone. How are you going to have trouble getting people to work that people have a house 8 so they're gone? The international community did not want to take any steps in this regard. As much as I said about this speaker guilt against us, the people who live in BiH I do it equally, if not greater responsibility. I'm the one who told you what's going on in Brcko. The ugliest thing in Europe is happening in Brcko, and there is international power in power. The international community is in power in Brcko. 26 thousand Hrvat lived there; today their land is taken away from them hundreds of dulms, and they are expelled. Today, the international community banishes the Hrvat from Posavina and that is an argument. And if I knew the argument that you have, dear colleague Nikola, that someone stole some goods in the Drava, took it to Croatia, you should sue it, and it's not a good message here to a couple if you know someone stole something, something's alienated, it's known how it's handled by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8688	Dear colleague Jović. Dear counterpart Jović, I don't think this debate of ours will help Srbin or Hrvat. I'm not ready to talk about who's a bigger Srbin who's a bigger Hrvat. In me you have the support to improve the status of Hrvat in the ship. What I'm saying is that there's a part of the locked property in both of them, where people don't want me to come back. But I am because we talk about people, not Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak. If we only discuss the position of Srbin and Hrvat, what about the Bošnjak. I'm talking about a live man in BiH who pays the price of an accident called war. He has this, as far as assets are concerned, and a dispute has been launched, and the international community knows about it, etc. You know, nobody steals it back easily. But a city that had 21,000 inhabitants before the war, in which only 50 people work, says what condition it is, I would say the same thing if it were Hrvat. You have, therefore, in me support that I advocate better status of Hrvat in the ship and it is of the least importance whether or not we have changed someone's name if we have made him into intolerable conditions. What he's using for the drvarčan is whether he's called one or the other. I ask you today to give a tone to discuss the strategy without talking about how much a Hrvat or a Srbin is, because I think that story is the size of Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak has the final result of 300 dead. I'm afraid of that policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8689	Mr. Špirić, I think we can conclude this replication to each other. Let's go have a discussion. Mr. Petar Kunić. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8690	Thank you, Mr. President, I have finally come to order, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and allow me to say a few words about this very important document. I'm sure it's very important, if nothing else, then it's going to trigger some kind of activity that's missing. 120 However, I would not like to repeat some who have already spoken on many occasions. I'd just like to draw attention to some things that aren't tang or sufficiently tangled. The first paragraph of the return of property and the real return should be differentiated. It's a very unfortunate psychological impression that you have 23.8% returned to RS, while you have 74.19% in the Federation. The actual data is 62.3% as far as I think. So it gives up one image, especially for those who read the usual beginning of text or introductory part. Therefore, I suggest that this part of the text be revised, at the very least, to enter the actual data as to how much property was returned after that paragraph, to carry a passport to the extent that the cover has been returned. Secondly, I don't think this 74.19% data is relevant, at least as far as I come into contact with people, in terms of Sarajevo. Many people take personal documents, of course, for the return of property and have not returned. I think it's incorrect data and it's quite incorrect, not to mention other cities of Tuzla, Sanski Most, etc. There's a lot of them. Therefore, the data should be verified. This isn't real data. Because you see in Sarajevo what's going on. You pass by the house for sale, house for sale, etc. A small number of people return and should not accept this without checking this data, or entering this passport I will not vote for this document. So please enter facts that really correspond to the real state, especially when they're public data. They should work, take special care of always the executives about these things. The return of Hrvat to Posavino is mentioned here, since you know that I came from Croatia and that I have never used this pay phone on this issue, because from where you come from, don't ever throw any punches, etc., but I must say that I listened to a few discussions in the Croatian Parliament, which are very rigid about the return of Srbin to Croatia, very, very rigid, even so rigid that they question BiH and Croatia's relations. When I was Deputy Prime Minister, or Minister of Administration, of the local self-government Mrs. pak, when she entered my door, she asked me first how many Hrvat were returned to Posavina. I said, ma'am, they're allowed back, few are returning. They won't come back. And I asked her a question. How many Srbin returned to Croatia? You know, I keep pressure on Croatian leadership to bring as many Srbin back to Croatia and they have to do so, etc. But the answer is next. I told her, the Hrvat will return to Posavina, give the infrastructure to Derventa. Open up factories, companies, make investments, make investments in Brod, etc. Which she remained silent, but to answer why Hrvat, of course, are not busy for these reasons, and they have jobs in Croatia, because 500,000 Srbin have left Croatia. They got their seats. Yes, it is. You now have about 250,000 there, there were 800,000 of them officially. Please, and then you have jobs, people don't come back, because they're better there. Please, everyone stays where they are better, those are the facts. I wouldn't accept those two-treatment findings. I would never accept that. 121 Yes, how, I agree with this fund formation. That's why there's no fund formed, probably the authorities. The Fund had to be formed at the level of the institutions in order to address these issues better, and this is indeed a major failure. What would I suggest about this? To introduce rigorous measures, therefore, both in BiH entities and at the level of BiH institutions against bureaucratic relations that citizens face when they seek their property, it is absolutely certain that everyone can confirm that citizens are very, very sued for one non-civilisation to say, one incorrect relationship of red tape to people who are looking for, who are in a difficult situation, who are in trouble etc. Another thing I would point out is the issue of returning Srbin to Croatia, which must be the authorities, which must be followed by the BiH authorities. We now have a situation, therefore, that in the exchange of property of people who have left BiH, namely Banja Luka from RS, they have replaced houses with those in Croatia, they have submitted these requests from Croatia, they have been returned with property, and those in Banja Luka are being expelled from RS. So, double losers. They lost property in Croatia, lost property in BiH. So there's one of the greatest injustices, gentlemen. It's inhumane, illegal, non-civilization, etc. The other thing is, if someone swaps property under which circumstances I wouldn't go into it, so look, book property in Croatia, so look for property here. It's a catastrophic personality. I'd never dream of it, but there's a lot of cases like that. And, please, in this sense, the authorities of BiH take appropriate measures, because you cannot leave someone without property at all and book someone in Croatia and give in BiH. It's a reality and no one takes action. The second thing, about the parliamentary question I asked, too, about this category of people. It's a matter of pension. Those who have completed 35 years of employment there, Croatian funds do not pay BiH. Well, that's a lot of millions... but mostly they make a pension there so they go there to get a pension, they don't go, they can't go away for all sorts of reasons. They receive pensions under our terms far less and Croatian funds do not pay that part of the funds in our funds. That's what the executive authority has to deal with. He has to ask that question. Those are burning questions. It's a matter of protecting human rights, basic, fundamental human rights, property rights. So, I would ask that it be entered into this document and that it be in some way a framework of talks with representatives of Croatia. Another thing I would also support what was already in this text, which is the control of the spending of funds. I think it is a mature situation for auditors to enter, to make an insight into the spending of funds both in entities and at BiH level. I agree with those who have said that the division of jurisdiction should be respected, because without the division of jurisdiction there is no responsibility. There's no responsibility without the division of jurisdiction. If you don't know what your jurisdiction is, there's no responsibility. So that would be mine. I'd like it registered, and if it's accepted, I'm willing to vote for this document. Thank you very much. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8691	Thank you. He's got a word. You're looking for a replica, aren't you? Let's do it for a while. The replica lasts a minute, so go ahead. If we had to do a little bit now, no matter what the subject is very important, here we wait, but still to allow you to say it. Here you go. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8692	Madam Chairman, Mr. Representatives, I would like to replicate to Mr. Kunić on this finding that the Hrvat do not wish to return. Well, according to Mr. Kunić, it's possible they don't want to. They went there voluntarily. So people are, they thought of one day in '91. Or '92. years, left his house and left. What would they like to come back for? This thesis is often heard which is very dangerous and which results in legalising ethnic cleansing. The Hrvat won't come back. So we have no obligation, nothing to do with them. What would they do if they didn't want to come back? The other thing is that they left, they got a job in Croatia, and they work there in places where Srbin were supposed to work. The issue of the position of Srbin in Croatia is the issue of the Croatian state, but I would like to remind Mr Kunić that the Hrvat were expelled from Banja Luka where the bullet was not fired, from Posavina which was leveled in '92. A year. The truth then they went to Knin and drove the Srbin away, so they took their jobs, after Mr. Kunić. If then a Hrvat could have come to Knin, not to say work, then Mr. Kunić is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8693	Mr. Novaković has a word. Let Mr. Duraković and Mrs. Jerina Đurković prepare themselves and this would be the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8694	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, here I am as my friend Ivo Miro Jović did not mean, but I was invited to discuss, so let me say something. Namely, I want to make one, first proposal, and then I'll explain why I'm making that suggestion. Given the significant remarks made to this document here, I would like to suggest that we return this document to the Ministry with a stenogram from this session in order for the Ministry to come up with a document that reflects and what is now in the document, and what is here. I think that way we'd get a quality document that we'd all support here. Many arguments could be made in support of this proposal, and among other things, if they are in this document, I will not say unverified, but certainly incorrect data. The information presented by Mr Špirić and others, which is on the first page, is absolutely incorrect unless 123 issue of ID cards is included on return. If it's a return, then that information might be true. But it seems to me that we're talking about returning something different here. It means the physical return of people to these areas. And while I'm at it, there's a very important element missing from this document, which is a factor of security that's not even processed here at all. If there is no security problem, then the question of return is really serious, or will to return. So the very important security factor here is missing. I must say, with the fulfillment of these conditions that are a matter of importance and people's will here. It is obvious that there is, too, a lack of will for people to return early for various reasons. Someone who went abroad doesn't want to come back from abroad because half of this country is killing itself to get documents to go abroad. And let's get these back. He has no idea. Others don't want to come back because they don't feel safe, others don't want to come back because they're better off where they are now. I speak with the fulfillment of these conditions necessary to enable a return, of course, that people have a place to go, to get their houses done, to enable a sustainable return. But despite these factors, there is this factor. The fact is also that the proposal put forward by my colleague Raguž, which is to see that priorities are focused on areas and regions, is an acceptable proposal, by fearing that we can't define it here now, but that it must again be the subject of a different debate, and for this reason it might not be bad for us to return this strategy to the Ministry and build it up and put it in, because it should be an integral part of the strategy. Not to mention some other remarks that have been made here regarding financial, financial support for this strategy. There are some proposals in the strategy that are intruding into constitutional, in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these parts should be designed slightly differently. In fact, the ministry's absolute constitutional jurisdiction at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is unacceptable to entity ministries. So there are only different levels of so there are different competences and there is no disputed subordination. But how controversial it is for one ministry to be in charge of the entity ministry. For now, it is. When we change that, it won't be. But for now, it is. What I want to say here in the end, and it seems to me that in one very ugly way it is said is the relationship between coming back and staying. Someone here said that staying is the result of a change of residence, that some people have formally changed their residence and that no one should think of them. And now they want to stay in Banja Luka and change their residence from another town, it doesn't matter who. Gentlemen, it is not such a simple problem to remain, as it is not a simple problem or a return. The strategy should address the issues of refugees and displaced persons, and both have been avoided and displaced. And they deserve each other's help. Of course, depending on the number of each other depends on the way, that is, the strategic commitment of both this Parliament and the Ministry. For these reasons, as well as a number of other colleagues who took out, I am staying, or I have a proposal to return this document with a stenogram of the competent ministry in order to really get a document that depicts really the first condition. Thank you. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8695	Thank you. Mr. Nijaz Duraković, have Mrs. Jerina Đurković prepare, and then we will suggest a conclusion. Mr. Muratović is answering for his word. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8696	Dear MPs, or MPs, as you wish, I have the impression that here is the least debated about this document, or strategy. In fact, national or nationalist strategies are auctioned here. And just now, Beriz said that people are hearing our debate today, probably no one would ever come back. And Špirić asked the first question, is the strategy that it is not too ambitious title etc. That's not at all Nikola's issue. Is the strategy a program, is it a project, is it a draft, but it should be well supported, that initiative that is finally after eight years coming. In this sense, I support this document, regardless of what it can be comforted and groomed in a particular whether, on certain issues. There's a lot of talk here about statistics, isn't there? Unfortunately here is most of these who criticise that data, they are against, say, the state statistical office, but let it be in Banja Luka, no matter, either in Mostar or in Sarajevo. But whenever that question is mentioned, it is immediately referred to as a threat to national, such, etc. We must rejoice in the data offered by the international community. They're still thinkin' pretty reliable so they're talking about the census. So why don't we do it brother more. He needs to see if he does. Seems like a lot of people care a lot about getting to him, but what we have is the last list from '91. A year. So along with some sort of aprogress assessment of how lost that population is, etc. They're dealing with a relative number. And this, in my court, was the main debate about coming back, etc. I have the right to tell you now that I feel as Bošnjak and as a citizen of Sarajevo, I am very, very offended if it turns out from all this discussion today that the most injured Srbin and Hrvat and that they can at least go back to where they were being expelled from. Raguž is talking about Savina and Derventi rightly. Jovć is talking about missing more than half of Hrvat with rights. Only those half Hrvat went to Croatia or European countries, and half of Bošnjak went underground. There's a fundamental difference. Then we need to speak for once, really, if we want to speak honestly here on behalf of this country and its interests – the question of Posavina and the question of Dravarov, Grahov and Glamoc and the predominant Serbian to say the end, and you are Nikola right. The woodwork is 100% Serbian. How can it suddenly become a 100% Croatian and salty Croatian town? Because this is the result of Tuđman and Milošević's agreement on the exchange of territories and because the predominant Bosniak landscapes have become Serbian, and predominant Serbian landscapes have become Croatian and all evil has come out of it. We don't need to close our eyes. They have stenograms, they have evidence, they have everything. And that was supported by both SDS and HDZ, and of course by the SDA. So that's the result. 125 The main issue of coming back is not now whether someone will come back and he will get it. He'll get a house, a return, and so on. The first question is whether there are existential conditions to life. Here's what Raguž knows in our Stoc, a thousand and more Bošnjak have returned. Only ten make them all over the community. Ten. According to how he will live, what will he live on? How's it going? The school is still divided there. A divided hospital. No Bošnjak can work in a chair hospital that used to be a clinical center. That's the main question. And we just stare here and pretend like we're crazy. I asked you a question. How can the Bošnjak come back? Is there one in the Nevessinj? There's not one. Is there one in Bilachi? There's not one. Is there one in Visegrad, Visegrad? There's not one. Is there one in the Ownership? There's not one. etc. etc. Then let's not just talk from our national point of view. Still, speaking of Sarajevo, Sara's worst environment turns out to be. Sarajevo has lost 12,000 people here from shelling, it is known by whom, 50,000 wounded, but has received more returnees than the entire Republika Srpska combined. It's the international community's data. Well, not anymore. Now it's gonna turn out to be Sara's worst. Let's see where, what about Čajnič, what about Ruda, what about the Bosnian Nova, what about the other cities? Let's see, etc. I mean, if we're going with national charges and national emotions and this way we're going to approach this strategy, there's nothing. We'll never make a deal. Let's see once, try the spear into the thorns and see if there's anything we can do and what are the real elements of the return. It's not just a question of will. Someone said it right. Everyone likes to go back to their hometown. It's about the elemental conditions of existence. Is there a job and is there a school, is there a health care, is there a mosque and a church, is there what I know about this and that? Is there any security? That's the real question for me, isn't it? Someone says, I think Sejo said Avdić, says this is about the quiet processes of ethnisation of territory. Unfortunately, Sejo, not silently, these are the final processes of ethnisation that are happening. I'm sorry to say, because this project is obviously in the finalization process. If this parliament does not adopt any strategy, programme or project or so on, then we will come to terms with it definitely that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be ethnically divided into these ethnic bants and these towers and whatever you want. And I would therefore support this draft, of course in line with the stenogram of this debate, so that it can be done and that we as Parliament adopt it, as a first step to do something serious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8697	Thank you. Mrs. Palavrić asked for it. Please. Replica. Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Zorić, then Mrs. Milićević. Here you go. 126
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8698	For the sake of truth, I only have to correct one false quote by Professor Duraković in the part where he said that the rich part and the SDA participated in the exchange of territories, that I am now adding to human migration or any kind of ethnic cleansing. The U.S.A. has never done that in any way. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8699	Sir, please, Professor Duraković, wait until they finish the replicas of the others. You'll get a sentence just wait. Wait a minute, we have a turn. You'll get your turn, you'll get a chance to talk. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8700	Suada, for God's sake, you're not being directed. Take a look at Tuđman Izetbegović's stenogram and you'll see. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8701	Please, please give me that. Please. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8702	And here I was almost thinking which side I'm going to turn on now that I'm getting a mouth.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8703	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8704	I really resent you preside over not to mention a fellow representative who spoke before me and before my colleague, Seada Palavrić, because this is the only expression he had in response to the replica deserves a reminder. It's not appropriate from this pay phone, and I'm not going to say what he just said, and it's also not appropriate to talk to someone here with Sejo, because I'd like to say and think about who he was saying something to and who he's talking to here from the MPs, because I don't know any reps. I thought my colleague Duraković here would talk about the strategy because he, the first sentence, was to be surprised at the other colleagues who discussed why they did not talk about the strategy and correct his claim that there were nationalist attacks here, and even his statement would not be called nationalist even though it is the most similar. 127 It is not true that the HDZ supported the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it is not true that President Tuđman wanted to share Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there is therefore no document and for what is said from this pay phone should also have evidence. If someone was offering something from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that does not mean that the one offered was for the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is proof that the Republic of Croatia has recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina within today's borders and that the Republic of Croatia is a friend of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I wouldn't want to talk this way and talk about how many Bošnjak employees are in the Stoc. I could ask and go further how busy people were in the Gruds by the '90s. The year, until '70. A year. And why it was a passive end. Which policy led and who will bring back the people that such politics has led and who will bring back the people that such politics has moved from Australia to Canada. Well, we're not going that far. People aren't coming back here. People would return to those who moved out, but they would not return to those who were born and adults in Zagreb, Vienna, Munich, etc. I would really like Mr. Duraković to withdraw those statements he made here because it doesn't lead anywhere. I'm not going to replicate to him anymore if he talks like this, but on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm building around that nationalist and that HDZ wanted to share Bosnia and Herzegovina. The HDZ, i.e. the HVO, is the first to stand up for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today we want to build Bosnia and Herzegovina, but on equal and democratic principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8705	Please nice, I'd like you to tell me
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8706	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8707	Replication response. But there's a replica on your replica of Nijaze before that. May I have your attention, please? Come on, the replica lasts, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8708	Dear Chairman, I'm going to try not to break through that time, and I wanted to say that I didn't think I'd have to go out here and say something about this. I think that this item of the agenda has been given what time it deserves and could be about this and beyond and longer to talk, but I think in one part we went to another extreme. Under 1. We have not potentiated what is very important. I will repeat this again, I once said about this pay phone that nowhere in the world after such a conflict occurred has not been recorded in that time the number of returns recorded in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we've been recognized on an international stage by people who are very important, where the data is seen. So that's very important. 128 Today we have a very important document that perhaps we should have talked about in another way. So we've paid a little attention to who the bearers are, how much we need the means, every time we have a job ahead of us, so we determine who's going to do it, how much it's going to work, how much it's going to cost us what continuity it's going to be. I think we've devoted a little time to that, and I think that's what deserves attention. Secondly, what Mr. Duraković is, here's the name I'm talking about. Let's go, we competed today to say where it is worse and who's worse. Let's see, let's see who it is that makes life miserable for those people who came back there, or they can't come back. In particular, as far as East Herzegovina is concerned, I can say that I have no case of a complaint that a man is complaining that someone has been prevented from entering his property. So we don't have those cases. The rate of return on property is very high and I meet my fellow Bošnjak citizens every day, but these people do not show any desire to remain in Bilja. Why? Well, people because those companies that were developmentists in Biljay don't work. Their colleagues who lived the entire war in Biljah have no and have lost their jobs. I mean, we have a very difficult social situation. The population that's here can't live. So the illusion is that someone who has a chance anywhere to find a way out of here will try to survive and live. So I insist that it's very important, I suggest to the ministry that everyone sees if there's any objections and where there's obstruction, whether we have cases of having an analysis to put pressure on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8709	This is a discussion, ma'am, and you asked for a replica. You've already passed, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8710	I'll have a minute. So if someone pressured someone to alienate, sell their property, makes it impossible for them to return. It's okay. It's okay. And then let's see what we do on an economically justified return, so self-sustainable. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8711	Thank you. Mr. Duraković. Please briefly respond to these replicas, and then Mrs. Jerina Đurković comes, so let's bring the debate to an end and let's go with the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8712	I will briefly, I am amazed by the fact that Zorić does not know what Tudjman's policy was towards BiH, and about that in the Croatian press and on TV, at least hundreds of thousands of pages of Nacional, Globus, Feral Tribune, Rijeka's New List were published, as stenograms of his all talks were published. There are books written about this by Ivo Banjac, a respected professor of history from... then to Mesić or Špegelj General, etc. About this, even this General Bobetko wrote a book and revealed that for a time Croatia 129 was also an aggressor to Bosnia and Herzegovina and I don't know why this controversy is that HDZ has always defended Bosnia and Herzegovina. He defended us to remember little Zorić and Dretiel and Heliodrom and Ljubusko and Gabela and the concentration of the camp you formed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8713	Please, please, Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8714	etc. That's how you defended us. There. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8715	Have a seat. Please, nice. You have a replica, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8716	I'm glad the distinguished representative Professor Duraković wants the truth. And the whole time I come out here I want to and I want to tell the truth, he confirmed it to me, but that fact is sad. You must meet with a table of truth, Professor, that in Bugojn, for seven months, people were in an open stadium at a camp in the camp. You have to understand that. Yeah, that's not true. I was there with the International Red Cross and with Silajdžić's approval. So that we don't talk about it here right now, let's not abuse this pay phone. And hundreds of such camps were Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8717	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8718	Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8719	I didn't go out to pollemize, and not necessarily, we have a whole other document here, and I thought we'd go back to it, because he's the one who needs to push forward so this doesn't be what we're talking about. There's no point in this discussion. It doesn't serve anything. You're Vareš on her, little Rome, but it's not where the Hrvat live today. There's no sarily of a born who doesn't know you're cheating on little Rome. But there are no Hrvat living in it. And that's true. But I don't want to talk about it. I want to create conditions for a man to choose where he lives. Let's just as responsible people in responsible places do everything through this ministry of the offered text to work it out and do some kind of document that would help us overcome the things we're talking about. I cannot talk about the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina when Bosnia and Herzegovina had districts at the time of the war, professors as well as Serbia. Who divided and who did it? Bosnia and Herzegovina is truly divided, but without Hrvat today. 130
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8720	Please, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8721	And that's why I end up looking for a break from our club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8722	You'll get a break, just to finish the discussion. I've already announced two speakers. It wouldn't be right if I did. Mrs. Jelina, and after that I will also ask for a break and Mr. Muratović. After that, we'll conclude the debate and then there'll be a break. You'll get a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8723	Let the lady say a few words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8724	No, no, until it's over. Take a break now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8725	After me or before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8726	How much do you want to take a break? I'm taking a break until 13 and 15. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. [[PAUZA]] Let him get ready, I'll just say it like this, please. Here comes the HDZ Club, they're looking for a break. Just let the HDZ Club in, because they asked for a break. We're going back to work. The HDZ Club asked for a break, the president of the club was at a session of the extended college, so I took this break and scheduled a session of the extended college. So the aim of this break was to return this important topic back to the very subject, back to the essence of the problem itself, that is the Annex VII Strategy of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and we continue to discuss it. We also agreed on the possible conclusions of this session today. I'll let you know after Mrs. Jelina and Mr. Hasan make their contribution to this debate. Well, Mrs. Jelina, here you go. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8727	So, ladies and gentlemen, I feel like a double collateral damage after a debate like this. First as a politician and second as a refugee. As a politician, I would like it to be ours, that all open questions about the cause of the great damage we have been having are being debated, that these issues of the cold head are being discussed and that we will agree to discuss these issues that are both political and social and every other kind of psychological. Let's discuss these things seriously, organize thematic sessions and conferences, round tables, so that what we have to say can be said where, as agreed. And not here to keep opening up some questions when it's their time and when it's not their time and when it's the subject and when it's not the subject. That's the first one. This one's like a refugee. I must also tell my experience in the experience of my fellow travelers that we feel among the most perceptive in this society. That's what to say. Guys, let's not abuse us in any way. For the good part of today's session was who knows which way to abuse the categories of refugees and displaced people. Please, as a man who understands both sides, I want us to go back to this text that we got today that I wouldn't do, call a strategy, but simply a proposal for a programme that we have to work out and improve to really come to an honest solution to the problem of the category of refugees and displaced. But fair enough. That means the first fair relationship between institutions, government and NGOs, I insist here in government, because we own and turn to them for them to do their job fairly. I'm under the impression that all this conglomerate organization, institution, etc. It has some terrible protein character. As soon as he sees that he could be immaterial, he changes form, so he's back to being subject. We've had enough of these piles of transformations, transitions however you want to state it. So I insist on a fair relationship with the first money-related institutions that direct money to those on which it is intended. Secondly, I would like here in these figures that are mentioned, percentages, to approach these figures and percentages equally fairly once, and that they, therefore, these figures and these percentages are once clearly, publicly and logically presented. As long as that doesn't happen, there will be manipulation. In this regard, it is necessary to make a list. Without it, people, whoever wins, whoever wins, whoever wins, we don't get along, whoever loses, at least we'll be the first to help out more. This is how we manipulate, I'm afraid we're politically manipulating numbers. That's not good. Without it, there's no way we can get along. So, I'd like to see that this program has a very precise structure of refugees and displaced regions, by local communities, if you will. But also the structure of the money, because then we'll know where to invest. Furthermore, I would like to point out in particular that those who want to return and those who want to stay where they started for 10 years already, began a new life to realize that they have equal rights according to aneks vii.. Let's not really, we're really collateral damage political. And those who decided to return 132 and those who decided to stay. We're not a ficus that you can move from one corner of the room to another corner of the room. It can't be like that. We're living people. So I'm asking that we have equal treatment according to Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement and those who remain and those who return. We demand respect for our decision. Still, please, when we talk about this, it really has to work fast. And it has to be done efficiently and publicly. These are the things without which this won't work. Quick, it won't go fair. Next, I'd like to draw attention to the spelling again. I'm getting more and more, and I'm getting more and more papers that contain elementary spelling errors. It doesn't do any good to any of our languages. Then, let's just say once the experts who prepare these papers don't mix, let's say the variant of the type, so you have in one sentence both and the other and the third. That's not good. So, in the end, this, in the end, let's all get serious and get a little bit more responsible for our work than the smallest in the hierarchy to the ones at the top. Please, let's do it the way it suits us. We are the Assembly here, the highest body of this state's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8728	I thank Mrs. Jelina. And we still have Mr Muratović, and we conclude the debate after Mr Muratović's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8729	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, allow me to say only three things very briefly on this important subject. But before that, I would not have answered immediately, but to correct a quote by Mrs. Milićević. She asked us to say where, where more quickly the refugees returned. One million refugees returned to Kosovo in 60 days. If you don't know why, because that's what the international community wanted, and for providing them with the security to return and all the other conditions that are absolutely necessary for man to return. Now very briefly on the Strategy. Each well-defined strategy has three things defined. The first objective that is explicitly expressed means numerically, measured by sizes that can be controlled and time-limited. Second, the second characteristic of the well-defined objective is the way it will be achieved, at all three levels at strategic, operational and tactical and third level, to possess the resources that each target will achieve. If you read this strategy, you will be convinced that in large part of it these three conditions are met. That's the first thing. The other thing is that it's the first ministry that has given us one strategy of what it does. 133 For these two reasons, I suggest that, with respect for the people who have worked on this problem, we adopt this strategy, of course with all the proposals that have been made during this debate and that we appeal to the other two ministries to offer a strategy from their fields. The strategy is usually defined for a certain deadline, but it must be flexible if it does not happen it must have backup solutions etc. And now I would like to say two more things that are important and very much related to this strategy. The first thing is the question of a returnee. The focus of all refugees should be slowly transformed into returnees. Otherwise, we will have some kind of refugees again, or people who will continue to leave the country or leave that place of their return. In that sense, I believe that now to create a programme for returnees in which they would be listed, their condition has been established and we have seen how we will ensure that those where they have returned remain. Since there are many people who live off a refugee and because they care about extending it, we will encourage them to do useful work, not to prolong the problem of refugees, but to now focus on returnees and to stay to earn what their main goal is, their bread, or their bread on the problem. It should be one program that includes what the state will do, what entities, what municipalities and what any local community will do. And about that now, and about refugees and returnees, it's that unfortunate statistics and numbers. It is completely unreasonable that there is no record of every man in refugee and every returnee. Look, at least a thousand people are mentioned here, working professionally on that problem. I'm telling you that every priest and every good one I have has a list of everyone who's come back and everyone who hasn't come back, and people who have been doing this job for years don't have that list. So it is very simple to look down from every village, from the local community and across the municipality to the state to get one such list as soon as possible. Because if he doesn't have a list, then he doesn't know what he's doing. He deals with these people with specific families, specific people, and he claims he doesn't even know who they are. So they're dealing with something they don't know who they are if they don't know an exact list of these refugees. So these are two in my opinion issues where we need to focus our attention now, but after this whole debate and the material that has been offered to us to appreciate what has been done, to appreciate this commitment that the ministry has shown to us, this respect for Parliament and I propose that we adopt a strategy with all these hopes that they will continue and the problem of solving refugees and on a completely new, almost equally big job of solving the returnees' problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8730	I thank Mr. Muratović. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is our debate over. 134 Let me in the end have no ambition to discuss anything special, but let me say a few of my own observations regarding this strategy and this debate and finally tell you what the Expansive College has decided to propose to this House as a conclusion after this debate. First of all, I want to say that here it is not good that we, just eight years after the Dayton Peace Agreement, have a state-level strategy like this initiated by the ministry, but the fact is that at this point we have about half a million people wanting to return to their homes and waiting for them to be provided with these or those conditions for people to return to their homes. Therefore, in this strategy, regardless of what 8 years after Dejton should be given full attention, and I am pleased that today the House has been discussing this strategy for three hours and I understand the debate at the House as the wish of each of us individually to make this strategy as advanced as possible, as much as possible in order to ensure that Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be implemented as high as possible. I repeat, about half a million people at this point are people who have expressed their desire and want to return, and they have no conditions to return to their homes and the good side of this strategy is that this strategy is, if you followed what has been happening since January of this year, so far when it comes to Annex VII, it has prevented the intentions of some to declare Annex VII in Bosnia and Herzegovina ended. That is, in my view, one other very important thing and the great value of this strategy. Of course, it can always be better, always more precise and always more successful. Some of the discussions we heard today in the discussions showed this today. There have been several in my opinion very justified and good proposals that can improve this strategy. That's why I'll just mention some. In my opinion, therefore, it seems and it is a very good fact that here we can notice in the debate here that the Sustainable Return Fund at the state level is not controversial when it comes to this home. I want to inform you that soon, I hope that at the next session we will have a law that regulates that question and we will have the opportunity to determine, and I am glad that the mood in that direction exists. The issue of sustainable return, health issue, pensions, asset issue, issue of implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people's priorities, etc. etc. All these are therefore issues mentioned today in this debate, which in my opinion can improve the document offered by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At this break, the College of Representatives' House in an extended composition unanimously decided to propose to Dom, following the debate, the next conclusion. So in order to have as good a strategy as possible so that we can adequately point out the views of the House of Representatives on the issues of the strategy, we have decided to propose to you that we assign our Committee on Human Rights of Refugees emigration and asylum to take the strategy, its conclusions and a stenogram of the debate from today's session and that, if possible, we prepare for the next session to be held on 7 August, the Commission, which would adopt and deliver to the Council of Ministers as an integral part of the strategy for realisation. This is a proposal to conclude the unanimously extended College of the House of Representatives. I'm putting him to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Is there anyone against this conclusion? Are there any abstentions? Then I find that the House of Representatives unanimously with 36 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, has reached this conclusion. I ask the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum to try to finish this job by the next session I say is scheduled for 7 August of this year, and if not then for a session afterwards, but it must be the first or first one after that session to deliver Parliament's views to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. The Council of Ministers can work according to strategy. This is a document of course adopted by the Council of Ministers. This wait for about 20 days won't interfere with the work of the Council of Ministers, but it is good that our suggestions come to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to the 19th agenda, that's Ad. 19. The Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on visits to refugee and asylum centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina You are, it is the regular activity of our commission and it is okay that the Commission, after carrying out some activity, submits a report to Parliament. You got the report. I'm opening the debate. Does anyone want to talk about that report? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8731	I will, of course, appreciate this distinguished Commission effort. So from this report, and I think it is very important we cannot determine how many asylum seekers there are at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although it is listed for a particular one, for individual points as much as it is, but in total, how many asylum seekers there are at this point, or how much it costs, and how this financial structure is provided. From the report itself, in my opinion, it is, of course, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is very difficult to achieve this task in the context of standards. And I would recommend, by supporting these conclusions that are, which our commission here has suggested that the Council of Ministers review our objective capabilities by respecting the international conventions and obligations that we have made, but to review to what level and what we can provide on this plan. I am personally witnessing that these are the conditions below each level, at least in those centers where I've been in circumstances. 136 and a little suggestion in this report. I don't think they should use expressions to visit, so we just accept asylum seekers, not host and they don't visit our country, but for trouble or other different reasons they come to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8732	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Špirić Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8733	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, I think my proposal is to adopt this report, because of course this is what members of Parliament and the Commission have set up for asylum centres. But I think the problems with asylum centres are much, much deeper, and I don't think this report will solve asylum seekers' problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that sense I think it would be good if we asked the rest of the ministry for a report in which they think that this problem, which is evident, can be solved in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A time has passed for war and war-related deaths when asylum seekers were on all sides in Bosnia and Herzegovina, either of course and the manipulators, or manipulative activities related to cost-and-covering, etc. that we are now in an entirely new situation and I think I also have contracts on a RAD mission and we have a secure border and I think there is no need for there to be a mockery in Bosnia and Herzegovina called asylum centres. Bosnia and Herzegovina must meet international and European standards and if it is to build a good asylum centre that will be in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of different contracts, I think what we now have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least this picture and this state of asylum centres should be changed. That is why I would be in order to adopt this report, but to ask the rest of the ministry for a way to address this burning problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that the Council can present its vision to us. This is a picture found by the Commission of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8734	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who else wants to talk? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hereby conclude the debate on this agenda, since no one has answered for the debate. I think Mr. Belkić and Špirić's proposals are a clue to what the Commission itself is suggesting. They only specify certain things from the Commission's views. Mr. Belkić is asking for an exact number that does not result, and the gentleman, how much it costs, and Mr. Špirić suggests that we ask the Council of Ministers for an opinion or attitude when and in what way he intends to resolve this issue of asylum centres. 137 So, I propose the next conclusion under 1. to adopt, of course, this report of our commission. Let that be defined in language and grammar as it should be, that is the essence of point 1 and tačka 2 of the Council of Ministers' request for one piece of information to be contained and this is what Mr Belkić was talking about, and this is what Mr Špirić was talking about. So information on the number and how much it costs and how much it costs when and how it's going to solve this. That's my suggestion if you don't want to discuss the conclusion, I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favor of this conclusion? This is the first point of the conclusion, the Commission's report is adopted, and the second point is this, Nikola. Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I find the House unanimously with 37 votes for no votes against and without abstentions has adopted this conclusion as well. We're going to the 20th item of the agenda, pardon the 24th item of the agenda. That's the information we asked for last time during the session, the information that we had during the session, so last time we didn't get here because we had a discussion about other topics. This is now the sequel to session Ad. 24. Information from the Council of Ministers on activities in the construction of Corridor Vc Here is Minister of Transport and Communications in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Branko Dokić. I give him my word to give us information.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8735	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, it is my pleasure to allow you in the shortest lines, to continue with the shortest lines of knowledge of the current activities of the Council of Ministers, which relate to the creation of conditions for us to take the highway to the Corridor Vc. At first, I would like to remind you that it is one of the Pan European corridors connecting the Baltic and Adriatic Sea and passing through Bosnia and Herzegovina in the length of some 330 kilometers depending on the option selected in parts where there are still options when defining the route of the highway. The undeveloped part of the corridor is from Budapest to Ploč and we have had more talks with representatives of Croatia in the past few months, as well as during the last visit of the government representatives 138 of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Račan. A meeting of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's expert groups was scheduled for 25th of this month in Osijek, where accession points will be held in the north and south, so at the borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and most likely in half of August will be one meeting at the level of the Ministers of Communication and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia and Hungary where we should take up a joint strategy on Corridor Vc on joint performances in the international financial institutions of the Stability Pact, etc. etc. So one joint promotion and activity to build this Vc corridor. I must say, the Council of Ministers has also formed a co-ordination team for the highway to Corridor Vc. The team is composed of the following, let me put it this way, it is not by name and last name, and it is headed by the Council of Ministers, as the chairman of the Co-ordination Team, the Minister of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers of BiH is his deputy, and the other members are the Resorial Ministers of Communications and Transport, Resort Ministers of Finance Entities, then Ministers in Entity Governments for Spatial Planning and Construction, as they are already called, which is not important, of course Minister of Finance and Treasury in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our State Co-ordinator at the Stability Pact and one representative of the Association for Infrastructure Development. So one representative of the NGO, and the Ministry of Communications and Transport, that is, formed an expert team that is composed of 7 experts, of course respecting BiH's realities from all three people and representing all regions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this expert team is not only for the highway to Corridor Vc, but for highways and fast roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we need both a short-term and long-term strategy to build highways and fast roads. Because Corridor Vc can only be a spine, let's say more ribs to then do one body and present a functional transport network that we need to detach ourselves for. What interests you most is the activities related to an initiative by a Bosnian Herzegovian Malaysian firm. Namely, this initiative for concessions on how to build a highway is first referred to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency in an unofficial form where it is expressed, so let me just say just preparedness to get into this job. I must say that the Presidency has insisted on the Council of Ministers to raise this issue and a trail of it has formed both a co-ordination team and an expert team and I have had talks in the Bureau with members of the Presidency where they rushed to take certain positions and decisions. Of course, for all time it takes, everything has to enter the legal form and here are the conditions so that 15 days ago the Council of Ministers accepted the initiative and the Council of Ministers accepted one, one response made by the Ministry of Communications and Transport to the company BOSMAL which gives it the opportunity to sit down and discuss the concession contract in the coming period. What is it that BOSMAL offers? She offered to build a car road in full profile for 5 years, all 330 kilometers, to give it a deadline for the first year of financial credibility, so to speak and preparedness of 4 months, and in that time, they provide 300 million euros needed for the making of studies and projects for that highway, because other than individual some segmental, or partial solutions, we still do not have a 139 solution of property legal relations and if they ensure that they sit down and discuss the concession contract. So the Council of Ministers is plenary in principle, however you wish to accept such an initiative, because there is also a legal basis for its acceptance. That legal basis is in the membership, I think it's Article 25. Bosnia and Herzegovina's concession law published in the Official Messenger of BiH on 7 November 2002, which envisions the possibility of awarding a concession based on a self-initiative offer without a public tender. So that legal basis exists. The resolution ministry in this case is the Ministry of Communications and Transport should assess that there is a public interest in concessions and that is what the ministry has established. So this condition has been acquired so that we can talk about this. In the meantime, I have to say that we got more, I'd say quite well-intentioned, I won't say the warnings, but the suggestion to take care of this or that, so we have some suggestions like that. The World Bank. I have to say, we've put it all in that letter of answer before. I also have to point out that in the last few months we have had a series of meetings with experts from the Republic of Croatia where we discussed their experiences, so you probably know that the Ministry of Communications and Transport organized a professional seminar in Mostar some months ago and a half ago where the subject of the seminar was that – the experience of Croatia in the construction of highways, where we had 12 presentations of their experts and I think that it really, indeed, was useful for us to create this strategy and to create this letter. And I say not only that seminar, but there were other meetings. Well, here, for example. And the World Bank warns us that we have to make sure that citizens can pay to call it toll, or if they're willing to pay for it. In one point in the first sentence, we have stated that it is understood that the concessionary will provide or leave now an alternative path on which tolls will not be paid. In addition, in this answer, we have fenced ourselves against any obligation to raise financial resources, so here I am going to read you this segment so you don't interpret it, because I think it's very important in our definition that we go this way. - The BiH Council of Ministers will not discuss, issue, assign, and give consent or consent to any guarantee or belief that will bind it in any way, if BOSMAL DOO would thus allow access to financial packages for the construction of the Corridor Vc highway. The Council of Ministers will not give any guarantees on the size of the traffic, the minimum expected traffic or any other guarantee for the level of expected revenue in the concession period or any other advantage besides those belonging to the investor under the provisions of the applicable laws. We have also installed a paragraph in our answer requesting that the selection of contractors be made public through the way, let's call it transparent tenders and prefer domestic participation if domestic companies are competitive and, of course, are not here and read it, so these services are available on the domestic market and have priority treatment and advantage in other offers, because we Corridor Vc do not look just as a solution to the transport problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I would say wider in the region. Indeed, it is 140 European, Pan European Corridor, but it is indeed an excellent possibility or a springboard, however you want for the rapid development of the economy, for the employment of complete construction infrastructure and not only of building infrastructure, when you take everything that goes along the highway then it is an excellent opportunity for one to enter into Bosnia and Herzegovina, to inject, however you will, somewhere around EUR 2.5 billion. So I don't need to explain. So, what's now at this point, what's our position? BOSMAL has an obligation over the next four months to provide EUR 300 million needed for studies, there are more, projects and resolution of property legal relations and, at the same time, to provide a guarantee financial guarantee that it is capable of entering the project and that it can implement it financially. Only now do we sit with them and talk about the elements of the concession agreement, and the green light for concessions is supposed to give the non-existent concession commission at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one of the tasks and us in the Council of Ministers and you here, if we take this job seriously, and I take it extremely seriously as an excellent chance for Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that very quickly, at the latest within the next month, it is the next month that Bosnia and Herzegovina's concession commission. According to the concession law, it is she who will say the Ministry of Communications and Transport has the right and can talk to anyone, they are not talking to who, that the highway is built through concession. When they give it, if these elements I told you are satisfied, the Ministry of Communications and Transport will also sit with experts and experts to make concessions contracts. So, once again, I want to emphasise -- no obligation has been made, nothing binding is signed. We've opened the door with this, or more specifically we've unearthed the door to a company that thinks it's capable of doing this job the way I told you. I want more, though I can see that your patience is at an end, but allow me just a few more minutes. Why did the Ministry of Communications and Transport estimate that at this point in time for Bosnia and Herzegovina it is a public interest. And I can say that in the talks with the representatives of all institutions responsible for this state-level business and at the entity level, we got the consent to do so. This is the fastest way to build a highway. So we're given a chance now as things stand to be done in 20 years. It is certain that those who understand themselves well in this business, even if they understand in this business, will say that it is too short. If you're asking me for my personal opinion, I think it's a really fantastic short notice. But in this offer, which has been delivered to us explicitly states that it intends to start at 20 jobs, 20 points, and if the funds are provided, then it is still possible to respect that deadline. Another way we do things, and we do things parallelly. So we didn't rely on this as the only way to build a highway. We negotiate with banks about credit participation, and here and you know, and there are self-initiative, or BiH activities. I would first of all point out what was completed ten days ago, a 12km highway in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am also using this opportunity for colleagues from the federal ministry and those who have decided to do so, congratulations. And it's not just that. This month 141 is planned to open a public tender for a continuation of this car 8 km. We're talking to world banks, European banks, to be precise about the bypass, building a bypass around Sarajevo, and there's a feasibility study at the end. We are talking about the highway Banja Luka-Gradiška and there is a feasibility study in progress as these two go along with each other we expect by the end of this year that we will have all the elements to talk to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and in the first quarter of next year we sign a credit arrangement for these two highways. But that credit arrangement will also require the IMF's consent. If we were to opt out, if we had no offers for concessions ways to run the highway on Corridor Vc, it is quite certain that feasibility studies would show that it is not economically justified to build a highway full of profile. Oh, on many shares it would be, it would be a fast road, not a highway. Because international financial institutions are seeking to meet certain economic criteria in order to enter into a credit arrangement at all. If you go in the concession way of building, then that responsibility is on the one where the concessions are given. So, in this case, if we're going the concession route, either this firm, or anyone else, then it's our deal that it's going to be. Whether it's full profile or not. I am optimistic that in the next 10 years, the team and possibly full profile of the highway will pass a sufficient number of vehicles to meet the frequency and those criteria that Europe requires to meet. And only at the end of a few more sentences regarding this meeting with the Croatian delegation at the highest level. I think the media has misread some of the messages spoken at that meeting. The Croatian side has made it clear and open that it is a strategic issue for them, too. Among other things, because this route connects the eastern part of Croatia with the southern part of Croatia. That Croatia is ready to help us in all respects and eyesights. That they'll send us a model as well as they think it's optimal to build a highway. I've already told you we've had contact conversations and we know their models. It was not about concession offers, in this sense how it was interpreted in the media even though at the press conference, but only at the press conference was one interpretation that could be understood, but in terms of this, if there is a public tender, Croatia might also report that it builds a highway through concessions. So here's why you're full of information to know that's how it is. I want to underline once again, the concession law allows us to consider and make a self-initiative offer. Thank you for your attention, this time so much. I'd like to talk to you about the concession agreement in half a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8736	I thank Minister Dokić for this information. You see, like this, this was, we were looking for information, we got information. You can, if you want to ask the Minister a question, here comes Mr Lagumdžija. 142 I don't know if there's any point in having a debate about this. I mean, we've been looking for information like Parliament, but here's what I'm gonna do. It's a question. Mr. Gligorić, here's Mr. Raguž. Here's Mr. Bešlagić. Questions. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8737	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I, when I thought that my surprise would end up at the wonders that I had been hearing this information from the minister, Mr. Chairman, you were still really opening room for new misunderstandings with your idea at all that we were looking for this information just to hear the information about this. If the only purpose of what we've heard so far is to hear this, then I as the man who asked for it would never ask for this information, because unfortunately we know more from statements that we could tonically hear from the people who run this country about this, than we've heard now. An investment that's called a five-billion-dollar investment. I'm sure there'd be serious debates about that. That's about how much investment in America would be compared to this one of ours. The three presidents of the United States changed by having a debate on a single project that was the biggest of the three billion dollars since then, in late '90s. and mid-1990s. A year. The whole of America is about how she's been having debates and conversations. We here seem to have to get the information that we've been given here. I don't consider this the information we needed, nor did I ask for this, nor did I believe that this House was looking for something like this. It would be natural if we had received one serious written information in which we would have received much more facts and elements, in which we should stand what has been done so far here in the assembly of this council of ministers, which are dilemmas, and dilemmas exist. What are the alternatives that appear in such dilemmas? What are these directions that would possibly suggest or accept this council of ministers under their mandate? What is the dynamic that is expected in some perspective? And who and what is he supposed to do in all this? We could hear here that Corridor Vc is important and that we need him. There's no dilemma about it long ago in this country. We were not interested in BOSMAL at all, at least as I heard it most interested us, not BOSMAL is not the thing that interests us most. We are interested in how to reach what is the goal in the country and how, as was the reason why counterpart Dokić was not when we asked, as was Prime Minister Terzić when we asked for that information. As Parliament, we wanted to engage in an active relationship in a way that is appropriate to each Parliament when it comes to such capital projects for future generations. The fact that the concession can be at 20, 30, 40, so maybe 50 years is in favour of us selling one 143 big chance of this country, we're selling something that should surely outlive us and benefit a few generations. We can't make a decision like that based on what we've had so far. So Corridor Vc is certainly a matter of the type of future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At what rate we go into it, at that rate, this country will develop. We all know that well. But that's why I'd like to ask you here in preparation for the real information we need to get, and I suggest that we conclude today that we get the right information. Comrade Dokić, don't be angry, but it's not appropriate for you to go out for this pay phone and talk to us about this. This is a much more serious thing, this was like a very high-quality discussion, possibly an answer to some questions. But what happened, what we expected to win. There are a few questions here that are now being raised in public. Maybe even it's a good thing we didn't talk about this last time. Meanwhile, a visit to Croatia's delegation led by Prime Minister Račan, who only created new dilemmas that we did not have 15 days ago. And that's why we need to talk more seriously about it. A dilemma that needs to be resolved that we need to get basic information from the Council of Ministers. Is that a tender or is that some other way? If it's a tender, then it's a tender for what? Is that for accessing DIBIEFO as it is here in one of the given information, or is it for some quite other approach, like AIT, or which other, I'm not getting into it now? We'll talk about her when there's a real debate. If that's a tender, is that a funding tender? Or is it a tender for construction? Is that a tender in which we know what we're calling a tender? Is it our commitment to keep up with the world's financial institutions? Are all the doors closed? They were closed to us. Maybe they're open now. Or is it an option to go to commercial banks and commercial engagements, and in the end, if you get into one such arrangement that you're talking about, which I think you should give, in any case, a chance to get into it, is that something that will open up the possibility that in 2, 3, or 5 years, when the financial situation in this country is fixed? I guess that's what we believe is going to happen, then open up a model that will allow our capital, our banks, and maybe the state with its bonds, etc. That's all the questions we need to get an answer to before we get into more serious arrangements. What's the role of the state in this? Is the state even an investor? And whether the state, if it isn't an investor at all, is the state going to be an investor in some process ahead of us if it strengthens to be a co-investor. That's what you guys should talk about. They're too serious dilemmas for much less countries, especially for as big as we are. What's the role of the BH firm in construction? Look, when we give some concession to fund it, he chooses what he does next. Are we going to do something about it and how we think about it? Are we going to do some active policy work that we need to adopt at different levels? The price of construction and the length of concession, be careful about that, these are very serious things. Will the concession be 10 years or 5 times over? That's a huge difference. Not only are we selling a concession for several generations that haven't even been born yet, but we're selling the concession for not knowing how many generations that haven't even been born. 144 These are all the answers we need to get to Mr. Džaferović in the information I expected, and since you're looking at me, I feel like you know, I'd be so glad to put it on paper and it would be easier for us. Then what happens
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8738	The views speak more than words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8739	Then what happens, Mr. Džaferović's view is always more than his words, Mr. Raguž, and you seem to need words more.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8740	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8741	Thank you very much. Your deputy's giving me a pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8742	And you don't need to look back at us at all, we're doing our job here, you're doing your job. Proceed with the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8743	Thank you. So we're interested in answering these questions with intent, I repeat once again, the intention I expressed then, to give this country a chance to come up with the best solution. We need to reach some kind of broader consensus on this. And it's also necessary for the people who come here. Today it's BOSMAL, yesterday it was BEHTEL, tomorrow it'll be BEHTA, it was BUIG, and I don't know who all the companies that defiled here are either. If we don't get serious, they won't be serious either. And that's why we have to show it. So the world of this information was completely different from what we agreed today. So let's bring this to an end. It's clear as a day that there's a legal basis to go this way. It never occurred to anyone that you did something illegal. But it's not just about having a legal basis. It's about that, there's a legal basis for some other models, so we also need to get out of it and see where we are. They also have answers here that are not yet known. The physiability of the study you mentioned, it needs to answer what the price will be, to see what the time of the concession will be, should give answers to the question of whether our side will participate in this physibility study. Because that physibilities study and how, I say, directs the further course of the agreed activities, then 145 of it and the realization. What's our participation in that study? Do we know for ourselves how much we don't believe in the study given by the Regulatory Agency for the Third Giesem Operator? Are we going to get another study tomorrow that we won't trust? And what's our part in all this? Also, what happens if they secure 300 million, and we let them move on, and then in a step I don't agree on? Will the state damage them for that 300 million? Or because we gave that 300 million we have to move on? That's all the answers we need to know before we go into it. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8744	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8745	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8746	Okay, Hasane, I believe you're making a comment about what you need 300 million dollars for.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8747	Please, please. Professor Muratović, please. Mr. Lagumdžija, come on. Come on, Mr. Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8748	The right to tell you is not logical, I really think we need it, even 300 million. Unfortunately, it takes us much less to start breathing, let alone 300 million. 300 million are huge money in every country in the world, except poor countries. They seem to be small money so easily manipulated and operated. When we start to appreciate 2, 3 million more, then as a state, as a state, we'll probably be a more successful state. BOSMAL needs to do something in a year. What happens after that year? What is the direction and what are the possible directions behind it? At the very least, this kind of diplomatic, come on, I don't want to use harsh words, but misunderstandings between the two prime ministers of our country and one neighbouring country on this issue is something that would be good if we knew little about what it was about. So, finally, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, with full gratitude for finally putting this on the agenda, and for giving us such information that has allowed us to get to the right one day when you take this more seriously, I would like to suggest that you, after the debate that will surely be held today, record what we have asked you all, and not to answer from our heads, so that on that basis, you can make us a serious information in which Parliament would discuss with the intention of getting to a better solution as soon as possible. Be assured what we're saying is only in the function of it. 146 And secondly, I suggest that the Council of Ministers also tell us in this information, in addition to what I have stated that should stand in it, how are we supposed to get to the concession committee? What is the dynamic of setting up a concession commission? And given the importance of this proposal, I would ask, I would ask the Council of Ministers to, if not conclude, consider preparing the Law on concessions for highways. I repeat the Road Law on highway concessions. Because it's too big a thing for a much richer country than we are. And this in itself is a question that should be and that there is no Law on highways, this project itself should be subject to an appropriate law that is adapted to the project itself because of the size it is concerned. And finally, Mr. Chairman, I really thank you again for letting me speak first, because unfortunately I have to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8749	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. This is usually the characteristic of those who terrorise Parliament, you know this one that makes it possible to do so immediately. Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić has a need to. Minister, please. Mr. Lagumdžija, you've finished the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8750	Well, I didn't. Right away, so you told me right away, you immediately told me to terrorise Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8751	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8752	No, I told you last time, because you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8753	No, I didn't tell you, I didn't tell you at all. Don't say that, Mr. Lagumdžija. I said, it's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8754	Mr. Džaferović, unfortunately I have to leave you this time, since I am going to Rome for a meeting of the Socialist International dedicated to Iraq and Palestine, where I am a prime minister, because I have time as an opposition MP for such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8755	Have a good trip, Mr. Lagumdžija. 147
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8756	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8757	Well, you see, Minister, I would also like all MPs to be from the beginning so that by the end of the session here, but obviously I don't have much influence on it, nor can I. You will get the Minister's word at the end, as it is called, when these questions are raised that they have, to address Parliament again. Mrs. Palavrić needs a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8758	Yeah, I'll replicate whether Mr. Lagumdžija is present or not. I have to say that he's not telling the truth when he says he wasn't interested in BOSMAL at all, because the request for information was set exactly when the BOSMAL was current. Then, I must also say that Mr Lagumdžija has read what he has prepared, hoping that the information really will not be complete, that there will be no real one, that someone who does not know his job and who is not able to say from his head what Minister Dokić really said here and gave complete and true information. His presentation unfortunately raised so many questions that, if he had read the Law on concessions, it would really not have to be asked, because many have already been answered by the minister, and the rest will be answered in the document when the document comes before the Parliamentary Assembly as the Law on concessions prescribes. And I can only say congratulations to Minister Dokić, thank God someone showed up who cares that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a connection to the world and that Bosnian Herzegovina builders are employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8759	Thank you. Please. May I have your attention, please? You'll get a natural word. The answer to the line of the minute, so Mr. Lagumdžija has it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8760	We were in Rome last week... you're going away for nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8761	Mrs. Palavrić, look at the magnetogram. Mr. Dokić can do it if he's interested. Mr. Dokić said that we, the parliamentarians, are most interested in BOSMAL. And I said, you can see in the magnetogram that we are not most interested in BOSMAL, but we are most interested in something else, and naturally Mrs Palavrić that we are interested in BOSMAL. And you claimed that I lied about this payphone, which is simply incorrect and watch what kind of dictionary you use, because if I told you when you lied, you'd go a long way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8762	Okay. Please, nice. For, next came Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Please just yes, please yes. Questions therefore, questions to the Minister, and then we will ask the Minister who listens here to answer questions. I would ask Mr. Lagumdžija to stay in the O.R. until we get answers from the minister to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8763	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to express my satisfaction that we are talking on this subject, the highway is needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no dilemma, because money will come into our banks, because it will run public works, and that means all of our construction and other infrastructures and, of course, our product will be cheaper, and the product that comes also so that it is really too much to talk about all the effects that we would have on the construction of the highway. In particular, if we had said that this information was good, it would have been good to have a discussion and to ask more concrete questions in order for the competent ministry and Minister Dokić to serve the code in the next activities they will have. This is what I would like to say well-intentionedly that there would be no new affair with regard to the fact that we were recognizable and I think that in the previous case when there was one business co-operation with BUIG, and previously at the Federation level, we were in part in Republika Srpska. In the Federation, even a pre-contract was signed with the company, and in the end it was not realised. It would not be good, therefore, to enter some business arrangements, and to end up with some other business partners as in this case. Last time someone said it was the first time the Council of Ministers raised the issue. I want to remind them that it wasn't the first time and it would be good in writing in written information afterwards to deliver the chronologically as it all was. And I can say, I was also a living participant as a minister of civil affairs and communication, at the time there was also the chairman of Mr. Martin Raguž, when we were also on the Council of Ministers' initiative, let's, in this case and the Presidency, went to have a conversation with BUIG, who is second in the Company World and she's usually working on Croatia, or she's been working, we've already had a chance to hear something, it's good to put on the continuance of the pursuit of whether, who's working on it all to get to the highway. 149 He would specifically ask the Minister, although there was something to say, and this is with the Republic of Croatia whether, let me put it this way, they are quite sincere, given that the Republic of Croatia and how interested in building the highway of the Ionian Highway and that it wants to get an international character for this path, unlike the Vc that has an international character, I think Helsinki '97. years, when it's definitely established. And the Ionian Highway isn't. And I think they're running a policy on that direction to make the Ionian Highway a priority, and that's how the Vc is just going to be a side activity in the next jobs. This should be meant in mind and have sincere conversations on the subject that it is indeed definitely removed, not to play in some way a game. Then, you have already responded about the alternative way, given that people who do not want to pay, the highway should be provided as it is in any other country, including France, and that should be taken into account. You've already spoken of it correctly. I think, as far as the concession itself is concerned, we need to support it, because it's the simplest way to get to the road without the country in debt, because we're a poor country so we can finance it. Concession is the only way, and much more developed countries actually use it than we do. Therefore, but it would be good if it were all transparent in the way it should be done, because we know how to make a problem of 10,000 marks in this country after the review report, it was not a tender and such things appear in public and therefore it would be good to conduct this legal procedure necessarily. And my question next is whether it is possible, Minister Dokić knows more from, when he was also Minister of Republika Srpska's Government, whether this Master plan of the Japanese government can be used in a summary that he is just infrastructured the structure of the traffic, aircraft and railways, on a road treatment, whether he could incoorate himself in all of this. Perhaps it would be a good thing to come up with practically these resources that are very important to us and to build a road. And whether the equipment, or the mechanism that would come here, would certainly not have the possibility and that, at least I'm in talks with BUIG has such a kind of special machine that would then remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know if you've come to that stage of conversation. It would also be important to train our companies to compete later on, and to keep it contained in this price. Here's how much I wanted to help, actually, in terms of questions raised with the fact that we need the highway and that the concession would actually be the only solution and with a request that we really take care of the public, because this ends. Last time Mr. Terzić said, I, you know, stressing as prime minister, said it was enough that the country's prime minister guarantees personally. We have to go into legal procedure, because wherever there is no procedure, there is anarchy and there is a national embarrassment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8764	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word. After that, prepare Mr. Hasan Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8765	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So an important question, I welcome the report and the information we have received, and I believe that this is the beginning of a serious procedure by the Council of Ministers on a life-long journey and a matter for Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the people in it. And this, these few comments of short or suggestion, I ask that in that context be understood. First, the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a legal basis on which everything related to the concession must be managed. So I think this Parliament needs to be the most responsible body for the adoption and implementation of the law to begin and today's debate on this. The law states in Article 4 that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is making a decision on the type and subject of concession as a flood of concessions granted and confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So Parliament has a direct role to play in confirming the concession and I want to highlight it here today. Article 25, on the basis of which the Ministry and Mr Minister, i.e. the Council, called for self-initiativeness, i.e. this possibility that, if no tender has been called for, the Ministry shall assess whether there is a public interest in that concession, it is a legal basis, but I do not know whether the conditions laid down in this Article 25 are met when it comes to this particular offer. And I ask Mr. Minister, because he says – the assessment of the proposal referred to in this paragraph takes into account the following: that the project proposed by the proposed concession can only be achieved if the design process, methodology or concept of engineering to which the bidder has exclusive rights is used. Who has found that this offer has, or that this firm, or any other company that will appear has exclusive rights? So that's one question that requires interpretation for this parliament. So the law provides only in exclusive situations such a possibility, only in the exclusive situations they need. And the third thing, and to make some contribution to what the Council is doing to the co-ordination team of the Council and the Minister, I think we need to do everything we can to form a concession committee, because gentlemen is absolutely illegal if this committee is not, it does not exist and if it does not perform its function, and it also approves of your actions and steps and concessions and proposes, and at this point we do not have at all. So I think it's a very important question and that without forming a commission, I'm afraid there's going to be more and more floating in one fog and I've decided to say it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8766	Thank you. Mr. Hasan Muratović, let Mr. Selim Bešlagić be prepared and then Nikola Špirić and then Minister after Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8767	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, allow me to express my opinion that we have received one very specific and very complete piece of information on this issue. And let me also express my satisfaction that the Council of Ministers is dealing with such huge problems in such an intense way as we saw today at these first two points of the agenda. I would very briefly like to comment on a few very important things. First the physibilities of the study. Whoever wants to obstruct the construction of roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina is looking for a feasibility study based on the number of cars passing through that corridor daily. I can immediately say that no one will do a physical study on that basis that will show justifiable construction of the road from here to the sea. But it's not the basis of physicality. Physicality is all the cost and all the gain. Other gains other than car toll outweigh the hundreds of benefits. So that's only one reason to obstruct. Second, the tender. Don't worry enough they have their representatives here all the companies that are interested in such a big deal. They'd stop it if they were competitive. They've all been visiting us, the ministries, they've been, you've been following the press, the ministers, the banks, the miracles. So they're all following it closely. If they could offer a better form, don't worry it would be here, you know how to prevent it. So there's obviously no more competitive offer for now. If someone offers you 300 million euros, that means 600 million marks, you have to be careful not to turn it away from that courage. And in that sense, we must lead our further activities with one such partner and with all other potentials. State, there were words here whether the state would be. The state was a 12km investor, and here he wants to be on another eight. As much as she can be an investor, no one's defending her, she'll pick up that part of the toll. Let him choose and keep his concession on that part. So that doesn't stop us on that road at all. So, what do I suggest? I suggest we accept the information and ask the Council of Ministers to proceed intensively until the final definition of the model and contract. Of course, by giving an opportunity to all those who are competitive in this business. Our competition can only help us to come up with the cheapest solution. But don't worry, competition takes care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8768	I thank Mr. Muratović. Mr. Bešlagić and Mr. Špirić will prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8769	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, if BOSMAL's offer is 300 million, then we need to know what he'll get for that 300 million. Secondly, I think we're very insecure in these discussions when we're talking about this project, and that the municipalities, cantons and other levels of government are being asked, Malta's not transparency for 10,000 marks. I think really, if we took it this way, it would be a total inconclusion of this Parliament. Not because I don't want to, here I am for BOSMAL, but if you let us see anything else, maybe there are some more BOSMALs. Please be sure to apply what binds the lower instance. I'm putting it out of one particular case. Mr. Minister, you have also listed the highway Banja Luka-Laktashi, you have listed the Sarajevo bypass, you have listed the C5 highway, and you have not listed the highway, or the fast road of Tuzla-Osje. And for that road Tuzla-Osje Tuzla canton has been doing documentation for 5 years, launched by an international tender, 5 bidders, made a short list of 3 tenders purchased. The process of identifying property relations, one of the most difficult processes we expect, is not true that it can be done in 5 years. I'm telling you that. So, please, I'm just asking for the legality so we can just build road C5. I'm afraid the way we're taking this initiative, we're gonna run into each other, and in five months, somebody's gonna come in and slap us in the ears, or in our ears, and there's nothing out of it. And I want it first, because I can't go through Tuzla-Sarajev anymore, you understand 2.5, if I'm lucky. So please understand that none of the Pralament members here are against that corridor, but let us if anything else respects the legality that will lead us to the rapid construction of this highway. Believe me, it's not easy for you. I know that. I know what we're doing here. And that's why we'd need that fast road law when I don't get to canton level so I have to go talk to another canton about it right now. We also connected Tuzlan canton and nuts county and Brcko District. And that's it. But imagine if we had that law to give us that energy. He's got interested people. Mr. Muratović has interested in the Tuzla-Ores trip three have come forward to participate with concessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8770	I want you to make a deal right away to build it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8771	Well, I can't make a deal because I'm about to be replaced by Pedi Eždaun, who said we're incapable of making our C5 in 100 years, and we're incompetent because we're gonna get caught by the ears because they're gonna say we didn't do the tender documentation, or the transparency of that system. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm Bosmal, and I thank him 153 from me. But the bottom line is I'm afraid that because of this illegality, we're going to lose both direction C5 and this variant that we've been talking about and all the other possible variations.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8772	Thank you. I would only ask, please be nice, so this is information and for that information, if someone is not clear, let the minister ask. That's how the agenda is addressed, and I'm not going to step down from that. Don't have any discussion. Please be brief. After this we have a session, 16. We won't part until we finish the 16th session so you know well. Here you go. We won't, so the 16th session is after this. One more point, then the 16th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8773	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, I will try, of course, briefly and that is lucky, as is not when in this country we talk about an investment of EUR 5 billion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8774	He didn't come out for a pay phone. Watch out. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8775	Here's 4.5.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8776	He didn't come out for a pay phone 16 million dollars a mile, such a road in the world wasn't built, counting the tunnel under the Lamanche. They're for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8777	Please, Professor Muratović. Okay. Enough, please don't. Come out for a pay phone. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8778	He didn't come out for a pay phone. We can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8779	hasane, please when it's over, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8780	Please nice, so here's 25, that's still talking about something that's more tragic. From 2.5 billion to 5 billion. Now that's a framework in which the entire political life of this country is moving. So from 2.5 to 5 and no one knows how much. And we think we're serious because we don't know or have an estimate. If it were so lucky about capital projects, it would be discussed in a different way. And that's why I can't figure out if we've been doing all day, it makes us do important things, and this is the important thing, and I think when we're doing important things that need to be tolerated, patient and with arguments to talk. I don't see the need for anxiety. It seems to me that my colleague Lagumdžija has asked hundreds of questions. And maybe he didn't ask everything again. So we don't get caught up in capital investments. I think it's the right way, but no hard feelings. I don't believe he's asking a man to provoke someone. I don't think so. What bothers me, what bothers me is, when we had the last session of Parliament? On June 27th, from June 27th to July 16, it was 20 days, so this is a serious project and we could really get written information as MPs with all the dilemmas that the ministry has and the Council of Ministers has, if someone wants to inform us as MPs and Parliament, if someone wants us to give useful suggestions. I am not prepared to take any stand on such projects based on the oral presentation of my distinguished colleague, Mr Dokić. We're not making any decisions today about any concession. So today we don't decide. And I think that, first of all, the Ministry must have it, and then Parliament must have written a note asking for information to discuss something and take views. Therefore, I pray, therefore, by appreciating everything that Minister Dokić said, so esteeming everything he said that this Parliament should be informed in written information about this project and that Parliament must be kept informed. So they don't oralize information, because we're not jukeboxes, but written clues to projects like this should stay. Of course there are different dilemmas. I don't really talk about companies because I don't even know what the situation is. But you see this when we're talking, I really don't think there's a need to have a debate so that someone backs out of work and that's Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8781	Any questions, Nikola? Ask. Let's hear the question. Let's go to people's questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8782	Wait till you ask a question, I need to get information so they can hook up. why here everything that's been debated is being seen as someone against Corridor Vc. I can't figure it out. I don't get it. So, there is a need to build, there is a need to conduct activities, there are activities taken by the Council of Ministers and I demand that this information in writing come before Parliament, and I don't think that 155 of us today, so we had a oral, oral explanation of the Minister but we didn't have written information and in that sense my support for Mr Lagundžija's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8783	Okay. Thank you. So, please let us bring an end to this, so if something is not clear to anyone, there is an opportunity to ask a man a question, the minister is here. Mr. Duraković will respond. After that, five more six people checked in, and I think we're having a discussion, and then people are applying for discussions. Please, after this item of the agenda, we will introduce, therefore, this must be done by whoever does not deliver the ballot here will not be registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8784	Mr. Chairman, I don't think there's much to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8785	Go ahead, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8786	First, to show satisfaction at a very comprehensive exhibition and rarely the good I have heard in the various parliaments of Minister Dokić. Well, I don't know what that vaccination is eating in writing or oral form, because we don't decide anything here today. This is information for our Parliament and I thank him for his very comprehensive, thorough, professional explanation. And secondly, I support what Lagundžija suggested. Of course, you have to ask a lot of questions, but I guess that's for the next stage when we decide what we're about to do, but I also support what Hasan just said. People are big for Japan when someone offers a 300 million ticket blast. It's huge money for this country. If we treat each other so insubordinately, then I doubt the good intentions. Well, then somebody's so scared that we don't have a trip at all. And the only way to get to that path is concessions, and we end up with the concession law and everything's transparent, and everything's going to be legal, and I don't see that there's anything that anyone would say now anyway. Oh, my Bog. Such a gallant offer to refuse, it's for me I'm not an economist but insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8787	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Let Mr. Novaković be prepared afterwards, Mr. Jahić, and then Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović. They're all reported. I mean this. Please, 156, I'm not burdening myself, but I'm thinking, go ahead. Let's just see where we can fix the mistake of where Ljilja is. Good behind Zorić, Mrs Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8788	I'm ready to let ljilju in front of me. This way, Mr. Chairman, I've been given the agenda where the third point of the Council of Ministers' report on Corridor Vc is written, and here's the one that's going through the dilemma whether that information is written, is that the oral part of me is all one thing. The report I heard from Dokić, the minister is very good, but he would not be extremely praised, nor dissuaded, as some do here. So, what's good about what the minister could and should have told us, he said here and my opinion is here that I would not ask it in the form of a question is that there should be a public tender for it and that Parliament should play an active role. So, if the law allows it not to be public, I guess it doesn't bother to be public. Of the 300 million euros, of course it's big money for everyone, but this is about one big project, a very important project. Maybe there's a company that'd make it cheaper. I read today an interview by our ambassador to Zagreb Mr. Dizdarević who gave me a quality interview that advocates it also to be public, who said that the gentlemen from Zagreb when the offer was offered, to help and who announced that it would only be announced if it was a public tender, and if it did not say it was not serious. I also don't think it's serious if it's not a public competition, even looking from the perspective of Bosmal. Why Bosmal needs something to stay in the air and keep something out of order, I think it'll probably be that firm if it's all open and public and transparent and get that job if it's really about quality and if it's really about the capital that's being talked about here. Corridor Vc is vital, national however you want the interest of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and Hungary and so that it does not speak further, etc.itd. I would, of course, don't get me wrong here at all. I don't agree with everything Mr. Račan does and what his government does, but I totally agree with him here. Well, unfortunately, I agree with most of the questions that Mr Lagundžija said here. I'm saying, unfortunately, because I'm joking a little bit here, but I'd really like it because since the establishment of this agenda, of course, someone here would say what would have been done last June 27th on the agenda, as it was agreed, then they would have accepted oral information, but I was about 15 days ahead of myself in preparation for 157 of this topic, and then Mr. Račan and his associates visited Sarajevo and began various statements of both in the media on the subject, so I'd say that there were both negative energies out there and from members of our Council of Ministers. And there's Mr. Lagundžija right when he says he heard it in tone. So, we don't need to reevaluate things Corridor Vc is very important if it can be built, and I believe and think that in five years, then there's really no need to rush and it doesn't matter whether it's over in the ninth or the twelfth or the month two thousand and eight or it's over in the third month of two thousand nine in the fall. So it is a serious expensive project and we should all help and my proposal is here that this Parliament is actively involved to receive a report next time. Here's what I accept as information and that the competent authority is calling this parliamentary assembly this concession committee. If not, the Parliamentary Assembly is the Council of Ministers that we mark this in one conclusion as a competent body to be appointed. So, this concession committee and here's my proposal is concrete that an extended college that seems to be next week, this one we take our stand on and prepare for one such important Commission and one such important action. I hope that there will be hearing between us and the Council of Ministers and Bosmal to do so in one public, transparent way so that not all the other questionnaires and stains will not be followed, because indeed 5 billion marks or 2.5 billion euros is money that I don't know 2 or 3 budgets of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina this one, perhaps I don't even know whether I've calculated exactly that we would be able to easily or only get information about it or confirm it at Parliament, because if the Council of Ministers chosen by such a device is difficult to do something post-festum and I think it would be good to have before any decision or signed contract on this kind of development of this home and bring conclusions and such a contract and approval, but before signing, not after signing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8789	Mrs. Milićević. Please, I won't have anything to warn you. I mean, they say how much they want to talk. I've said the question a hundred times, and then they tell me I'm nervous, I'm not nervous, I'm warning. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8790	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr. Dokić for the information we have received and to say that we believe that this information should be accepted or not accepted that there is no need for us to express ourselves in this regard as it is exposed and we believe that this is a complete one of the information and that our House of Representatives should see what it can do, therefore, on a matter that remains open, which the Minister said therefore, we do not have the Commission for concessions whether to include our commission to work on those 158 blanks, which exist in order to legally round up and meet any assumptions about this great work that awaits us. I want to ask our minister about a corridor that's not a toilet but would join the Corridor Vc. What's this about?? I have a document here, it's a final declaration after the 3rd meeting of the Adriatic Ionian Initiative. We know that our Member State of the Adriatic Ionian Group is one of the Member States. At this meeting held in May, a declaration was brought where other than the regional and European dimensions of political and security aspects we have economic, social and cultural issues. Point 18, which expresses satisfaction with co-operation, the Talijan have established a secretariat for the PAN-European Transport Corridors, and is called for the start of activities with a special focus on the Adriatic Ionian Road. So that would go from Trieste to Greece. I'm curious, we're a state that's interested, it would enter Herzegovina. I wonder if our ministry has taken advantage of these meetings so far with neighbouring states? There's some of them going through the Corridor Vc. What can we expect from that? What is this route and what will Bosnia and Herzegovina do? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8791	I thank Mrs. Milićević, and now Mr. Novaković has the word, and I thank Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8792	Thank you. So we've all pointed out here the importance of building this highway on Corridor Vc, but it seems to me that we always have hundreds of reasons to find out that we wouldn't do something and there's always a few reasons and there's always a way to do something and move forward. I want to say that this information, in addition to being professional, quality and in a fine way presented, is therefore a very important stage in which this project is located. So at this stage where the project is at this information refers to this stage. We're not in the concession phase, we're not in the tendering phase for contractors, so we're not in that phase. And certainly when it comes to this stage, the stage of concession that Parliament will play its part as defined by Article 4 of this law. Surely, when the field work is to be done, there will be a public competition for these performances, etc., etc. So what's important and what we all need to know here is 159, and that's what the minister told us, so there's a legal basis for doing this the way the Council of Ministers designed it. And that is, therefore, a self-initiative offer from one of the companies. So any other companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and outside Bosnia and Herzegovina could also offer an offer. As far as I understand well in this offer, this company is obliged to be a financier and there are also certain stages, certain stages, therefore, of the finance and that they will be in debt. So Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state will not be in charge of any marks. So all that risk is borne in this case by this company, so Bosmal. And for that, it doesn't seem to me the same as if we're going to be in charge as a state. One thing, then, after the Council of Ministers gave a positive answer to this, this firm is being questioned by those 3 million euros. Exactly, the minister counted three things to do, why these funds were allocated. So that's for building project documentation, and that's why we don't know exactly where that path is going to go. We'll give it as you know based on satellite footage, etc. The path of the road. So, for building project documentation. Another thing here is whether the physibilities of the studio and these other studies and the third resolution of property legal relations. So, someone is coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina, bringing in appropriate funds, he will do a pathway for those funds, project documentation, physibilities study, solve property legal relations without any involvement, so the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And so we ask the question why, how and how. In any case, then only after that comes and Parliament has a role to play in making a decision on the concession for how many years, etc.itd. So, in my opinion, I must first of all support whether to adopt this information, receive this information to the knowledge, should be supported by the Council of Ministers on this project and normal Parliament will be involved in this procedure when the time is right. And it's also interesting what Mr. Bešlagić suggested. I think that the Council of Ministers, or the Resord Ministry, in the coming period may have developed a road construction strategy, the fast roads here were the proposal of Oresje Tuzla Orasje, so we see what it is that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be doing in the next period probably has and then we have to eat in that plan of ours to solve it in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8793	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mr. Sead Avdić has the word to prepare more Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmeotvić, that's all we have reported. After that, they would ask the minister to speak, please. 160
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8794	My koleginica Members, my fellow Members, I will not simply explain or discuss but simply say one sentence. I think that the House of Representatives does not ask the question of who is for, who is against Corridor Vc but simply some other issues, and that is primarily that the way is done by international standards with a full degree of transparency, etc. It means we're all for Corridor VC and there's no doubt about it. There are two questions in my mind. One question, how many offers that are partly accepted by the Council of Ministers towards Bosmal, amounting to EUR 3oo million intended for the production of the project documentation, means from study to implementation documentation and the resolution of property legal relations, the Council of Ministers undertakes in the further concession procedure on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one essential question whether there are such simple obligations and in what sense simply Bosmal can expect the job to be done. That's one fundamental question and another question. If we want to do this job to the end transparently, to lead it as a normal small country but simply a country that goes towards European integration, which makes sense to respect the simple procedure of international standards in this business, and it is the only way out of this situation that the vjeće of Ministers prepares for us the Law on the Vc Corridor and inside everything that needs to be simply defined by law and nothing else, and that law will be adopted at Parliament because it will come simply attesting to the House of Representatives simply contracts on concessions that the Council of Ministers will prepare together with the firm that will be chosen. So from this situation, it is not very easy to come out, and we think that Parliament has a great right to know all the information in this context means these two, one is a proposal and the other is a question of how much BiH authorities commit these, these EUR 3o million granted by Bosmal for the resolution of property legal relations and project documentation on the resolution of property legal relations implies the continuation of the Bosmal in terms of obtaining concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8795	Thank you, Seade. Thank you especially for being brief. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8796	I thank the chairman, with one note that I particularly appreciate your patience to welcome the end of the discussion. Most of today's discussions would probably have been quite different.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8797	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to you Azra MPs please kindly let us listen to our colleague what he says at the pay phone, for we have listened to everyone else. After that, we'll finish this one more item on the agenda and then we'll give it a break. You'll have time to talk. Please, or if you want a break right now, there's no problem, but as long as we're in the O.R. to listen to each other. I'm asking you to take care of it. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8798	I thank you if I look like a colleague to you. Perhaps today's discussion, most of today's discussions would have had a completely different, different feature if we'd read the concession law carefully. And let me tell you about some important things, but since they're related to the information we've heard from the Resort Minister for the Opinion of Conclusions, I'd like to remind you of some things. The first Law on concessions is the biggest reason for the adoption of the Law on concessions was the Koridor Vc. He came into force with your mandate, at the end of last year, or the beginning of this year, and nothing was done by law in the implementation of the concession law. Unfortunately. Here is a member of the 3rd law, which speaks to the definitions within the meaning of this law, very clearly says that the concession means the right to be granted in order to ensure the construction of an infrared structure within the deadlines and under the conditions agreed between the concessionary and the concessionary. Therefore, it will only be deadlines and procedures, namely the conditions of which Lagundžija spoke only with the subject of a possible concession agreement. The second member of Article 4(1) says the Council of Ministers makes decisions on the type and subject of concession as well as the scope of concessions awarded and confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there is nothing the Council of Ministers can do without the final decision of the Parliamentary Assembly. Ćlan 5 of the Law states that the Commission for concessions is an independent regulatory body. We have to keep an eye on that. Ćlan 8 speaks in paragraph 1 about the appointment of members of the Commission. Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a proposal from the Council of 162 ministers. So what needs to be done urgently by the Council of Ministers is to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly the appointment of members of the Commission. And a member of the 31st Commission on the first composition, which is the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says among other things that in the first composition, the members of the Commission are named for one from the Federation of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia for five years, I would like to call one member from the Federation of Republika Srpska for three years, etc. and the President of the Commission is a foreign citizen, appointed by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so until this procedure is implemented to me on concessions and concession procedures we cannot even discuss. Furthermore, I consider it a very important reminder of Article 21 which says that the body of which is the relevantness, activity and owner of the facilities, etc. for the award of a concession before the public connection of potential tenderers, they shall be obliged to produce a study to be provided to the Commission for consideration and approval. You can't submit any studies to anyone or anyone else's study until they've appointed that body, or commission. So, procedurally, what I find particularly important is, and a reminder of Article 25 which speaks of a self-initiative offer, therefore, with the obligation of tendering and alternative option, which is that, when assessing the proposal, the ministry may, or the bidder of the relevant ministry, submit a proposal for a concession, which, on occasion, is a case with Bosmal, for which no tender is called, but the ministry assesses whether there is an interest in that concession, with a reminder that the ministry is applying for a commission to grant a concession. Therefore, the Ministry must not and cannot make a decision on the concession or award of the concession. In this regard, let me also suggest that on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs, we take this information to our attention today. We didn't have any written documents to vote for information or not to vote. So, we received information from the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolute Ministry, firstly, an urgent proposal for the names of the members of the concession committee and by the OHR, namely the High Representative of the President's proposal, which we are obliged to do, given that it is the first composition of the concession commission. Secondly, what I would like to propose after today's debate to the Registrar, which is that for the next session of both parliaments, in view of all the discussions, dilemmas and issues that have been highlighted today, the 5c corridor for these other issues should remain for the second time, because the subject is corridor 5c. Dilem, or open questions. First, does Corridor 5c mean giving a concession on a complete course or part of a concession? Is there, then, a combination of concessions and something else, what else is that? Secondly, under what conditions would the ministry suggest awarding the concession and in what way? Whether the tender procedure, i.e. the approval of a concession project through a tender or on the basis of Article 25 of the own-initiative offer or in combination with 163 of these three. Until then, make sure that I, as a member of this Parliament, as well as a number of parliamentarians, that is, discussions that today were in the direction of some doubts, open issues, etc. not to talk about the public in BiH, I can doubt that well-intentioned offers can also be questionable in the future business.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8799	I thank Mrs Hadžiahmetović, a colleague of Hadžiahmetović. The word has been made by Minister Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8800	Mr. Chairman, Evo and I will start with a special debater, or colleague Hadžiahmetović. I agree with many of her findings, and there is no need to repeat them, but first several principle remarks. I, as a state-level resolution minister, have no right to be involved in this matter, so when it comes to a performer, I define myself on the basis of emotion. I want to point out once again that this is a strategic issue of BiH's further development and I am looking at it that way. Next, if you ask me if I'm sure this will work. I'm going to tell you openly that I'm not sure, but I'm going to tell you that I believe this is possible and because I believe we're doing what we're doing. And you'll be involved, be sure, here, this way just as my colleague Azra said. But to go back to my colleague Lagumdžija's discussion. I'm sorry he's not here, but I will, however, say a few findings. I, as Minister, have no right to be angry with any MPs, but I hope MPs also need the respect to listen to the ministers. In particular, I'm not mad at, I'd say, a colleague of the profession, Professor Lagumdžija, for the remarks he shared and, possibly, some inaccurate expressions in terms of us are not the most interested in Bosmal. This is river-based in some metaphorical sense, because it is current, i.e. corridor 5c is at this point current, inter alia, and related to the offer. In that part, and in some other things, my colleague Lagumdžija reminded me completely of a typical professor from these areas, and I am one of those, and I will remind you of a comparison between professors in America and professors in these areas. In America, a professor asks a student to see what he knows, and in these areas, a professor asks a student to see what he doesn't know and, look at the discussion of a colleague named Lagumdžija, so you'll see that she's completely, by definition, a professor from these spaces. But I have to say one of my feelings is that my colleague Lagumdžija didn't listen at all, because if he listened to the minister he wouldn't have said a series of findings, in the sense of here we haven't heard, and it was explicitly said, the only problem is that he was thinking more about what he was going to ask or, maybe even expecting someone else for this speaker, so what he's going to ask and what objections he's saying, than he was listening to what I was saying. Because if that were the case, no question would be asked, such as dilemmas and directions. I'm just finished with the dilemmas and the first ones. Here, positive or affirming what the Council of Ministers had previously done and the federal government about the commitment themselves to go, so I talked about our activities, 164 related to the credit method of construction, where, in part and corridor 5c, and in the context of this one answer to Mr Bešlagić. I did not mention Tuzla – Nuts in these directions, because, indeed, there are no such activities, but Tuzla – Oresje was on the agenda in Zagreb, when I was at the Minister of Resort in the Government of the Republic of Croatia about defining the connection points. So that direction was on the agenda, and it will be again at the 25th of October expert group meeting. in Osijek. I said very shyly it's true, there's a colleague of Lagumdžija a little right, but he's not, like, two and a half billion dollars. Very shy and there in the context of how much money will enter BiH as a significant factor, it is his assessment that it is five billion, it is the matter of his assessment. We still don't know exactly how much they're going to waste, like, here's his remark, that it's a very serious thing whether it's 20-40 or 30 years and, right now, to appreciate that it's a very serious thing, whether it's 20-40 or between the years, and how much of it, in the letter, or in our answer, we're not the instructions, because we think it's very serious, they should say the studies that are going to be done. Then will it be at 20-30 or what I know not to quote and how much it will cost and I emphasized it, we do not dispute that Parliament is making the decision. But Parliament needs to first, I would not now repeat what you have already said, that it forms a commission, it forms a Parliament, then it goes according to Article 4. etc. So, everything, be sure, must be, it's such a serious project that nothing can go under the table, so to speak. So this will say these filizibilities of studies and projects etc. And then these are the elements to talk about what's going to be in the concessions. The Commission will be formed by law. On several occasions, the question was whether many of these 300m euros, which after that 300m euros, could something, now not speak individually who asked the question. Can someone do it cheaper? It is not that BiH will be in charge of 300m euros or that someone will give us 300m euros. 300m euros is a condition that Bosmal provides on the bank's account that we agree on together, as a certain kind of guarantee, that they are able to form a consortium of banks in further talks and enter this project. And those funds will be used for what I've told you about studies, projects, property legal relations, and maybe it won't cost that much and BiH won't pay for it. When it comes to previous activities of previous councils of ministers, I must say that there have been these activities, but that these activities mainly consisted of walking in various conferences where they were discussed, and the previous council of ministers, there are no documents simply. So, the previous council of ministers was discussed, made one decision, which came out of the BiH Official Messenger, saying that a co-ordination team should be formed, etc., which will have tasks not to convince you now, you have, you can find in the Official Messenger, but never formed that co-ordination team. So there was a lot of talk about it. These are the initials, these are the pioneer steps we're making right now. We don't have a strategy. There is one piece of paper, one study done by a Japanese, consultant house, Jake, it was a donation to BiH, but I must remind you that this study is not ratified, it is not yet official, and that is what we will be talking about, this expert team has taken that study, has taken the others, and we will now see what will be the basis for making and our 165 strategy, in which we will also talk about the Ionian-Adriatic Master or Corridor, however you will, because it was a question and Osje-Tuzle, but also about Lašva – Trvnik, Banja Luka – Kupres, Livno- Split etc. So on many of these things, and to make a document, which this parliament will ratify, and then it will become a commitment to BiH. So, and this study of Jake, she's still just a paper that doesn't bind anyone and, that's the acts that were previously. On the question, concerning the Adriatic-Ionian highway, I would like to tell you immediately that there is no concern that in communication with the Government of Croatia, corridor 5c is replaced for the Adriatic-Ionian highway. That's a completely different question, and I have to say that in communication between the two states around the Adriatic-Ionian highway, or the corridor has a lot more open questions than the 5c corridor. As far as corridor 5c is concerned, the northern point of the connection is, we could say, almost defined. It is Svilaj, and in the southern part there are still some dilemmas and it will be discussed by the expert team and will see if they will be able to make a decision on 25th or be delayed for another occasion, until all the necessary things are defined, which should be defined here in BiH and not in Croatia. Croatia has its proposal. We don't have the answer to that proposal. And around the Adriatic-Ionian corridor there are, indeed, open questions here and here, at the last meeting of the other day here in Sarajevo, we have received some three variants from Croatia, and it is agreed that they are officially directed to us on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with all the necessary stamps and, within these three variations through BiH, that corridor goes into one variant about 20km immediately in BiH, coming somewhere north of Dubrovnik, so, close to Dubrovnik and going under Trebinj, enters Montenegro. So that's a 20-mile variant. The second option is to enter BiH somewhere at the beginning of Popo's Polje and to go back to Montenegro and that's about 50km, don't catch me for accuracy now, around I say the third variant, which passes through BiH, which enters BiH at Capljina and again this path goes to Popov Polje, that's what the former railroad cyre says and that it would be optimal, etc. After that, after we get it in writing, we will have to define ourselves in BiH on these issues. So this is still completely open. We're not too late for anything. This has not yet entered the European corridors. We should work together to get into European corridors and parallel to seeing what our interest is and how much it will go through BiH. Here, I hope I've managed to respond to all your dilemmas. We could use a lot of suggestions. Once again in the end, I want to conclude, that is, there is another very important question. What if the funds for the projects are invested, for the studies, and then it turns out that, here's specifically to Bosmal, if he gets that job, that he has no interest in doing that project. We have also fenced ourselves in this response to them, that all the funds invested remain BiH. So, if nothing else. Why do I say I believe this? I believe it can be done, if nothing else, we will get out of this, based on what we have done so far to get a feasibility study, get another project, so if they do not continue, it will remain BiH to talk to further partners. And I'm also saying in this answer, unless there's a financial guarantee that the whole arrangement can be set aside, because someone likes me to read and not talk out of my head. If Bosman d.o.o. do not provide evidence of initial capital for the above-mentioned needs, which I have said within four months, since the publication of this letter, the offer of Bosmal and this acceptance letter have become invalid and ineffective. 166 So, I think that and that is enough fence to keep the business right now, and we remain many, many activities in which, of course, this Parliament will be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8801	I thank Minister Dokić. I think that we ladies and gentlemen are MPs, I'd like the MPs to come into the room, succeed in, here, these two hours, how much of an argument on this subject takes, and, if the initial position was to get information from the Council of Ministers. That's what the proposal said. I'm sorry about that at the last session, when we added the agenda to this part of the agenda and I believe we've been looking for written information from the Council of Ministers to get it by now. Several times we did not ask for it, the truths for the sake of and the public, we did not ask for written information from the Council of Ministers, but in communication we agreed, given the character of the agenda, that this be information only to Parliament, that, behold, Parliament knows what is happening, that, then, the representative of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Minister, gives us clarification and answers any questions for this speaker. Therefore, all other stories go beyond what we assumed should mean this item of the agenda and what we agreed with the Council of Ministers. I repeat that we've been looking for written information, quite certainly, to get it by this session, and here we've heard, in a way, the present Minister of Transport and Communications here. So, given how we've posted this item on the agenda, there's nothing left but to conclude that we've received information on our knowledge. This was proposed by a number of MPs, as it is, then, since it is a significant project, that no one will fail for BiH of exceptional, extremely great importance, of the capital project, we are asking that we be informed as a proposal on the course of this activity, and that, too, must not be controversial, treći thing, we as Parliament will certainly do our part of the work that belongs to us under the Law on concessions, when it comes to this job and it could be some three conclusions, which are, in fact, the sum of all that has been discussed today and what you have proposed, and here are the three of us here in the College, in the meantime, we have discussed and, here Nikola suggests me to say what we are and the three of us agreed on the occasion. Well, here, I'm putting this proposal in line with three of these elements. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I realize we're unanimous, just tell me how many votes that is. With 36 votes to, passed this conclusion with three elements, without votes against and without abstentions. 167 Please nice, take it easy, we'll get everything done. There's no time until tomorrow morning. We move to the 24th point of the agenda, i.e. the 25th point of the agenda. Ad. 25. I would like to ask Mr Gligorić not to have this debate, but to adopt a conclusion today, within this agenda point, to ask the Council of Ministers for written information on the election of the state's attorney. Here's to the pay phone. I am today, right to tell you, as an individual, not ready to discuss this, because I don't have all the facts and all the data. We just have one answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8802	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, that's what this was all about. Mr. Chairman, I agree with you that we can also work in this way, but I have made an effort, given that you have mentioned the answer to the parliamentary question, which is extremely incorrect, the answer that says nothing and the answer that hides very important facts about the person who has been appointed. I have therefore tried to deliver these facts here, which states that, both decisions and laws, and that it was removed by the National Assembly because of unconscious work, by the OHR, that it was engaged in corruption and that it was requested for its removal and that Minister Micic had Mićić such a person at the time, that such a person was replaced as the deputy public defender, and then Mr Mikerević appointed as the perpetrator of the duties of the republican public defender, is currently on duty under the authority of the RS and Mr Mikerević in Paris, representing the interests of the RS. Is it compatible that someone can handle the public defender's affairs both at RS and at BiH level. Here is the support of Minister Seud Filipović, the minister of justice of the RS, also in addition to which he says he mentions the law that will need to be resolved and it will be necessary to change personal solutions within the judiciary, which was eventually signed by Dr Dragan Kalinić and did. The problem is also at the 8th session of the Council of Ministers, when Mrs Miletić was appointed, and there was no record before, that there was no decision, that it was all taken in Official Messenger number 11/03, which is signed by Mr Terzić, because here you are doing, where only in the Council of Ministers you chose the Bošnjakinja, and the previous two solutions by Mrs Miletić from the Croatian people, which I do not even mention was in the previous meeting when Mr Mikerević was. So I will be here in this section, where such evidence is, where, can such a person defend the interests of the RS and in that case, so it has been replaced now by BiH, not getting involved in such details, when he started working relationship and everything that arises, practically, from a whole procedure, which has gone wrong in the beginning and because in the humane sense, no one respected the procedure. That is why it would be good and correct, if we could get a response from the Council of Ministers and I suggest I draw a conclusion and leave it here, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ask the Council of Ministers to review the appointment of 168 public defenders of BiH, Mrs Dragica Miletić, and report to the House of Representatives on their position, respecting all the facts and circumstances that preceded the appointment. I think that through reform of the judicial system, which should also be taken into account when we talk about this and all of this in violation, especially at the time of the trust of the contract, about the dwellings of '92. the year, to whom she did, little to herself and others, and the biggest problem is that I started it, and where some people said it was a personal interest, or some conflict with Mrs Miletić and myself, it is not true, but principled and legal action or conduct, which is why I raised this issue within the RS and here, in order to prevent people who responded in human terms, who did not execute what they needed, where the competent institutions were replacing, can simply move forward in this BiH. Therefore, there is no personal conflict, but I believe that it should therefore be reconsidered whether the RS proposal follows in the humane sense that it has the majority of parliament, I respect it, whether it is a party proposal or a personal, personal proposal by a person who is interested in progressing in a career and is not a place for it, because it violates the law and therefore human rights has violated which is why the OHR has sought both criminal prosecution and monetary prosecution and change and has been replaced. If that's the case, let's get Nikola back Poplašen, let's go back to Ante Jelavić, etc. Then we'll forget all about it, if it can be tolerated. Some have been punished, and some are making progress in BiH, because they are only friends with some individuals within the government. This is a principled question. This also fits the congregation’s majority. You won't get a crown off your head if someone doesn't, because they broke the law and violated human rights in BiH. Here's all you've got, 'cause nothing's going to prepare you for me, here's everything here. I didn't mean to, I could have talked about it for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8803	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Is anyone looking for a word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8804	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I was in favour of supporting the president's proposal, not to open the discussion on this matter, but to the Council of Ministers to give a more exhaustive answer than the one he gave in response to the parliamentary question. But I'm afraid the proposer of the agenda has already opened discussions on this matter. I must say, last time I was against putting this point on the agenda. You remember well, and I cited as a key reason that it was a personal conflict between Mr Gligorić and Mrs Miletić, and I still stand on that, that it was a personal conflict and it was a personal conflict. As far as I know, I met the lady there after putting this item on the agenda, I tried to get to know her because I found out that she was elected in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting and that she worked for some 6-7-8 months and that she hadn't bothered anyone, or that no one was asking a question, no one asked how she got there, what she was and what a 169 expert, etc. So I came to the point that, practically, the process started somewhere in the fifth month of O.G. And then it went on and on, and it came to this, that is, that is to say, that it was also found at the House of Representatives. I really don't think we need to discuss the personal conflicts of individual MPs with someone else. But here, unfortunately, some MPs abuse the trust of the people, and they personally bring it here into this parliament. Mr. Gligorić brought in an act, and here I brought the same thing, and I didn't mean to take it out of my bag. This is a list of documents for this case. Here, and I won't open it. So, the document list, which binds, in a strange way, Mr Gligorić and Mrs Miletić... 12.05.2003, and then begins all the problem Mrs Miletić filed a criminal complaint against Mr Gligorić, a criminal application for abuse of office or authority under Article 337. The criminal code of Republika Srpska and the crime of not knowingly working in the service referred to in Article 334. The criminal law of Republika Srpska. The first page was published by Glas Srpske in 13.05. So on the cover page, on 05.05. Mrs Miletić filed a complaint against the Independent Journals and Tihomir Gligorić for damages caused by damages to reputations and false allegations. Indemnity requested is 20,000 KM. From these two, or from these two facts, and from others here that I would not open because I really do not think to be Mrs Miletić's lawyer, but I want to free this house, free up the debate on certain conflicts between us and some third and putting on the agenda points that surely, of which the citizens of this country will certainly not benefit much, even from the previous ones when most of those who have debated themselves viewed as members of the concession commission. Of course I don't want to be involved in this kind of thing, like this and in future I don't want to be involved in this kind of debate. I do not see the need to be for either one or another, nor anyone who asks their personal question here in such a way and, of course, I resent those who have supported such a proposal that this is on the agenda and gets a weighty one that absolutely doesn't deserve because it is something that the Court will do in its own way, thank God there are instances that will bring some judgments, someone will be satisfied with them and will not, someone will publish something in the paper, someone may not continue to file any other applications, abuses etc., but I also ask Mr Gligorić to understand his insults, I understand his position, understand his own position, and I understand his desire for personal zeal, and I do not mind that Mr Gligorić does so, but I ask him not to work through my time and not to work through this Parliament to do so in the institutions who receive the salary. I don't take it, I take it for a long time, for something much more serious, for something that we discussed today or something that we're going to discuss at the next item of the agenda. So I won't open this unless I'm forced to. Thank you very much. 170
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8805	There are several false allegations, requests for correction of the guilty, only a little bit of this Mrs. Hadžiahmetović has her first business intervention, and then you have the wrong quote, so Mrs. Palavrić has a discussion, so Mr. Špirić has a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8806	First, Mr. Chairman of the College allow me to express my protest by the way you directed the discussion and nominated the agenda point. It is mentioned here that Mr. Proposer ate these items of the agenda, Mr. Gligorić, that it was personal terms and conditions of accounts with the appointed member, who in the sub-processure expressed doubts, that there was a defence in favour of the members appointed or appointed to eat Mrs. Miletić's Law Department, I have no idea what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8807	I don't have a right to tell you either.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8808	Is why I am expressing the protest why you allowed the agenda point to appear this way
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8809	So I didn't vote Azra, I apologize for interrupting you, I didn't vote, I voted against this to get into the agenda here's what you wanted to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8810	Allow that, as someone who has been in the Council of Ministers' meeting of time, who is mentioned to have appointed Mrs Miletić to the post or function she is acting, i.e. that the procedure for supporting information or seeking information has been violated, the Council of Ministers has given infringement of the appointment procedure. I mention here that I do not know the general Mrs Miletić but I really do not know who it is but I simply cannot make any decisions to be a part of allowing my impression that perhaps a Parliament that may be converted into a courtroom, this one completely agrees with Mr Novaković not knowing again what it is and who it is that this Parliamentary speaker is about expressing doubts in the procedure, in the appointments, etc. but for presenting evidence of someone's guilt or not to blame someone for the guilt or guilt, I do not think this Parliament is relevant. And let's really stop this debate in that direction and ask for information on whether the appointment procedure has been violated. If there are any doubts about anyone's involvement, anyone, including mine, allow them to exist for that institution. Thank you. 171
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8811	Thank you, just sit down, please sit still, sit still, just sit down. Slow down, so slowly this is the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this body should not be involved in investigations in individual cases. That's my deep, I'm now giving myself my word in individual specific cases because I don't know where that's gonna take us. Next, so last time I voted, first of all, this is not the agenda item that I put on the agenda as chair, nor did the College, and I voted against including this item in the agenda. However, the parliamentary majority has decided to be this parliamentary majority has decided to be a part of the agenda and I, as chairman, who respects what the House decides, must put it on the agenda, and this is why today is on the agenda. Knowing therefore, knowing what could involve this debate, and not knowing anything about a specific case, before we started any discussion, I suggested the conclusion. I didn't do anything by chance to make the Council of Ministers sad about this case if it's already a part of the agenda and it's the only way we can get out of this situation without keeping what's called the reputation of this home. So I'd ask you, I've been a judge for many years, and believe me, now that these arguments have been presented to each other and I'm slowly starting to reason as a judge and praise me as a million facts, I simply can't, don't pretend us, Azra is absolutely right, don't turn us into judges, let us stop the debate at this point because this isn't the job of this home, but since the agenda point has to respect it. It's a Đaba of time. Let's ask, wait for Azra to finish, ask the Council of Ministers to provide the German Council of Ministers with information on this case with all the facts and then Parliament can tell the Council of Ministers whether something should be questioned or not. If we've already gotten this one into it. This is the only possible way. I beg you all further is without a needy debate believe me. Please, all those who have applied for the discussion give up and support this conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion. I beg you, I ask you who is for the heir to this mine
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8812	Before, before the vote
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8813	What are you going to do here?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8814	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I, of course, supported this as a part of the agenda. You can imagine the absurd situation we find for the elected officials of this country only looks in charge of High 172 representatives. When he changes, he puts no one against it. When a person in Parliament is able to ask a question, he asks a man whether it is possible to name a man for whom there are certain arguments that the level of such functions does not correspond to behavior, so it is not a court And that's why I think it was a good suggestion for whoever was looking for Mr Gligorić's agenda because he suggested such a conclusion. I don't think we should engage in any debate but from whoever had it to ask for information along with everything the agenda promoter has delivered. That's it, please. I don't think anyone's ready today to accuse this or that, but to look for information.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8816	Of course, Nikola and I are also thinking the same thing just so please nice on the karate after you suggested it's actually what I suggested. Please, nice. I'll tell you right now. If I had all the facts, I could make decisions today, but we don't make decisions. Decisions shall be taken by the Council of Ministers. I'm putting my pass to the vote. Who's in? The vote is in progress who's my proposal? Please count the galas. ___________? Don't tell me a man's entitled to a quote, why he doesn't have a right. Count the votes, please. Please, Fatima, please count the votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8820	By whom the rules of procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8821	And what you're trying to make out of it is your problem is not my problem to count votes. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, unanimously, is how many votes there are inside
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8822	I'm against treating MPs like this. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8823	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8824	I'm against the president's attitude to know
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8825	He didn't come out advocacy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8826	Mr. Gligorić, you're not denied, but I did, so you've spoken twice to Mr. Gligorić, you have a minute for the wrong quote. Here you go. Here you go. Please don't comment. You have the wrong quote to correct it. Don't tell me something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8827	First, if there is no record in the Council of Ministers, there is no decision then there is not a single paper by Mrs Miletić because Adnan Terzić has only signed and accepted the two previous solutions. I'm not going to talk about a Croat who doesn't have any right now. She's got a higher school, and she's looking for college. I won't even talk about it. But sir, he did respect you, since you obviously have a reason for the skupštinski, anything can pass if necessary. It's just that he blames this allegation to tell Mr. Novaković who says I don't want to say anything then he says anything, and apparently he's instructed. I do not wage any war against Mrs Miletić but the fact is that I have filed a criminal report but before Mrs Miletić, so you say so and there are large empty words, and I accuse her of laundering money or 174 corruption. Now, that's the big difference, and what Mr. Novaković says is that I'm not wasting his time and going over it and going over SDS officials and you're standing up for it. I don't have to say everything in this House. The highest SDS officials, and when asked about land and property from the Bosniaks, the lady gave confidence. If it bothers you to the congregation majority that you're fighting for a particular citizen from your people, it doesn't bother me either. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8828	I thank you too, Mr. Gligorić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if I were to be sure, then, if I had all the facts I was telling you on my behalf, that's exactly what Mr. Gligorić was talking about, I would raise my hand immediately if that person were to be replaced. I don't have those facts and I'm not a judge, so please, all I'm asking here is that we get the fact that we know what to do about it is a problem. Please, I'm putting my conclusion to the vote again. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I've been warned. I've been warned by the Secretary of the House that we should repeat the vote. Please, Mr. Živković has a business intervention. Here you go. We're done. We're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8829	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't see a reason to raise tension here, and I really didn't come out here to point out anyone but simply to speed up the work of this house, because here's the four hours we've had here, first about the information Mr. Dokić brought here and we could have it in writing and there would also be so many debaters and we wouldn't stay here as well, as we now have a business, business exit from all of this, and this is Article 26, paragraph 2 of the House's conclusion on the proposal of MPs or Members' Club to establish temporary and investigative committees. Please keep doing so in Republika Srpska that there is a so-called commission. Why should we ask again for a report from the Council of Ministers and that this report again, all together, to consider, to make some conclusion that the investigating authorities are doing this and that when we can form a temporary commission that will chew up the material and present it to this Parliament. There's a way out of this situation. Thank you. 175
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8830	Thank you. Okay, and this is a proposal that we can discuss, of course, but here the Council of Ministers appoints it as the work of the Council of Ministers. I'll put both proposals to the vote. You didn't just suggest members' names. Here we go, please, you didn't suggest, I'll put your proposal to the vote. I think it's possible for both of us. So, I have nothing against that variant, this one just don't chase me now that I'm proposing who will be the people who will deal with it, this one. I still think we should get written full information from the Council of Ministers. And please, we have to vote again, please. Who's in favor of this proposal, so who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Tell me, what's the number of states? I find that most of the votes with 30 votes in favour, without a single abstention, have adopted this conclusion. I think that's the way we are, I don't think there's any need to
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8831	There is, there is a need for Parliament to establish its commission. Why not?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8832	Who's for a gentleman's proposal, who's for a proposal, you just have to name it, then please. ________ [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8833	It doesn't matter what he said. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8834	Please, who's in favor of accepting Mr. Živković's proposal? Who's up for that proposal? Please nice, thank you very much. Who's against that proposal? Thank you very much. I'm being held back, only because I don't have a name. The proposal is incomplete, so Parliament cannot decide on names. We've decided something now, probably not what we decided. 176
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8835	Can I just...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8836	No, wait a minute. Nikola can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8837	I'm looking for a word why I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8838	We vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8839	Oh, please, just give me a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8840	Thank you very much. We're voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8841	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8842	Wait. It's not. Which is an injury.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8843	Yes, it is. I'll tell you why. Ladies and gentlemen, if it makes any sense, he gave me his word, I'm a member of the College. Jovanović is a little patient. Why are you like that? I beg you, the discussion is over, I want to vote. Wait a minute, Mr. Jovanović. A colleague, Živković, suggested that Parliament set up its own commission, which means that the commission has its spells and the Commission's names. You put one part of the motion on the vote without asking us to give the club names and form the Commission. I am telling you that this is the best way for Parliament to put an end to this and running away from the problem is not good and is not in collegiate with what we have done. So, let's propose names and vote for the Commission. The commission will say Mr Gligorić's allegations are not correct or has elements, so it will forward it to the Council of Ministers. What's our second assignment? I am in favour of completing this proposal by Mr. Živković and putting him to the vote and not putting a part in it, so we say it's not a set. Don't please don't do this seriously. You look for names, you get names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8844	Please, nice. Please be nice. All right, let's get this over with. Did you count the votes? 177 ___________? Maybe we should go to an entity vote. The entity vote, please, is therefore a proposal to appoint the Commission, so when this proposal gets a majority, then we will appoint members. It's okay. Please, let's move on. I just told Nikola why I'm abstentioned, please, because I have nothing against parliamentary commissions on entities. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you very much. Who's from Republika Srpska, for? Okay. Is this how we suggest that the College prepare a proposal for the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8846	We'll have the members now. What can we do to make it more complicated? Now let's get the members now. Five members and over. Every club has two. Here in front of SNSD, write me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8847	Sead, which is the SDA proposal put... the ambassador, you want... Please suggest that every club of MPs put one man on this committee and that's it. Please, yes, the Commission has passed, yes, it is painful, it has passed, please, Miloše has passed, wait for me to publish, the right man is going to publish the results of the vote stop. Please nice I followed, there was no 8 there was more of this Jovanović I am begging you nice Jovanović stop a bit so don't. Please, there's no doubt until I publish the results. There were 33 MPs present in the O.R., 16 voted in favour, against the vote of four, with ten abstentions. So there is general parliamentary support. The Federation voted 10 for it. Republika Srpska voted 6 in favour. And I understand that the proposal for the establishment of the Commission has received the necessary majority. Here you go. Mr. Miloš Jovanović, the reference to the count, eat. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8848	I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure, I know he has the right, means individual statement, means you're calling by name and last name who votes. And play more vote-fixing. 178
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8849	No problem, please secretary, Secretary of the House, is it just entity or anything. I ask the Secretary of the House to call Parliament and make an individual statement. Please, and the presidents of the clubs, we are voting on the Commission's proposal for Živković ___________ What's the proposal? His proposal to form a parliamentary, investigative parliamentary commission to investigate the case. Yeah, yeah. May I have your attention, please, give the secretary a count? No, someone's deliberately trying to make a fool of the House. Count
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8851	Mirsad Ćeman-suzdržan- Mirjana, - Milićević-protiv Šefik- Džaferović-suzdržan, - Hazim Felić-nije-not in the hall is not there, - Izet Hadžić- (?- Nikola Leho-sustained, - Nadžida Mlaćo-Mlaćo-suzdržan, - Hasan Muratović-za, - Abdulah Nakaš-molim-Mladen is absent, - Sead Jovanović-protivNenadMišić-protiv, - Beriz Belkić-za, - Muhamed Altić-za-Duraković-odsutan, - Azra Ibrahim, - Adem Huskić-za, - Mehmed Suljkanović-za, - Filip Lagundžija-odsutanAndrić-suzdržan, - Ivo Miro Lozančić-za-Đedović-nije, - Martin Raguž-nije-is not there, - Elmir Jusufovi, - Jelina PetarZorić-protiv, - Selim Bešlagić-za-sanjivić - Mrlažalović-sažan-sužan, - Špirić-za Nikola - Jozo Kunić-uzdržan, - Sead Avdić - Potočnik-odsutan Mirko - Tihomir-Gligorić-za, Zažan-Za - Mož
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8852	So, the results you want to publish the results.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8853	Given that the controversial results are this, I would like to announce the following, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for a proposal to form a provisional commission, the investigative commission voted 10 MPs, against 1, abstention 9. Republika Srpska voted 6 against 4 and 3 abstentions in favour of the proposal. It means there's an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-27-0.u8854	Please, nice. Thank you very much. Here's the check, so that's the results. We have, therefore, a decision has been made, please, just a little attention to bring the agenda to an end. The decision was made to establish an ad-hoc Parliamentary Investigation Commission to examine this case and a decision was taken to request information from the Council of Ministers. The rest is now to determine the names of the commission to finish the job. I call on club presidents to name from, please, let's let each club go for one man. 180 These are: - Jusufović Munib, from the party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, turn off the phone where the phone works, Jusufović Munib from the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, - Špirić Nikola, from SNSD, - Izet Hadžić, from the SDA, - From HDZ please give me the name Vinko Zorić, please give me the SDP name from the SDP, please wait for a little attention, we cannot vote President of the SDP Club whether you want to give a member of the Commission. I invite every club to one man at a time. Do you also want to know who it is? You don't have a candidate. Thank you. Mixed club, Potočnik, good Sead Avdić, Avdić, we have SDS Jovanović. Please, two, four, six, seven and one club don't want to run. Therefore, the composition of the Commission, Jusufović Munib, Špirić Nikola, Izet Hadžić, Vinko Zorić, Potočnik Mladen and Avdić Sead and Jovanović Miloš. Who is for this composition of the Commission? Please, two different clubs are them, two different clubs are those three. Thank you very much, that's why I didn't ask PDP no club. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Two. So, this is the Commission of Investigation with how many votes to just wait for 32 MPs present 30 voted, 32 MPs present, 32 voted in favour. No Niko was against and two were abstentions. I agree that this is the composition of the commission and that we voted, Jusufofović, Špirić, Hadžić, Zorić, Potočnik, Avdić, Jovanović, who should deal with this case after the Council of Ministers delivers this information and before. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ended. I'm taking a break until 5:00. Here's the problem, you all want to know everything at a given moment. There's some order in this house, Mr. Gligorić, and that order says the Secretary of the House will call a commission. That this committee will meet, choose its own boss and continue to organise the work. That's how it's always done so far, that's how it's gonna work now. We'll continue at 17 with the 16th session. The session was completed at 4:40 p.m.
