ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9889	I am opening the 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the MPs, I would like to inform you at the meeting of the chair and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the representative of the OHR, the representative of the OSCE, the representative of the EU, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, the Representative of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the UN Mission in BiH, representatives of NGOs, the Centre for Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I warmly welcome all MPs and guests of the sittings who have responded to the invitation to attend the session. According to the Service report, I find that 35 MPs attend the session, which means we have a quorum and we can make decisions in full and full. The absence from the session was justified by Momčilo Novaković and Ivo Miro Jović for their official trip. The others have not announced their absence. So we expect their presence at the session during the session. So we figure Dom has a quorum. Gentlemen, before the debate on the draft agenda, it is my duty to inform you that I have received a letter from the OHR and in which it is informed that, following the adoption of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a lack of consistency between the version of the text in English and the texts published in the official messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They also say there are a whole series of orthographic and grammatical errors in the versions of these laws in all three official languages. 2 You know, gentlemen, that it is the laws declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative, which we later adopted under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So in the same text as the High Representative declared them. In this sense, corrections have been made in the BiH Criminal Law in accordance with both the Criminal Procedure Act. These corrections were published in Official Messenger number 32. I am informing you of this, ladies and gentlemen, so that there will be no misunderstanding when you read these messengers. We're going through, so this is just information for you to have information that corrections have been made, because there were really illogical mistakes that caused problems in the application of the law, and so I think well, that there have been corrections to these errors published in the Official Messenger. We are now moving to set the agenda for the 22nd session. As you know, it is our constant practice to hold a session of the House of Commons and a session of the Expansive College. At last night's session of the Enlarged College, we agreed and reached a consensus to supplement the agenda with today's points 10, 11 and 12. So in that sense, as you have seen, these new points 10, 11 and 12 are included. It is about - The selection of members of the House in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to bring the same text of the BiH Air Force Act into line and - the formation of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of BiH, as well as the selection of members of this House in this joint commission and as the last item of the agenda was included - the Commission report on the, the Commission's investigation committee on the so-called "The European Commission on the European Union". Supposed "state strike." This item will be closed to the public and is therefore proposed to be the final item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now read an integral agenda like the College, for a stenogram, the Expanded College has proposed. 1. Journal of the 21st session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Zakob on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Proposal for a law on freedom and religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MP Petar Kunić (first reading), 6. Proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 3 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MP Sead Palavrić (first reading), 8. Proposal for a law of indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 9. Proposal for a conclusion on the Information of the Council of Ministers on Initiatives and So far's activities in the construction of the Corridor V-c highway, 10. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act, 11. Conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level, 12. Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13. Granting consent to ratification: (a) International Convention on the Co-operation of Air Safety from 13 December 1960 with amendments from 6 July 1970, 21 November 1978, 12 February 1981 and 27 July 1997 and Protocol 8 October 2003, (b) of the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EC and 14. Report by the Commission of Investigation on the so-called so-called "The coup." We're going to work, so I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9890	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I actually have one proposal, I would say on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, although I have not consulted with my colleagues in this regard, but I have estimated that this should be accepted for practical reasons. As point 3 of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in Government Institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, another reading is foreseen. You know that in the course of the first reading last session, we have extended the deadline for adoption, or proposing amendments in 10 days. After that deadline, the Commission received amendments made within that deadline and it was only yesterday afternoon, I would say late to have a session to discuss the amendments and here is the report prepared. To be honest with you last night, I haven't been able to work on it right now, so I can still say I'm going through it, sign it so the MPs can get it. That is why my proposal is that point 3. if, of course, the House estimates that there are other business assumptions that this point is being discussed today, point 3 should be transferred to a later point 4 so that I, as chairman of the Komisje, or MPs after that, could obtain a report, analyze it, etc., so that we could make a quality definition of it in the debate. So the suggestion is that point 3, here I am not and I'm not establishing any concrete proposal, but you can estimate which place, but somewhere out there, if I don't know anything in which 2 hours 3 this is going to take us all so the MPs can get the report and keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9891	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. I ask you, therefore, that we have an hour of parliamentary questions, after which I have a request from the club so from 20 to 12 for an hour's crawl. There will be plenty of time for the Commission to do this and to remain the point where we have defined it. So we'll make sure that this point arrives in time while you can prepare the report. Who's next to the word? Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9892	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, in the last month, discussions are being held in Europe about taking over part of NATO's pact's competence from Europe itself. I believe that this assembly, on behalf of its citizens and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should make a point about this. Accordingly, and in accordance with Article 121(1) and (2) thereof, The SNSD Club submits the following resolution: - Bearing in mind the role of the United States in the process of achieving the implementation and maintenance of peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, its post-war recovery and revitalisation of the economy as well as the support provided in Bosnia and Herzegovina's bid to join the European and Euro-Atlantic integration processes, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives considers that the presence of US units within the framework of SFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the coming period is the key to the peace and prosperity of these areas, and in one respects the continuation of the reform process on the path of joining Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU and NATO the Pact, i.e.e. the Stability Pact and emerging during regional integration processes. Given the complexity of the global security situation, and as mentioned above, an invitation should be made to the US government to find ways and opportunities for them to continue their mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina in agreement with other NATO members. The EU should take into account the desire and commitment of all peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the permanent peace, stability and prosperity of these areas in the coming period, which implies further active participation by the US administration through continued engagement of their military potentials within the SFOR mission in our country. 5 I will give this resolution to every MP, if it comes to the agenda and is subject to change. We can agree that it should look in detail, and I suggest that it be a point of the 9th agenda, so right behind the set of laws, since the resolution is in place by its importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9893	I thank my colleague Živković. I don't argue that clubs can handle resolutions. So I ask understanding to classify the agenda, so that we can continue to take the position to go into the commission stage so that everyone can, of course, say what they think about this resolution and that this resolution, because it is important matter, so as far as all of us are concerned, not just one party or one MP, to come to the common text that would be adopted here. But here's the understanding of the agenda. That's what counterpart Živković was talking about and said he was ready to go into the commission phase. Mr. Martin Raguž picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9894	Here is the initiative of Mr Živković, it is indeed an extremely important issue both in political and security terms for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its perspective and in realising its commitment on the road to the EU and Euro-Atlantic integration. And it is quite certain that such important issues should be considered previously on committees and bodies, and I therefore believe that the contents of this resolution should not be included today in the agenda, but rather give seriousness to this issue at the track of what we have done so far on the external political agenda in this House and that this issue is being run by Mr Živković to the competent commission and then to carry out a quality debate and prepare a determination of this House on this matter. I will remind you now, given that he also presented the contents of the resolution that intensive consultations are under way within the NATO alliance, within the EU in relations between the EU and America, and that the matter is not so syblified whether America will now stay here or not. It is about seeking an optimal relationship between Europe and America for stability not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the entire region. And I agree that we give a determination in and if we need to in the form of a resolution, but previously we really need a thorough debate and a thorough preparation of the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9895	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to thank my colleague, the Vice-President, and I would like to call for Article 121(2). Rules of Procedure – any MP may submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides it is necessary to consider it previously. 6 So, here's the thing just that, I agree that the competent commission should discuss this, the fellow Živković agrees, but to include the agenda point and say we are forwarding to the competent commission that will work on this resolution, together all clubs, all MPs, etc. But we can also not put an end to the conclusion that this is referred to the competent commission. But you can't do business again if you don't put an end to the agenda. We can't reach a conclusion. Article 121(2), we must act in business. So we're looking for understanding. A colleague of Živković's will be given a chance, so let's put it on the agenda, and let's act this way to go to the competent commission, as well as all resolutions so far have so far been put on the agenda, and the competent commissions have discussed all resolutions. Thank you. Comrade Živković, you had an intervention. Here you go. Well, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9896	When I proposed a agenda item, according to the Rules of Procedure, I did not go into the content itself, so I believe that this should be a part of the agenda, and I do not mind that this assembly is determined by the conclusion that the competent committees need to prepare the content, if both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency should be involved in this and that this is the end of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9897	I thank my colleague Živković. I think this is a good interpretation. I think that's what it's supposed to be, because a complex problem is exactly the way it ends. Mr. Dr. Lagumdžija is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9898	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that we have already had experience in this conference with resolutions that were about much less controversial things and that from the moment Mr. Živković came out today to put that resolution on the agenda so far, it took us about three to four months to go through all these stages that you were talking about. In 3 to 4 months, this resolution will not make any sense, because decisions on what Mr. Živković is talking about are being made these days, I repeat these days, so if you want it to be declared by the Rules of Procedure to go into the commission phase, we are making it very clear that we do not support this resolution, nor are we giving it a chance. Very clear and precise. So, I would suggest just because Mr. Raguž put this on the agenda today, and if there is a need to possibly extend the session for the next day, let's continue it. It is an important enough thing for the future of this country and what is most wrinkled exists among us I am sure of the political consensus on the content of this resolution. And 7 by putting this resolution on a commission post there, it can unnecessarily raise issues that do not exist among us. And you can get a wrong picture of our wishes and attitudes in the domestic and international public, so I would suggest that this be put on the agenda today and then proceed, Mr. Chairman. We certainly have decided that we have a continuous session of the Parlamentary Assembly, so we can continue tomorrow or Monday, but in any case for the next few days, we should have committees in the break to let us know just how seriously we take the balance Mr Raguž was talking about, because this is not about whether you are in this resolution for America or for Europe. This is about letting this resolution know, that we believe that we need the United States together with the EU to stay until the end of the process that they entered together by signing the Dayton Agreement and when they both said they had come here together and that they would leave together. We are merely making it known, the desire of this Parliament to have this process and their presence here in a way that is not disputed, I am sure among us. But I repeat once again the procedure of asking this to go into the commission phase, we're practically killing this resolution before we put it on the agenda and that, and I'm sure it doesn't need that either. And since I've already come out, Mr. Chairman, it didn't occur to me at all that it's possible that we could start a session without literally no one from the Council of Ministers, no one. Not a chairman, not a minister, not one deputy. I don't know how you tolerate this as chairman. If I were part of the parliamentary majority, I know what I'd do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9899	I thank my colleagues, Dr. Lagumdžija. I ask your understanding, therefore, that we support this resolution at the SNSD Club to be a part of the agenda, and we will see whether the debate will be on this line that we all agree to adopt it, or whether it will go to the commission. And as far as I'm concerned, I have to be honest with the members of the Council of Ministers and members of the Bureau, when everyone here realizes that this is a parliament and when we understand this House ourselves, then this set or something else will probably be present. But, please, finely initiate initiatives, different initiatives when it comes to the Council of Ministers, their presence, responsibility or anything else, I will plead on these initiatives. I can't individualize anyone, they've all been called, brought by hand to Parliament's session. The line to the replica was requested by Mr. Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. So the intention to debate this thoroughly on the committee does not mean killing this resolution. I responsibly argue this, but rather, its strengthening and legitimacy to withstand all the circumstances in which it will appear in the domestic and international public. Come on, rock, the first next session of this house, let 8 be this debate on this subject, let the commission do it by then, and it's 7 or 10 days. And that shows that we are seriously present, not ad hoc on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9901	We thank Mr. Raguž. The right of MPs will be to make democratic statements on all proposals. So whether there will be a point or there will be no point, whether there will be commission work or we will adopt a resolution, but I would pray that we are just discussing whether there will be a item on the agenda or not. The debate will show a further destiny. Dr. Lagudmdžij called to say his word. Here you go. Right on the replica, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9903	I would suggest you take a look at the Rules of Procedure, Article 139c, Rule 140. The two members speak of the presence and participation of the Council of Ministers in Parliament's meetings. Their not being present under Article 139c) and 141 makes a situation where we are now doing the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. We are now doing the opposite of the Rules of Procedure, reading these two members. To remind you, Article 139c) says that the Council of Ministers through its representative will take part in the sessions of the House, the Enlargement College and the Commission. They're not here today, so they're not participating. Under 140. The Council of Ministers will represent its chairman, one or more of its members, in the House, unless otherwise prescribed by this Rules of Procedure or by law, which is not the case. So we are now in a situation that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Now we do, conditionally speaking contrary to what our basic act is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9904	Thank you. I'll take my word for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests, I beg you, I have just commented from the site, which is not natural to my nature. I'd like to hear from you. The Rules of Procedure defined the Council of Ministers' obligation, therefore, to attend or not to attend through their mediator. That is, therefore, their obligation, but does not mean that Parliament cannot work unless there is a representative of the Council of Ministers. Well, we wouldn't have held a single session these years. Please don't come in here and make this house a circus. If the other state institutions don't want to, they won't, start initiatives towards the Council of Ministers and those you think 9 are necessary here, but let's go into the active work of this home. There are agenda points where we don't need a statement from the Council of Ministers if they don't want to attend. So, this Rules of Procedure prescribes their role, and I don't think we're outside the Rules of Procedure if we do, but it simply speaks about the other side, and, in that sense, I would pray, I don't need to replicate, I agree with my colleague Lagumdžija, so that it would be better for people to attend the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to have coordinated activities, but if they're not to deal with these things now to move on to specific things, because we're waiting for the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9906	Nikola, people know we've been warming up for two hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9907	Well, they have a duty to attend, so what do we do now? I'm begging you, we haven't even begun to maintain a serious atmosphere for serious points and hear each other out. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to a plea. We only have one request for a change and a supplement. This is the 9th point on the SNSD's proposal to be the point of the agenda of the resolution that Mr. Živković spoke of and has, I thought we understood each other, Mr. Ćeman, given the break. Okay. So, Mr. Ćeman asked for the rotation of the agenda point to move the 3rd point forward, but after my argument that we would have a break an hour, that we had parliamentary questions, that the Commission could complete its work. If after that time takes time, we'll find a colleague named Ćeman agreed. I'm thanking you. We're going to this proposal by Mr. Živković. Who is it that the 9th point is the resolution, which was spoken of and the rest of the points moved? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I ask Mr. Živković to share the resolution he read with the Members of Parliament, to the Service. I'd like the results of the vote. From among those present, 37 – 30 – against 4 – abstentions of 3 Messengers. So, please listen a little bit, if you don't, I'll start using the Rules of Procedure, so that those who don't listen interfere with the business provisions to use. And this way we don't have the conditions to listen to each other. So, the 9th item of the agenda was included, on the SNSD Club proposal. I ask that this resolution be shared and I ask the Service that, at the time of the break, the agenda should be understood as it was adopted. 10 So I realize we've adopted the next agenda. 1. No, no, I've got a service report here. If you doubt it, you're looking for a re-election, but we've already moved on you haven't intervened. From 37 – 30 for – 4 against and 3 abstentions. I repeat the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Anyone with abstention, please follow that you don't sleep. So, of the 37 present 30 for and 7 grisly, I realize that we've adopted this item on the agenda. Please, in future, the moment we close the deal, I will not give the right to vote again. I ask the Members to follow and intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm the one who said how I got from the Service and I'm asking you to follow. Thank you. We've adopted the next agenda. 1 Minutes from the 21st session of the House of Representatives, please and ask the Sužba not to disturb the course of the session. Please stop sharing the material, let's get this session real. 2. Legislative questions and answers 3. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to conflict of interest in BiH institutions, second reading 4. Proposal for a law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH, second reading 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH – Proposed by MP Petar Kunić, first reading 6. Proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency in BiH, first reading 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, MP Sead Palavrić, first reading 8. Proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in BiH, first reading 9. SNSD Resolution, 10. Proposal for a conclusion on Information from the Council of Ministers, concerning the initiative on activities so far in the construction of the Corridor Vc 11. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act, 12. Conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy, Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level, 13. Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level, 11 14. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the International Convention on Co-operation on Air Navigation Security (b) of the Credit Agreement between BiH and the Central Bank of BiH and the European Community 15. The Commission's report on the so-called the case of a "state coup". Ladies and gentlemen, that's the agenda. I ask the Service to prepare an innovative agenda at the break time so that we can actively monitor the course of this session. What I want to tell you about the last item of the agenda, which is closed to the public, that the materials that are strictly pove, are subject to the return of the Service that distributed the materials, that you take care of it. It doesn't say that it should be returned, it says it's strictly pov, but this is a note that materials should be returned to the Service to behave like that. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The minutes from the 21st session of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to adopt the minutes of the 21st session? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I understand that the 21st session minutes have been adopted unanimously. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. Parliamentary questions and answers At the time of the 21st to this session, we received answers to the questions of MPs: Mirsad Ćeman, Seade Palavrić, Mehmed Suljkanović, Miloš Jovanović and Nikola Špirić, set at the 17th session, Jeline Dđurković, set at the 18th session and Ivo Mire Jović and Filip Andrić, set at the 20th session of the House. Is there a need for MPs to comment on the answers? Are they satisfied? Mr Miloš Jovanović picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9908	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked at one of the congregations a question about the secret shooting of sessions of this home and the House of Peoples and Commissions and the other months and I have received an answer from the Ministry of Security and I would like to, if I may make this second part that the House determines according to what they have suggested. He says, in order to make detailed checks on the official premises, it is possible to hire a mixed expert group, which will conduct a room examination, and to draw up a report on the situation found, and after a decision by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I'd like 12 if the assembly could reach a conclusion on this issue, meaning that this mixed expert team is being formed, which would conduct a room examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9909	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Who's next to the word? Col. Filip Andrić, Ćeman, and Mr. Bešlagić. But this is just whether they're satisfied with the answer to those who asked the question. So please take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9910	Dear fellow MPs and Mr. Chairman, I referred to the main and responsible editor of Federal Television Mrs. Marija Topić Crnoja again at the 20th session. The question has been answered. Why does he allow the use of the illegal name of the Herzegbossan county of the Lithuanian Canton in federal television shows? I again did not get an answer from Mrs. Topić, whom I had set up, I served her as a person and as an institution, as the editor-in-chief and responsible. I didn't ask her for decisions of the Constitutional Court, but I asked her why she allowed the use of an illegal name. As far as I know, according to the Herceg-Bosnian County Constitution, the name hasn't been changed yet. I didn't ask for a Constitutional Court ruling. I could have found her and read it in the Official Journal and not asked them. The answer was sent to me in front of the Federal Television Service. I'm a representative of the State Parliament, and I'm not a journalist. Unlike the last time, this time they answered me without a signature, just the seal and the service. That's what I'm asking Mrs. Mrija Topić Crnoja again. Not why they call the Livna Canton, but why she as the editor-in-chief and responsible allows the use of federal television for an illegal county or canton, call whatever you want. Thank you. The question is, then, already set, bring it back again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9911	I ask you all questions in writing and if you repeat them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9912	I apologize, for the stenogram, the question is already twice in writing at the Ministry of Service, it can only be repeated.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9913	Of course, again, it's the third time you've repeated it, but what we have to do is procedure. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9914	I just got the answer, I just found it in this package, I find, so I got the answer, but it's not answered to my questions, and it's not answered because my question was only partially delivered to the address of the one I asked, because it wasn't integratedly rewritten my question, and it was my remark and the record last time, as you're going to, you might sit down. I have asked the Ministry of Human Rights whether it is doing anything or whether it can do not within BiH, but with other countries that rights in the context of protection of labour rights, even human rights of workers, citizens of BiH, who once worked in the former republics, the former state of SFRY, say in Croatia, Serbia and that I do not count on their rights to protect themselves, because some of them failed, failed today, and if they tried and intended to even have contacts with groups of these citizens to form an association, which, based on international legal documents and regulations, would try to protect those rights. So my question does not apply to Article 143. The law on the work of the Federation of BiH and other laws, rather than precisely, refers to that category of BiH citizens who once worked in the republics of the former SFRY. The reason why, this wrong answer lies in the fact that my question is not literally copied, which, I repeat, was my remark on both the record and the suggestion that the future question is precisely formulated as was asked and the integral delivery, not a copy of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9915	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Who's next to the word? There isn't. Now let's go with the new parliamentary questions. Mr. Džaferović, Gligorić, sir, you will all come, there is no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9916	Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short and very simple question and a naked eye visible, a question for the Council of Ministers. When will it finally begin and when are the work plans to be completed to rebuild this building here and the complete complex of buildings in which BiH institutions are located, as well as this square here in front of BiH institutions? I won't elaborate the question. We know a lot about what, then, I'm looking for answers to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9917	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Mr. Gligorić, then Suljkanović, then Mr. Bešlagić. I'm asking questions in writing. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9918	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the College of the House of Representatives whether he has taken care of the already formed investigation committees as they work, given that we have formed an investigative commission in the event of the appointment of BiH public defender, Mrs. Miletić, as well as the Research Commission on Donors in BiH. You have to lead and you're in charge of the deadlines, about whether the commission is working, if there are obstructions or not, suggest to the House that this change be made. My parliamentary question. I request an answer from the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, yes, of course, in writing. On the basis of whose proposal and on the basis of which procedures has been given accreditation to private companies to control the compliance of the quality of liquid oil fuels in the RS and the Federation of BiH? Which of the BiH Accreditation Institute has been given the consent to be able to carry out inspection checks on the quality of liquid fuels? Is there a verification of the conditions of private enterprises, in line with the decision on the quality of liquid, oil fuels since 23.9.2002, which include the necessary technical and personnel conditions, is this all contrary to the Consumer Protection Act? Are existing institutes for control in the RS and Federation of BiH taken into account, and is there any intention to allow the selected private enterprises to be multi-polated over an important segment of fuel quality control and thus a monopoly on transport oil and oil derivatives? Does the Council of Ministers in the Community with the entity ministries of energy and trade and the Institute of Accreditation of BiH enable organised crime agreements and activities in this important area? I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9919	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Mr. Suljkanović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9920	At last session, I had an intervention on the issue I asked at the 17th session on the implementation of the "Fatic Field" project, or "The Upper Horizons". I intervene again, I ask for an answer, because if that answer comes after the project is realized, then indeed, no one needs such an answer. I'll finish this in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9921	I thank my colleague Suljkanović. Mr. Bešlagić answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9922	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues, guests, I have one question, but it has a () and b). It is about whether a railway transport corporation has been formed in BiH, and if it is formed, why is it not functioning? 15 b) Why is no road traffic of the Doboj-Tuzla-Zvornik railway, since it is not expected to enter the timetable for 2004 either? I'm asking the Ministry of Transport and Communications and I'm asking for a written and oral answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9923	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The word has Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9924	I have three questions, I'm just formulating a written version and that, and I'm going to deliver it later, but at this point, I'm going to dictate them in the microphone. The first question is for the Ministry of Human Rights, and it says. In fact, we recently passed the Law, the Penal Code or as we already called it on education in BiH, basic education and one of the provisions of the law obliges the ministry to conclude an agreement in co-operation with other countries and to organise additional teaching for children of BiH citizens abroad. The question, therefore, is. What is involved in this matter and whether anything has been done in the meantime and when concrete results of such a Law establishing obligations for the competent authorities of this country can be expected. Second question. I think it could refer to the Justice Department at the Council of Ministers. Recently, within the framework of the BiH legislative reform, both criminal and civil law adopted laws on litigation in entities and the provisions of these laws provide for one special, I would say a specific procedural option, which is to conduct the process of mediation of parties in disputed cases, in litigation cases. It said, therefore, that the issue would be regulated by a special law. I am informed that the intention is to arrange the issue of mediation at the state level, and therefore my question is. How far have the preparations for the adoption of the laws on mediation in BiH come, as the laws on litigation can't be applied fully in any of the entities without the adoption of one of these laws? The third question concerns the nostrification of the diplomats of our citizens, who are educated abroad and about this, has been and always contributed to both the media and so on, but the fact is that and that there are many problems with this. I know competences in the field of education, etc., but the question is. I think this is also a question for the Ministry or for human rights or civil affairs, which means. When, indeed, in one consistent state-specific and state-level manner, will a normal, effective procedure for nostrification of diplomas acquired abroad by citizens of BiH be provided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9925	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9926	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, 16 I am going to ask one question and launch an initiative in the form of a conclusion. My question today is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and I will start with internal debts in BiH, which have reached an alarming and extremely worrying state, which disturbs the country's entire economy and economy. The question is: Is someone at the Council of Ministers dealing with this problem a) if it deals with the real situation of this problem and where are the problems with internal debts, b) will they, when and what measures will the Council of Ministers take on this matter, because it is high time? That's the question. So, my initiative to conclude is related to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9927	Mr. Moranjkić, I'm not slowing down, but sticking to what's business. So this is the point of parliamentary questions. Conclusions, resolutions and everything else can be defined as agenda points. So, if we were to stick to not turning parliamentary issues into initiatives, resolutions and conclusions, only in that sense would I ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9928	And it's about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9929	So, you can use that to ask a question, but no..
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9930	I'll ask you a question. I'll rephrase myself, and you'll get your letter in writing. I was thinking and I'm going to launch a request, a form in the form of a conclusion that a serious criticism is being made to the Council of Ministers from this level. Why isn't he answering parliamentary questions because they've already become ballast here and taking two hours at a time and why aren't the ministers present to Parliament? And if, after this criticism, there are no answers, I mean, I'm going to launch an initiative to pursue the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9931	Ladies and gentlemen, my personal failure, I forgot to welcome here today the representatives of the Brcko District of Mr. Đap Mirsad and Mr. Siniš Kisić, I am pleased to see them today in our parliament, and I think there should be a procedure and attitude whenever they feel the need and I think it would be good to invite them to the meetings of the State Parliament, because there are legislative matters, which refer to the Brcko District. My deep apologies to Mr. Đapa and Mr. Kisić. Welcome, feel comfortable in the State Parliament. Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avić answered, and I would like to tell Mr. Moranjkić and all of us to have amendments to the Rules of Procedure, in which we will have to have an hour of parliamentary questions and answers on the face of 17 seats of the Council of Ministers and of these sessions and that session session session was returned and opened to the media for the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9932	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I have only two initiatives, one initiative, objectively to partially rationalise our parliamentary issues, and in particular this concerns MPs of the parliamentary majority. The illustrations we have today received from absurdities, conditionally speaking, in asking parliamentary questions the Secretary-General of one ruling political party asks his deputy president from the same political party and party, only one in the second position of the government, which means that, absolutely, we have brought to absurdity what is called parliamentary issues. We ask that you solve problems within the political parties you belong to and simply do not go through parliamentary issues. That's one suggestion. Second suggestion. I propose that within the framework of several MPs, it has also adopted its signatures on this advance and we think that it is time that we entered a new phase of party relations with the international community, so we propose a thematic session of both Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly homes, with the topic and with the agenda and the development of BiH's partnership relations with the international community with the goal of transitioning the Ovrt from the OHR to the BiH institutions. This is, I would say, an expression of both political will and desire and OHR, in terms of the continuity of co-operation and I think it would be good by the end of the current 2003 to organise such a thematic debate, where we would discuss all the elements of partnership with the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9933	I thank my colleague Dr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9934	gospodin Špirić, the chairman of the dom, called.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9935	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I have two parliamentary questions, sent, of course, to the Council of Ministers. First, when the Council of Ministers will put into full operation two very important ministries, it is the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security. It seems to me that almost a year has passed since the election of this council of ministers, these, therefore, the formation of these ministries and that in these ministries we have one, two, three or five people it is not enough for the concept of reforming the justice system and the security system. I think it's been a year too long to show so much inertness in the completion and content work of these ministries. 18 The second question is. When the competent state commission and the Council of Ministers will inform the parliament on issues of disputed border with neighbouring countries. I do not particularly need to stress that these issues are being handled within expert committees, but that the public, especially the State Parliament, is not informed of what is controversial, and every day, I have a feeling that BiH should cross the border, especially when it comes to the border line towards Croatia, which goes to the Une Valley, that every citizen should have one geometer within himself so that he does not end up in prison if he crosses the state border. So, it is a serious issue for the BiH state and I demand that the Council of Ministers and the committee in charge inform this parliament where the impasses are in defining the state border of BiH and neighbouring states. Thank you very much, and I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9936	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Blagojević answered, I apologize, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9937	I welcome the chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, guests and means of information, and I would like to ask two questions. The first question is, since I see we don't get any answers or we don't get a response from the Council of Ministers, I'm going to ask the College. Since I am the last member of this House, I ask the College, I do not participate in the work of committees, is there any possibility that I could be deployed to a committee, and since I know that there are MPs here who perform two or three of those duties and I would like to participate in the work of those committees, so is there any possibility that I too do work in one of the commissions? So it doesn't matter which commission just to be any. Another question I would like to ask, or ask the Kolegijum, if there is a possibility that the meetings may not be scheduled on Fridays. There are a few reasons, but I don't want to explain it. There's enough days between Monday and Thursday, if that's possible, if not, I'll ask and explain for more reasons next time? Thank you. I thank my fellow Spasojević, but please, I want to answer immediately. There's no business opportunity. It is not good for MPs to address the College, when they and their colleagues can have daily communication on all matters. These are issues that parliamentarians are asking the executive authorities so they don't make something out of this that isn't defined by the Rules of Procedure. I refer my colleague Spasojević to the SDS Club and when they determine the members of the commission on behalf of the party to determine a fellow Spasojević. We in the College won't be making any problems, like we're not making a problem for any other member, and that's why I don't think we should use this pay phone to ask such questions, that's the thing you can end up in your party's club. It's true he has a colleague in several commissions. I'm looking forward to you working on committees, but you have to end it with 19 of your party, and if, of course, it gives us a chance and we end it in another way, so please don't ask the questions of the College, you won't get an answer other than orality, there's no business opportunity. It turns these parliamentary questions into something they're essentially not. Mrs Milićević answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9939	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I've already initiated this before, it was an initiative and a question. How can we get a report here from committees working in this home, in which we will see both the number of meetings and the presence of committee sessions. Whether there are competent clubs that have delegated their people to committees, or I think it is, however, the job of our extended college to see if some people are the reform members of the commission, coming or not to them and how it is done. Or if there's a way if someone doesn't want to. Here's a man who'd love to join the committee, and we have people who write, they're said to be members of some commissions and they're not on those commissions. So in order for us to become more operational and work better, I think that someone must get these reports here and agree on how to strengthen the commission's presence and activate their work. It would also be a question or initiative as to how you can accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9940	I thank my colleague Milićević. Jelina Đurković answered her word. But, please, please, therefore, every commission has a duty to report to this House. The commissions work at the covorum. When you get the report, you'll have a chance to talk about commissions' work reports and there's no need to address the College when it comes to these things, because you know how the commissions are elected. I ask you, if anyone has no questions, in a manner as defined by the Rules of Procedure, not to ask each other a question, because it loses the sense of a parliamentary question. Mrs. Jelina Đurković answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9941	My question goes to the Council of Ministers. In violation of the arms embargo on Iraq, the White Eagle has been sanctioned. From the media, the public found out that both the Vitezit and the Brotherhood also violated the mention of the embargo, which the Federation of BiH government has reported. That's what I'm asking. What the Council of Ministers has done in connection with the violation of the embargo of the Knightsite and the Brotherhood and when the public will be informed, and according to the OHR, I request that the report on the infringement of those organisations be made known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9942	I thank my colleague Đurković. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on MPs' questions and 20 answers, and we're moving to the 3rd item of the agenda. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions in the second reading Can we agree to go to item 4 and ask in the break that the Commission finishes and when we clear that point we move to this point of the agenda? When we get to that agenda point, I'll inform you with all the information I've received from international institutions and international representatives in the meantime. Ad.4. The proposal for a law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH, the second reading of the proposal for this law was adopted in the first reading at the 21st session. As you know in the discussion, there have been a lot of proposals for certain improvements in the text of the law, so we have suggested to the clubs that in one tolerance atmosphere it makes up the amendment and that everything that contributes to the text of the law be accepted, taking into account the discussion at the last session. However, in this time, we received amendments from Mr. Joza Križanović and it seems to me that he was the strongest in the previous session. I remind you of a report by the committee responsible, which has adopted 15 amendments and they have become an integral part of the text of this proposal. I'm opening a debate on this law in a second reading. Who's answering for a word? Is there a need for Mr. Križanović to explain his amendments? There's no need. Is anyone answering for a hearing? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate and I'm moving ladies and gentlemen to a statement on amendments first and on the law. We move on to a statement on amendment number one, Mr. Križanović. Amendment I reads: Amendment Iva adds new amendment IVb. which reads: "The religious community must not act with its content and way of performing religious rituals and other manifestations of faith that are contrary to legal order and public security, morality or to the harm of life and health or fundamental rights and freedoms of others." There's no need for me to read the explanation. Who's in favor of this amendment? Should we adopt this amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? There's no need to throw it out of place. We've all had a chance to say what we think. So, ladies and gentlemen, out of the 33 present, there were 17 -- against 11 -- abstentions 5. We're moving on to an entity vote. Who is from the Federation for this amendment? Who's from the RS for the amendment? 21 Please report. So 12 from the Federation is for, from RS 6 for. I find that Amendment number I. Amendment number II is adopted, point (a) of Article 5 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9943	Mr. Chairman, please kindly, I ask you to hold a session so that you stick to the Rules of Procedure. You have just read the amendment and I have a feeling that you are doing so deliberately exposed one major group of MPs to the need to publicly say that there is already something in the law that the MP has proposed in his amendment. So no one is here against what Mr. Jozo Križanović said in his amendment, but is against what is repeated for the second time in the law and what I as an MP could not manage on 4.a. and 4b. and to the fourth member as it is called the text of the law. So far, we have asked who is for Amendment I, who is for Amendment II, who is for Amendment III and for Amendments. You're reading the amendments now. Please follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9944	I'm begging you, thank you. I don't mind if someone gets worse or better in the amendments. If there's any problem, there's no problem. This session, I have no reason to misread the Rules of Procedure, and I have nothing to worry about, where it says in the Rules of Procedure not to read the amendment, that people know exactly what they're voting for. But the amendment debate is closed. I do, too, may need to talk about the amendments, but please don't leave the scene because the debate is closed and let me run the session. When others chair, they will lead her in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Let me be told where the Rules of Procedure was injured. Please, if anyone needs to explain something to the public, I'll give one democratic... to do it. But when we close the debate, we're going to a plea. Therefore, Amendment ii is brisati in a) in the view of Article 5. I will not read the argument, just as the amendment says. Who is for this amendment, Mr. Križanović? Who's against it? Please report. Please be quiet, we're working. We've moved on to the vote. Who's restrained? Give me the report. So, of the 35 present 17 for – 16 v – 1 abstention. So we're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. So, from Federation 12 for from RS 6 for. We also adopted Mr. Križanović's second amendment. 22 Amendment III In Article 8(2), the following text is deleted: "Historically founded churches and religious communities, the Islamic community in BiH, the Serb community of BiH, the Catholic community of BiH, the Jewish community in BiH". Who is it to adopt this amendment by Mr. Križanović? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Give me the results. So of the 35 present 13 were for, 18 versus, 3 abstentions. I find that Amendment III of Mr Križanović has not been adopted. Moving to Amendment IV. In Article 18(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The law deletes the first sentence. The new text of the first sentence reads: “I can, church, here is a mistake, so new, I read as it says, In the new church and religious community, therefore a new church and, Mr. Križanović, is this new church, new church or religious community can be founded by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of their entity citizenship.” So this is deleted. Who's to accept this amendment? Who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9945	Then I have to explain it again. You're bringing us into position.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9946	Please, we've finished the debate. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 35 present 17 for, 17 v, 1 abstention. I find Mr. Križanović's IV amendment not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why we've exhausted the debate on the amendments. We're going to make a statement on the law with two amendments accepted. Who is it to accept in the second reading the Proposal for a Law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I am pleased to find that we unanimously adopted the Law on freedom of religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 23 Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9947	Only business intervention
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9948	No. We finished the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9949	Just please, Nikola, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9950	Here, here's a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9951	Please, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work on this agenda point and I just want to, for the sake of the public, yes, we passed this law and that is very good, to say what it means when they partially explain the facts about a particular situation. I went out for a pay phone earlier, and I asked the chairman not to explain the facts, or if he already explained that he would explain all the facts. In that
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9952	So I beg you, I've given the amendment to the plea, don't make it. Yes, please. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Džaferović, the debate is closed, amendments adopted. I can't let that happen. Don't say that. You had your chance. Please. We'll take a break, we can't do that. ________: Were there any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The amendment has been read. It wasn't an amendment debate. If anyone needs to explain it to the public, let them explain it in a way that they think they should.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9954	But, Mr. Chairman, I do not need to explain to the public anything, I have the need here to arrange Parliament's work to make the public understand immediately the essence of what is being done in Parliament. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9955	Why didn't you use it in the debate? Why didn't you discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9956	Well, because in the end, once again, after my warning, when it came down to the fourth amendment, you again told half the truth, or half the facts, and you kept quiet. Either don't say one, or say all. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9957	Are you done? Please, nice. Let's move on. But what I am, I'm not here to make someone, or we're not here to think of myself as an absolute master. I'm running a session here and I'm reading the amendments as MPs suggest. So I don't comment on them, and when the debate is concluded, there's no subsequent explanation, I meant it or something. As long as the debate takes place, go ahead. I apologize to my colleague Džaferović, we have absolutely good and correct co-operation, but I don't think this is correct. He has the right to be chaired for the sake of MPs and the public to read the amendment, which is why we are voting on amendments. I read the text of the amendment. Please, nice. So we've concluded this agenda point. Please move to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Petar Kunić. It was sent to lawmakers on 15 September 2003. At the 19th session of the House on 24 September, a request for the proposed law to be considered under Article 104 was adopted. The Rules of Procedure of the House. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 7 October this year. The human rights commission responsible for immigration, refugees and asylum submitted a report on 23 October 2003. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Is there a need for Mr. Dr. Petar Kunić explains? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Who answers the word. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to make a statement of this proposal in the first reading. Who is it to make these changes and supplement acceptances in the first reading? Who's against it? Who's restrained? 25 Please, therefore of 34 for, of 34 present 34 for, no one against, no one abstention, 2 have voted, 1 abstention. Please count nicely. What did you say? So 34 present, 32 for, no one against, 1 abstention. So I find that the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been adopted in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have reached the highest degree of consensus on this amendment and the addition of the Law, I suggest we combine the first and second reading and make this clear to the second reading in order to finish this job. Are you up for it? Thank you. We are going to declare the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - One So we have the same system, of the 35 present, of 34 present, 32 are, 33 are for and 1 abstention. I agree that in the second reading, we also adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. It's Ad. Six. The draft law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) is proposed by the Council of Ministers. It was sent to lawmakers on 15 September 2003. The 19th session adopted a request from the Council of Ministers for consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 7 October this year. The financial committee responsible provided the budget of the report on 30 October this year. You've received reports from the commission. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ćeman. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9958	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. You have recently found that the Constitutional and Legal Commission as constitutional-legal rather than as a competent commission has delivered an opinion on a constitutional legal basis and this is not disputed. Later, the law was considered by the committee in charge, and we heard and saw her report. I went out just enough to say that, of course, the law needs to be passed, there's a lot of justification, etc. But it is high time for laws to be legally coherent and better prepared. This is from a legal technical aspect, from a nomotechnical aspect of bad law. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9959	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Who is it to accept the proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Give me the report. Did you? Ladies and gentlemen, 33 MPs are present, 32 votes against no one, abstention 1. I konstatovati we're a proposal. I'm asking the service, I've seen exactly, it says abstentions, or you're counting or we're changing the counter, and I'm asking the MPs to vote. Let's do it again. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I can't figure out that you can't count 40 MPs. So I see them, and you don't see them. So of 33 present, 30 for, no one against and 3 abstentions. I agree that we adopted the draft law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to show also here a high degree of responsibility for the consensus since 33, 30 MPs are missing, there have been no amendments to bring together the first and second readings and to adopt this absolutely necessary law in the second reading. 27 Do we have the mood to do that? We do. Thank you. So we do. Is there any need to vote? There isn't. So we move on to the second reading debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's go make a statement about the law in the second reading. Who is it that in the second reading, we should accept the proposal for a law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Insurance Agency in the second reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So of the 33 present, 30 for, 3 are restrained. So I realize that the proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina has also been accepted in the second reading. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Proposed by MP Sead Palavrić. It was sent to lawmakers on 1 September 2003. At the 18th session, Dom adopted an emergency procedure application in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 23 October. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is a competent commission. You received a report from the committee in charge on 24 October this year. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that we should adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen of the 35 in attendance were 32 MPs, with 3. abstentions. I konstatuj that we adopted the Proposal for a Law on both amendments and additions to the State Service Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Please nice, see, as far as the second reading is concerned, I voted in favour of the law in the first reading. There are dilemmas, so I don't mind if you vote, but in the second reading, I can't support the full text for reasons because it applies there to all officials working in the Ombdusmen's office who are exempt from the Law. But if the MPs agree, I don't mind saying it in a second reading. 28 Do We Have Consent? So let's face it. No problem. Who's to make a statement in the second reading? Who's against it? Who's being held back? We'll finish it. Everything must be democratic and by the will of the MPs. You don't need to take it, of course, it opens up a big mistake. The first part I support, the second part I don't support, unfortunately. So there were 35, for there were 20, there were 8.6 abstentions. We're going to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? 17 for the Federation, no one from Republika Srpska is in favour. So we don't, go to the alignment, if you can't achieve the consensus so go to the regular second reading going to another reading. So we passed this law in the first reading and goes regularly into second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we're crossing, I'd like to give it now, I think we could take a break at the club's request by 1 o'clock. I therefore ask the Constitutional and Legal Committee to take positions on the 3rd item of the agenda, in order to move to the 8th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9960	The attitude is busy, the report just wasn't prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9961	Please report to prepare and return to the third item of the agenda. Thank you, please, so break until 1:00. We're going back to the third item of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] It's Ad. 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading There is no need for me to repeat to you that we have received two letters, one from the OHR and another letter from the High Representative that we have shared with the MPs on suggestions regarding this law. 29 We received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Is anyone answering for a word? I'll take my word for it. Advise me, please. I'm taking my word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9962	gospodin Špirić, the chairman of the dom, called. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9963	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, you know that the amendment to the Law of Conflict of Interest I did 2-3 months ago in agreement with the Permanent Election Commission and after that was a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that adopted the principles of this law. The constitutional basis of this law, and simply in the debate conducted in this law, was the opinion that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, or MPs, should be allowed more time to define additional amendments and proposals, useful proposals for this law. What I think and what I thought and then thought was that the additional amendments had to be related to the amendments and additions of that law, so to those members who change. Unfortunately, I must conclude that MPs have proposed amendments and additions and other members, which would practically mean that after these adjustments, it would be better to do a new law quietly than to apply the corrections, amendments and additions of the law. In this regard, I appreciate the effort made by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but what I am saying after one OHR warning and after another warning from the Office of the High Representative, therefore this is not the only reason why these warnings have arrived, I think it would be good to make a statement today on this starting text, but of course we must also make known the views of the relevant Constitutional and Legal Commission and the amendments submitted by the MPs. In that sense, I would ask today for a real mood to come up with a change and a supplement in the sense that the Law on conflict of interest could be interpreted more adequately, to allow the Permanent Election Commission to do its job in line with these amendments and adjustments. I must say that I have had contacts with the Permanent Election Commission and it is a overwhelming opinion that these adjustments and additions will make it difficult for the Permanent Election Commission to help it do its part of the job in a good way. And I've been obliged as chairman, as a proposal to inform you of course. There's no need to read these documents I got. You all have them in front of you, but here's what I'd like today in the second reading, this second reading results in the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. I'm thanking you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9964	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9965	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think there is a need to clarify a few questions regarding the bill's proposal. You know that here it is, and fellow Špirić has said so by the legislator of this assembly, Špirić, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission first in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure discussed the constitutional legal basis, concluded that there is a constitutional basis and continued as a competent commission to prepare the report that you received in such a way that the amendments and some kind of legal technical corrections were covered by the first report. Meanwhile, a number of other amendments have arrived, so if I am not mistaken, if I have remembered since 23 last month, before the first reading of this house, the Commission has somehow received a mandate from this home to consider amendments in the meantime, and that the opinion of a number of members is supported, I would say to both this Parliament and legal experts that not only can be intervened in the framework of the law, if it is about the amendments and additions of those members that are proposed through amendments and additions, but through the text as a whole. I am speaking for myself, however, so you have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and therefore I want to say one fact, I am personally closer to the legal position that amendments can be intervened and amendments can only be intervened on the text of the law which covers amendments and additions. However, the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission was last time and it was accepted by this House, to allow MPs to intervene on the integrated text of the Law on Conflict of Interest. Why does this matter? The Commission has acted in accordance with the mandate given by this House. The report you received was the Commission's view, the truth of the will the Commission had, of course I can find it and it is not a disputed letter from the High Representative and some other assessments which spoke in favour of the detention only in that, on the extent of the amendments and the additions proposed by counterpart Špirić. But through their amendments, MPs have pointed out and there is indeed this issue as well as the legal and other question that certain provisions of the Law on conflict of interest are at least problematic and that as such they should be seen. It is a very important finding and I myself personally, the right to tell you in this sense I have a dilemma, because indeed the solutions contained in the original text in the basic text of the Law can be very critical of the corners of human rights, including those to which this law would apply. Therefore, in addition to the objections which can, of course, be referred to this Commission report from the point of view of the solutions adopted, one thing should be reminded. We are currently, and this is business, so we have amendments and additions to the law that counterpart Špirić proposed in the 31st form and content that implies the adopted amendments by the Constitutional and Legal Commission from yesterday's session, whose report you received today. Procedureally, therefore, it is therefore not possible to declare now only that part of the text of the Law proposed by Mr Špirić. What, however, is why I went out, besides saying it stands as a possibility if we really need to reconsider this and what the Constitutional and Legal Commission has come up with in the last session. I think that the business opportunities in some way and they make it possible for you MPs if you're not satisfied with this and if you want more than this hour to discuss this to wait, to give you the time it takes, I don't know what 48 hours or how long to think eventually about whether or not you're going to invest the amendments. I repeat, in my own name, that we say that you can actually make an observation and here is this desk here chairing this Constitutional and Legal Commission which has not given you enough time to possibly read what the Constitutional and Legal Commission has come to. Therefore, in addition to the business opportunities to resolve this issue, not entering at this very moment what or what is not necessary, or what should be kept in the final version of the Law, I suggest and suggest that we leave the possibility to anyone to observe that amendments to these amendments should be intervened to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I prefer that version than that today, either we vote on this text of the law, or we don't vote. I think we should simply apply the Rules of Procedure in that sense. I have had so much, and as far as the Constitutional and Legal Committee is concerned, I think that on behalf of my fellow Members who, the distinguished colleagues who are in the Commission, can of course promise that the Commission will simply look at these things one more time and examine if there is an objection from you fellow Members, of course bearing in mind all that correspondence that we have received in the meantime. But what you've got is the position and opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission with, of course, not a few dilemmas present. I said I speak for myself, but I must, because I am in the capacity of the chairman of the Commission, with not a little dilemma about this. But we still appreciated that this could and should be supported as you got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9966	I thank Mr. Ćeman, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little comment to direct, to seek a solution. I appreciate the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I appreciate that it has gotten deeper into this problem. I also appreciate that there are a lot of problems in the original law, but someone who thinks that this law or if a group of MPs already thinks that the law is not right to propose a new law, but to get out of this. So we have different options. Let the amendments be made to the amendments. But if we want to comply with all the regulations that have come, then there must be an amendment to the amendment. So it's a fact-finding of what she did constitutionally-- 32 legal commissions. So there are two solutions. To realize everything, so to finish the job, we have a chance that this home will not accept, therefore, by estimating the effort that has been done not accept the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to adopt the original text, or to seek another solution. But not to accept for the reason that the Constitutional and Legal Commission did a bad job, but that it did this dilemma formally legal outside of what the request was for a change. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission has entered a broader treatment of this problem than were the requirements for amendments. So, I'm trying, so please don't invite me to the replica, I suggest just. We'll see what will be the dominant attitude of this home. So there's one other way or another. I suppose we'll come up with the best way to make changes and additions that can help the Permanent Election Commission, but to explain the law. Who's next to the word? Yes, here you go. If it's a false quote, replica, say so. I'm having a comment without.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9967	It's an explanation, an explanation. The Commission has not come out of its mandate. In fact, the Commission has been tasked by this House to submit amendments to the Integrated Text of the Law, not only that part of which you have proposed for amendments and additions, so that it can process this, take a position and submit a report. So we're not out of office. We did what we were given to do. Whether it's well done, whether it should be supported, that's another thing now, about that being pollomished, but that fact we realize that we didn't go beyond our mandate. I apologize even more for this observation, indeed I am, I repeat, as a lawyer closer to the point of view that when it comes to the boundaries and additions of the Law, although there is a part of the arguments that can always be intervened on the integral text, but I am closer to that point of view that only those members who are directly, directly covered by changes and additions and potentially indirectly affecting others should be focused. But we've been given a mandate, or mandate, in another way I've already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9968	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mrs. Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9969	I just want to ask the chairman not to offer us a situation to make a second conclusion at each session when it comes to this law. I suggest we follow what we concluded at the last session of this house when we said that all MPs can intervene on the proposed law, the amendment bill, and the basic text. That's what we did. The Commission did its 33rd job and I think it's a really short time to look at the letter that came from OHR today and look at the entire amendments that passed yesterday. I think it would be best if we put this issue off for 21st when we have a session, and until then we go to the amendments to the Commission's report, to the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9970	Please, nice. And I respect what Mrs. Palavrić said. If additional time will help this home find a good way out, I'm absolutely in. So we can make a decision to give Parliament time to the next session, so for amendments to the amendments to bring this back in line with this, so that's one of the exits. So I ask you, therefore, that today we do not waste time in discussions, therefore, with the aim of reaching changes and additions in accordance with the initial text, and therefore I ask the MPs who want to intervene on what the Constitutional and Legal Commission has done to do so so that we may be able to plead at the next session. Do you agree with this conclusion to plead? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I'm thanking you. So we found a way out, so we're giving time, a new time to the MPs that I can intervene to make this a point at the next session that will be on the 21st of this month. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to agenda eight. It's Ad. 8. The proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) is proposed by the Council of Ministers. It was sent to lawmakers on 13 October 2003. As you know at the 21st session, the House has not adopted the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and the legislative proposal is considered in the ordinary procedure. Sorry, mistake, we've made so we've made a decision to consider this law in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 20 October. The financial and budgetary committee responsible has received a report from the committee responsible on 5 November. I am opening a debate in first reading on the proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's calling? Here's my word for it. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9971	The speaker of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9972	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, esteemed ministers, until someone prepares for the debate, I will use this time to express my view of this law. I want to say that it's been working a long time to draft this bill, that it's one of the system laws that is very important to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and its citizens. I want to state the SNSD's position, and it's my party that we are in favour of reforming the tax, customs system, but also that we are ready to speak openly about all the weaknesses and shortcomings offered in these and other legal projects. The example would be said at the last session when we discussed the procedure whether I had different discussions than that the entities needed to declare themselves to create a constitutional basis. I would like to say that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska has made a decision, passed on powers to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to discuss this issue, so that it has created a constitutional basis for state lawmakers to be able to discuss and plead on this law. What follows this law and the public atmosphere that was created unfortunately does not, in my assessment, contribute to the creation of a good atmosphere in order to simply come to the necessary system law. In fact, the law did not even enter the parliamentary procedure, but was so much of a pressure from domestic and international ones, as if this law should carry the wind through Parliament, and that we all talk as in dense fog as we have so professionally and metrically debated, had the opportunity to make observations, to adopt such an important law for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say, I was also present within the National Assembly when this law was debated. I'll give you a piece of the atmosphere before I move on to this. They asked Republika Srpska's Finance Minister if the law has a constitutional basis or not. He answered and he said - I'm an economist, I'm not a lawyer. You can imagine in which country the minister could, or entity of any organisational unit, say he's an economist and that he doesn't care whether he has a constitutional constitution or not. Then, they asked the president of the Republika Srpska government, when these laws come, whether there is a social account, what is lost, what gets, what is transmitted, what is not transmitted. Are there any economic accounts? His answer was, you know, ungrateful forecasts. That was the response of the Prime Minister of Entity. Mr. Mladen Ivanić, when it was, as the prime minister said at the time – that I care about the law and there will be no account. But it was also Mr. Mikerević's opening speech when he was elected Prime Minister of Republika Srpska. So this is just a reminder for this reason, this has nothing to do with this measurement of what I'm going to talk about today. 35 Ladies and gentlemen, there are also good in this law, but there are also bad solutions that will have damage both Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities and its citizens. I am opposed to the fact that different expert committees are internationally framed by which a representative of the local authorities, I cannot talk about experts, making money and leaving this country, or seeing a good job, so that it can attach itself to this job through domestic legislation. I am against such an attitude and I belong to that category of politicians who think that we really have come into a situation to be partners with the international community, not to be a polygon and to be advocacy to solutions and what we offer to our citizens, children and generations who will live in this country. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I should move specifically on to the text of the law to say a member, so I have also submitted, of course, amendments to this law, and I regret that there was no understanding in the Commission that these amendments should be adopted, that the conditions for me to vote for principles when it comes to this law that we are talking about today. Let's say in Article 11, the duration of the term of office. It says – the director is named for a period of 5 years. Nowhere in the world in any country in the world has I seen such an important institution as the director of this administration of indirect taxation that there is no deputy. What are we gonna do if a man doesn't god break a leg? Something's happened to him. Who will act as director. Why are we afraid in this country to say that we are forming normal institutions where the director will have his deputies? Can't the rulers agree that the director should have his own deputy? Is that a big political question, or is it a technical question? But I suggest that the director, wherever the director stands, is said – and his deputy. And then some gentleman who took power sits down and settles who will be of which people to meet all the criteria. I think those criteria can be met. Another thing in the Law in Article 16 is mentioned and said – the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to warn you that such a ministry does not exist. The Ministry of Finance and the vault doesn't exist. If this law is intended to establish a finance ministry and that there is a ministry of vaults as one narrow part I have no objection. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9973	There are finances and vaults.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9974	So it was a change and a supplement. Okay, okay, no problem. It's easy for Nikola to make up for her mistake. So that's the change and the supplement's over. I'm sorry. So I'm staying on this with the director and the deputy, there's a director and a deputy. It's been a change since the constitution of the new Council of Ministers. The second thing in Article 19 is said – the Committee makes decisions by consensus. So by consensus, then it's said -- in the event of lack of consensus, decisions are adopted as follows. So concentrate or not concentrate. But I am so that it stands unless the consensus is reached within 30 days that an initiative will be launched to replace the board members. To build the principle of responsibility for the exercise of power. Why would someone achieve a 36-consensus we don't have to, why would they even do it in this country? But if the principle of responsibility for the consensus is put in place, I'm telling you that on the most important things in this country, the concessions will be achieved. And this is what is said here - in the case of decisions on the establishment of import and out-of-extremities, and any changes to such charges require a simple majority of the board members' votes, including the government of the finance and vaults of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At least they say they include a vote for the finance and vault minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a double interpretation here. It could be both for and against. But why not accept an amendment to say including a vote for if it's said the ministers are to be. And it's possible for the voice to be against, and that's how it's interpreted. Why do we need vague clauses in the law? When it comes to the collection and distribution of income on the basis of indicative taxes, it is a member of 21st you know that it is simply influencing changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the Constitution says that the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will finance 1/3, 2/3. This member gives up on the Constitution and says -- the amount transferred in the state budget will be based on the amount in the state budget for the current year. At least to say -- planned revenues in the state budget for the current year. So there must be some plan at the beginning of the year. It can't be what ends the business year, just what we wanted to predict at that moment. The second thing is that part of the remaining amount transferred to the Federation and to the Republika Srpska and the District is determined on the basis of their share in final consumption. There should be a point, not a point shown in tax returns on an additional value. I'm going to put a dot here, so I'm going to tell you the math I came up with. What the Government has not done, or the Council of Ministers and the Government of Entities, is that if this is the way I want to finance, I want to say publicly, and I ask the public to follow it in 2 years that, based on indirect taxes, the entity will be returned to Republika Srpska 2.6% of the income. What does that mean? This means that already now Mr. Mikerević must plan to raise direct taxes by 30%, which means that citizens will be chasing power in Republika Srpska. The Federation won't get any better. But it has to be, it has to be spoken out in public about these things. For such laws, bills must be subdued, not hidden political will, which they do not even have the power to defend publicly. And that means ladies and gentlemen, that this law, if entities are the will of the ruling parties, is called this, even though it is their child, that this law is called that it is run by a paternal state. In 2 years, the content of entities in this scope will not be able to finance. I don't mind, but let it be made public as a document, or let it be denied that it isn't. Why is he running away from the bill? Why hasn't any government or government ever brought an account into this law? It's said to prevent tax evasion. I agree. Is there anyone to calculate so that we can ask that power for a year and a half to be prevented or not prevented. Or it'll be a product of political will and advocacy to come up with radical legal solutions. The second thing is, here in the same article, and at least they have qualified in the Council of Ministers to read the text of the law by the end of the call for Article 26 point (i) of this Act, instead of Article 21 paragraph 1 (ii) of this Law. So read the 26th point, point 1. What is this article being discussed? That was corrected on the proposal, so Amendment 37, which I suggested. I'm talking about principles. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So it calls for the existing text of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of Article 25, I just want to say that the international community and their experts can pass the law and push it into a procedure, and our obligation is ladies and gentlemen for future generations and for those who live to get serious. Whoever finds me in any law of Europe and the world that a member of the 25th is a double negative, I will swallow this member. It says – especially from the provisions of Article 4(1) of this Act, the administration is not in charge of the collection and distribution of the following indirect taxes. Then under i) sales taxes, including fees for railways in Republika Srpska on goods and services, except. Double negative. No Niko living here can handle who they want, a clear and precise law. Furthermore, what is particularly important for the state parliament, and I want to say to the public for Bosnia and Herzegovina – the first chairman of the committee. Please, this is very important for the public and the messages sent by the international community and the letters that we receive, where we are all Malta not the enemies of this country, and only those friends. He says - except for a member of this 16th law, the first chairman of the board is an additional member of the board. The first chairman cannot be a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina or of one of the SFRJ's successor countries. The first chairman cannot be with the foreign citizenship of the SFRY or its successor countries. Gentlemen of the State what are we doing? Is this a violation of basic human rights? The first chairman can't be the one being prosecuted in this country, who's a criminal thief. But if we pass a law in which a citizen of our country cannot function. I ask you is this a principle that needs the state parliament to support, or to delete this principle. I, as chairman of this House, will resign and I am prepared to run for office, so let them tell me I don't understand the area. How to tell a finished student in Sarajevo, Mostar, Zenica, Tuzla, Banja Luka that he can't be this in his country and that someone from Czechoslovakia, from Britain, from France, or I don't know where he can be from. If the Dayton Agreement created the basis that the governor of the Central Bank could be, not every institution where there is money covered by abroad can. So that's a principle I can't support and I won't support this law for this principle. I ask that changes be made and that it is simply possible for people of this country to be members of the boards of directors, bodies formed. Article 29. - voting procedure. So on principles, this isn't the details, I'll file the amendments. Don't be nervous. What's this? What is this, I can't figure out what speed this is supposed to swallow? We'll be out of this area in a hurry. Those looking for jobs will come, so we'll tell the citizens how busy you all are. Please, nice. So it is the chairman's duty to declare whether the consensus has been reached. Please, I bestow you to Bogo. Well, it either exists or doesn't exist. And then if there's no 38 anywhere to look at the prefix for, it won't be so that members would be acting like it could be like this, it could be like that. And what I have as a principle to add is Article 32 where it is spoken and said – on the date of entry into force of this law, all movable and immovable assets of earlier customs administrations, the bonds rights of earlier customs administrations, and things in the legal possession of earlier customs administrations, including archives, files and other documents of the administration can be directly used and managed by them, to change them in a manner that the Director considers to be the appropriate satisfied needs of the administration. So then down he says, within 60 days, he should book them, etc. as ownership of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's it gonna be, I'm asking a question if a man breaks a leg? Who will create the conditions for the administration to function. And the other thing. I think this member should say that what was an investment, which now makes entity administrations belong to entity governments, so property, and that the entity governments can give it for permanent use to create a legal basis for optimal management work. Who's that bothering? And why does it bother you? Why does he want to change his ownership relationship through this law? I can't support this principle, of course. And finally, what is particularly wrong with the principle is Article 35 (or Article 30 e)? - You don't understand) so people have managed to provide the legal work they're doing next to our experts. It says - over a period of 5 years after the entry into force of this law, the Committee will hire the services of the external professional body to carry out an annual review of the work of the administration as well as an examination of the collection and distribution of the revenues made by the administration. The process is conducted with full co-operation from Bosnia and Herzegovina's public audit institutions, the Federation and Republika Srpska. Ladies and gentlemen, if in five years we don't develop our audit offices so they can audit both outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's hard for us. Who made the decision to give someone a job? Who knows now that they're going to need a review? Can't domestic institutions do this, but be her viewers of fine earnings on the audit reports. So we will be criminals who are being wasted, and those who make fine payments to these professional services will be European and world gentlemen. I am against these principles and I publicly defend my position. I can't support that a citizen of this state can't be a member of the administration and president of the administration. And I can't support the fact that we're going to write in the law that someone's going to get a job in five years without our auditors' houses working those jobs. And of course these other principles I mentioned. Of course, the financial committee in charge and the field office budget has expanded. I hope we can talk about it today. I did not consider it appropriate to write amendments, because this is a key principle on which the partners of Bosnia and Herzegovina agreed. I didn't want to be destructive on that principle, and I didn't define the amendment. When the amendment was accepted by the Finance and Budget Commission, I defined another amendment which I will not explain and I am prepared to remain on the principle defined in the Law, if it creates the will to adopt the law. But unless it comes to the application of these principles, I will not support this law, but I publicly want to say why I should not support it and publicly say that I am in favour of reforming the 39 customs and tax systems in this country, but I cannot accept radical solutions as a reform. And I would like the European Parliament to say whether, we are members of the Council of Europe, this law would endure that test in that parliament that the state proposing the law proposes to its citizens to function in their own country. This principle is unsustainable from the point of view and the protection of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9975	I thank Mr. Nikola Špirić. Mrs Seada Palavrić reported to correct the wrong allegations, and then before I give the word and the chairmanship to Mr Špirić the order is Križanović, so Avdić, so Hadžiahmetović, for now, so here is Mr Gligorić, so Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9976	I will remain only on what I believe to be guilty of putting Mr Špirić on display, and I will not speak at this time about his other remarks contained in the amendments. Therefore, an objection to Article 21. A bill of law. Mr Špirić says a solution has been offered against the Constitution. I remind you colleagues that Article 8.3 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides that the Federation will provide 2/3, and Republika Srpska's 1/3 of the revenue needed for the budget, unless the revenues are collected as determined by the Parliamentary Assembly. So Article 21 uses the possibility from the Constitution that the Parliamentary Assembly otherwise determines the collection of revenue into the budget. And when it comes to Article 35, so on external audit, I allow myself to be wrong, and I think the Minister will explain, on behalf of the Proposer, I don't observe strangers under external review, I don't understand that these are foreigners, but that this is an audit that isn't within the administration, but an audit outside the administration. So some auditory house in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is outside the administration of indirect taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9977	Mr Špirić answered the replica, and then Mr Križanović discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9978	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take these replicas, so I'm going here to defend the project from the point of view of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please understand that someone doesn't think it's a trap to get into entity and entity stories. The election revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina are defined there. So defined. This is an extension. I have no objection to 40, this is enlargement and will go beyond this initiative to change the state constitution, which is quite logical if this law is passed. So it says what the original income is and this becomes the original income. The second thing, what my colleague Palavrić realized, please nice, member, this for the auditory, just to find it 30 e), so it clearly says here, give it a little bit, and we who often fold our shoulders and say that it is a good solution, and then we regret it. This member is absolutely clear, it's just a question of whether you want to understand and whether you want to defend him or not. It says - over a period of 5 years after the entry into force of this law, the Committee will hire the services of an external professional body to carry out an annual review of the work of the administration, as well as an examination and collection of the sales of revenues made by the administration. This procedure shall be carried out with full co-operation from public and audit institutions. There's no other house than a revisirical house that's home for control. That doesn't exist. And here, right here, you're thinking of a revision, an external audit like a revision in Republika Srpska's telecom. You understand. So, but please nice, I want to clarify the law. That's what I insist on, if even this is, it has to be explained by a member of the law that we don't interpret it twice. But God Bog, in this country, domestic institutions are going to audit. Where there's money for them, there's no room. Don't worry. Don't be afraid. Here audits are done for millions of figures, and then messages are sent that citizens are hungry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9979	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word is Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9980	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk much today about the history and genealogy of the creation of this bill, I will stick to today's debate on the principles and principles of this law so that I will be very brief. So, starting from the fact that this law should regulate a single system of indirect taxation that will support macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including its entities and Brcko District, we consider and express great satisfaction that today we are discussing this very important law in this House. As a result, I would like to point out a very significant definition that we consider very unprincipled and that is not sustainable for the position of the board of directors in this law. According to the Bill of Law, the position of the Management Board as defined in this law would therefore ensure a dominant position in the Management Board compared to the executive rule of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That would therefore make it impossible, above all, for the Council of Ministers to simply be denied for a very significant segment of macroeconomic policy. The question is actually, is it possible that there is a body above the Council of Ministers that will establish these policies and make it possible to say the highest executive body in Bosnia and Herzegovina even less responsible for this poor situation in the country. If this 41 is added to add that the chairman of the board of directors will be a foreign citizen, we believe this prevents Bosnia and Herzegovina from moving truly through real reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the responsibility of domestic authorities will continue to be at an invisible level. We think this is one, to say anachron process. Eight years after Dejton, when here is soon the governor of the Central Bank or the state of odbusmen to stop being foreign citizens, we are introducing a foreign citizen to the head of a very important institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the next five years. And I must say that this is in stark contrast to our commitment that we unanimously supported here a few months ago that in the next 5-6 years, we will be a member of the EU and NATO Pact. Now to be clear, of course, I want to point out again that we deeply appreciate, respect and that we are grateful to the international community for its presence and assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina. But, of course, that happy fact must be used by far as far as possible to get on our feet as quickly as possible and that it is high time for domestic times to take on far greater responsibility for the state and future of this country. So here's one principled reason, not only is it principled, but it reflects our deep belief that we have our own powers that we can lead our own forces a very important institution and, of course, it's about one political will and it's about one political respect, understanding and trust. So here's how much I think this is, in our opinion, one very principled reason why this provision should be amended. This provision therefore concerns Article 3 and Article 4, in particular Article 14. So when there's a debate on the second reading of the amendments themselves, of course we'll use the right to talk about it, but so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9981	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Sejo Avdić, Dr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9982	My colleagues and colleagues, MPs, honored guests, I would also like to say a few words about the simple essence of this law and the basic principles on which this law is based. But before that one fact should be pointed out, and this is finally the time indeed, what counterpart Križanović says that the Council of Ministers ceases to be just a transmission of simple laws or projects, legal ones that come to us from the international community, OHR etc. It is a surprise, it is a real, simple responsibility of the Council of Ministers that it can simply allow, in the text of the Law, 8 years after Dayton, this country that is pleigning is soon to simply complete its step towards European integrations, that the chairman of the Committee, and so the board of directors be simply a foreign person, which means that in some way all 42 conflicts of this law and non-cooperation and resolution, objectively, roads on one side of the OHR and on the other side of BiH, the institutions of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what's just worrying. And I didn't accidentally propose and seek once again objectively, under the urgent appointment of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and simply representatives of the international community to agree on co-operation, to agree on communication, on the simple flow of information, on the flow of simple legal projects, etc. etc. And I think chairing that it would be necessary, before considering this law to be an initiative to the OHR on our part, for us to sit together at least to clarify this law, not simply at the House of Representatives, that we simply communicate or simply discuss it this way. So it would be good to agree with the OHR initiative on the part of the House of Representatives and simply try to establish this active relationship with the international community. Specifically. It shows the position of the 1st Prosecution – constitutional basis. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 3.1c) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina under which Bosnia and Herzegovina's institution is competent customs policy. And just before that, the page in Article 38 says the following – the law will be published immediately after the entry into force of an agreement concluded between the Federation and Republika Srpska that transfers jurisdiction in accordance with Article 3.5 (a) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as to enable the establishment of a single system of indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm having an affair with whoever wrote this. Just flip over the page and come to a fundamental controversy that one attitude breaks another attitude, or simply represents a kind of opposition to one another, which is simply unacceptable and which simply cannot be accepted that one attitude negates another attitude only on one page of the text. If you look at Article 23, which speaks of the dynamics of the establishment of an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need to imagine ourselves at the very least, and ask the OHR, in summary of the deadline proposed here in the last step of Mr. Eždaun that it was promised and that it was agreed that the beginning of 2005 with which we disagreed, the deadline to which we reacted, etc. will be the beginning of application of additional value tax in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here he says that after a law adopted in Parliament for a year, the establishment of a system for the implementation of this law will be a year, and a year will be the work of the VAT Act, and two years will be given as a deadline for the implementation of the law that will be adopted on an additional value tax. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can expect the start of application of the value added tax in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the beginning of 2006, not before. So this law has once again extended the one, the dynamics that we 43 have drawn together, which at the very least simply is the opposite of attitudes and the House of Representatives and agreements with representatives of the international community. You know what's missing from this law? One seal and one signature are missing, and this is the Office for European Integration must guarantee that this law is in line with EU standards. He shouldn't go in front of the House otherwise. Someone has to guarantee it. We're not just gonna deal with it. He has the Council of Ministers, he has the Office for European Integration. Let us confirm whether the Law is in line with the EC standards and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9983	Thank you, Dr. President. I'm going to have The word was answered by dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9984	I thank the members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will try this in, perhaps by some unusual discussion to speak on the subject of what is the agenda point. First, let me say that I fully agree with Mr. Avdić's remarks on the way the law was passed, gave a few suggestions, but I can ask why this law. Why do we not have the seal of the Directorate for European Integration on every law? Or, if even the law is a condition, for example. for EU membership or approaching EU membership, or here is the current issue of VTO, why is it not written on every EU law, VTO, etc., so that we know what this is about? Besides, I don't know if there's anyone here who's not an economist who doesn't understand why this is important to us. Whether we agree with this or disagree. I'm saying a little bit more maybe provoked and by the way of someone's suggestions that are quite well-intentioned and excellent and welcome, but let's agree that it's from now on for every legal act, including this one that we all know, those who don't know, can happen that we don't know if this is for example. In line with European standards and norms, should we have to change this in a few months, since we may be a little closer to the association agreement, perhaps to the next step, to EU membership, so that we know whether it is or not. Or, I will remind you of one essential thing that is deeply related to this law, which is mentioned by my colleague Avdić, which is the mechanism, i.e. the general way of passing the law. I'm sorry, but I don't like to remind you of anything, but let me say, three months ago, I initiated this speaker during the adoption and way of adopting and discussing this law in indirect taxation, for this speaker, in the way that laws are made and passed. I was very interested as an economist and read in our media that the SDA gave consent to the Law on indirect taxation, as this party gave or did not give consent. Then we read afterwards that a party gave or did not agree to a defence reform in the defence system and the intelligence system. So our parties have turned into a law enforcement mechanism. When it's all over there, we've become here some mechanism that only raises a hand for or against. Let me, as a member of the 44th Parliament, pass on how I'm experiencing a way of adopting the law in key reforms like me, I assume that you share 99% of you, the same feeling. Or, for example, when there was a debate about the so-called "the coup," I also drew attention here that this is the essence, the distraction from the essence, not to buy into things, that we do a lot of these things, because our laws are made somewhere else. Or let me say that when I was first an economist, not as a member of Parliament, I was invited to a working group in an ambience in which both domestic and foreign representatives, experts, etc. I received this proposal in our language, it was some formulation – draft law proposed etc. with a July date and when I began to make comments and suggestions, even on some nebulous structures, then I was corrected, I'm sorry, it's a bad translation since the original is in English. My fellow Members and fellow Members, with all due respect to Spiric's argument, Mr Križanović's arguments about a foreigner as a member of the board of directors, or for foreigners co-ordinated by committees in key reforms, I will remind you, I will now ask you a question – where are our originals and is there enough political will here to make ourselves originals? This is very important for understanding and what we're talking about. And that's why I apologize to my colleague Ljerka Marić, the resolute minister, for perhaps not addressing her for any nebulism in the formulations of this law, because I know that Mrs. Ljerka Marić is not behind this. He's not the author, because he's the original in English. No, I'm speaking by chance to Mrs. Ljerka Marić, it's been through the Council of Ministers in general, but we know it's not the Council of Ministers' rule. Why didn't he rule him out? Let's ask ourselves. It's not our strangers' fault. It's our fault our originals are in English. If someone doesn't like it, and if they like it, then they probably won't even mention it, right? Here was the point, fellow Špirić is a good part indeed, perhaps and a little more as an economist with an argument in one part, of course he was also a politician, he was talking about economic arguments, and I'm going to say that I'm sorry that I don't really have that amendment, that's all this stuff that's been said that maybe we can see so that some amendments can be passed in this law. With full respect to the Commission, I know unfortunately that the Commission was not in full composition, and I know equally that in our commissions, regardless of what they are called finance, budget, customs, foreign trade, so they are professionally slightly colored whether it is in some way professional, yet a little more political debate is being discussed, so perhaps it is not about the essence or on the field of expertise. Less, more we all know that this is one of the fundamental laws of economic reform, and here we need to talk about economic arguments, about economic terminology, about what we're talking about here, let's get a little bit on the ground of the economy, because that moment we start talking politics, then we're going to go astray, so we're going to get letters from Ambassador Hejs, I guess you've all had a chance to read it, or read in the paper what Mr. Henfris told us. For example, the price of a definition of a larger or smaller number of customs administrations, and few people who understand themselves in the regional economy or in the region's economy, or regional development, will well know that here four economic regional units are surrounded by economic criteria, and they are bathed with these four centers. If 45 we're going to talk about political, then let's open a package, and then there's going to be some other centers that are going to start by this or by those criteria, but then I wonder if we're going to get some law that ends or starts, the real essence of economic reform. With all due respect, all the arguments that have been heard. I support it, it would be very good if we had a domestic man, I know that we have domestic people very capable and valuable and smart and willing and able to run the board of directors. But, uh, the fact that the original of this law was in English, ask your colleague Špirić with a lot of respect I share the same opinion as you, but this one, why is our original in English. And can we maybe so come on, let's make it a transitional solution or if all the damage to this law on one stranger, here I agree to do even that kind of damage, because our profits from the reform in the area of indirect taxation are far greater than our losses would have been from one stranger for five years. Although I would like him gone for five years, none anywhere, nor Mr. Kočiš, with full respect for the name, nor the gentleman coordinating reforms in the military sector, we have strangers headed by these commissions everywhere. And we've had our originals in English everywhere. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I must correct the indeed guilty quote of my fellow Špirić when he spoke of a foreign audit. What wouldn't be audit jobs and services here are this, economic engagement and commercial, which wouldn't be here and domestic and foreign audit houses. Don't all think that these are the auditors who audit our budgets and this remains state-owned auditors of state institutions, so Revikon is a private auditory house. I happen to think he might have more. So why don't we have 150 on our market. So as not to receive reports from independent foreign auditors on telecommunications, on Telekom Republika Srpska, BH Telekom, this and that which can cause us numerous doubts, perhaps even misunderstandings due to the lack of understanding of the terrain on which they speak. Let it be both domestic and foreign audit houses, but the formulation of counterpart Špirić in law refers to audit houses and audits that are outside state institutions. So I guess that was really a mistake. Here, my colleague Špirić used one construction but I deeply hope it is not on behalf of the esteemed Party of Independent Social Democrats, which I know has several colleagues sitting in this House until yesterday in business, etc. Which I know how economically they think. I'm not talking about political opinion here, because it's economic law. If there's not these changes I'm talking about, I'm not gonna uphold the law. Is that the compromise fellow Špirić you were talking about, a fat argument for five minutes. This one, or the willingness to compromise, which is why we were originally originally originally originally originally originally originalized in English. I have to, I'm sorry, but I have to talk like that. Or let's just say here it was mentioned whether we needed to change the Constitution, so it was even said that there would be a change of constitution behind this. Unfortunately, I have to say, someone may politically agree with me or disagree. But unfortunately, they won't, because there's no jurisdiction here as we're going to have a case in defense at the state level. It will not now be the sole state level in charge of taxes and that the entity is either an entity or an entity's role or a jurisdiction, etc. The entity doesn't have any. But we have shared competences in this segment, which is why we do not need the Constitution or the change of the Constitution unless we use this argument for political reasons. Or, say, I'll tell you less, we all know that in international financial flows 46 all government bonds are foreign debt. If the BiH state is in debt, it is in the debt of the state, and we are in the foreign debt service sectors here is my colleague Marić, correct me in the entity finance ministries, these are units of staff dressed, etc. What this law predicts. It's not going to cut down to the extent that fellow Špirić has shown himself to you to the public, which I completely agree with where the calculations might be the one you were talking about. But entities will not now work through the state budget to the World Bank of the IMF through external debt service, but they will go through automation, not to multiply costs, which will all be expensive to us if nothing else reduces costs and strengthens institutional debt service facilities, whether they are in the State Ministry of Finance and Treasury or in the Entity Ministry of Finance. He is not a debtor of Republika Srpska towards the IMF and the World Bank or the Federation of BiH, but is a debtor of the BiH state. And this is quite a logical move to get out of the state budget as the entities are now indirectly doing it directly, brother, not to waste time, not to come into those situations where we've already been twice as far as I know and I think it was more, that because of the delay of an entity to, say, service our liabilities according to the state budget, and the state budget according to, say, the World Bank or the IMF, come in a position to stop us, stop all financial flows. If anyone didn't know that, let them know. It is precisely because of this weather dynamic, cost multiplication, extensive paperwork, telephones, local and foreign emergency, etc. It is precisely this law and reform in the area that at least leads to the least possible measure. Or, say, let me mention, I'm about to start a reform in the area of indirect taxation. If, if we had stopped over the name of this law, the law on the indirect taxation system and read this content, man would have expected a system, a system established here, however, there is no system. But if we don't stick to the titles of the law, or the unresponsible content of that law, this is the beginning. This is not the only law that will regulate tax system reform. It's neither ideal nor ideal, if nothing else because our originals are in English and the translation is bad. But it's a good start, because the alternative is much worse. And that's why, for the principle, as has already been the case in the current course of the wording and work of the working bodies, we fix as well as we can, using economic terminology. Making sure it's economic law. To fix this as well as possible, adopt it as soon as possible, so that if we need it and change it in a month, in two we will change it not, that we understand each other immediately. It's not a substance that's definitive, it's a living matter. We'll bring new laws and sublaws, but let's get going. Because otherwise, if we don't go, I will remind you of some of the provisions of this law that they foresee in their implementation of the ruthless deadlines on January 1st. Fellow Members of Parliament, January 1st is in a month and a few days, and we are first talking about the Law on indirect taxation. We don't have a director, we don't have a board, we don't even have a lot of open political and other issues about the selection of that director. Suddenly, this administration that will implement this law, with the ruthless deadlines of January 1st, or a single account, or whether we will implement VAT in 2005 or maybe we ourselves will extend the introduction of VAT for another 5-6 years. Respecting all, perhaps political and other arguments that one can have and benefit or apply to certain provisions of this 47 law. If he's absurd to some of his solutions, I'll mention that starting with what's of course a good part and the result of translation or maybe a bad translation from the originals, I'll just or the printing mistakes. I'll just mention that one Law on indirect, about a system of indirect taxation that passes to one, call here colleague Avdić is well said in the spirit of European, European standards or in the spirit of the VTO, since the delegation in Geneva, tells us about our membership of the VTO, puts first in the way decisions are made in Article 19 and Article 29 of the introduction of import and export duties. Import and export duties are in the last place in order, in the indirect taxation system. And the introduction and implementation, import or export duties can only be in line with international norms and standards of the EU, VTO, etc. Can anyone who doesn't know or doesn't need to know the nature of the business, because here finance ministers are, therefore, fiscal character, determine whether import days will be introduced, so we can break the agreements we signed and stop our admission to the VTO or we can still talk about being in the shoes of the Himalayas. With Balkan behaviour in European integration. Let me, uh, apologize the way I pictured it. I suggest we move quickly into these reforms. If today is the first reading, let's adopt this law immediately. That we all use economic arguments and terminology, because we have to take care of it. This is economic law. Let's go over and maybe make another amendment, to improve this existing state of affairs. I am sorry that I do not have the amendments that my colleague Špirić has presented to the Commission, because they have ended up somewhere I think the Commission may have adopted or has not adopted, but simply they are not there. But if we had amendments, let's make a statement about them and pass this law. And we're handling economic criteria, because if we open a political package, we'll never have this and any other reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9985	The replica was answered by Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9986	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I was the first to speak and speak of the law and express my vision, not inviting anyone to the line or not allowing him to say what his vision is, to praise this law to the unconscious. I'm even into talking to each other, if not for personal reasons, at least for the dignity of this house, to take care of and address, and I'm not going to remind my colleague Azra, she's a lady, she should know and know it. The other thing is, I don't have any of you to support me, and you say so if we have to make a bad start. I'm up for it not to be a bad start, but to be good, because it's up to us. Please, the amendments have been in the process for a long time, and the Commission, I have nothing against which the Commission has rejected the amendments. I'm a legalist. You will have a chance to vote yes or no and I will not mention the BiH Party at all. Don't worry about SNSD. We have the strength as a party to say what we think and defend our views. I ask you to worry about your party and to speak to the public on behalf of your party. 48 Another thing, I'm not worried about my fellow Azra that a stranger can be the president of the administration. I'm worried that you're about to uphold the law so that a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina can't. So that's my suggestion to the MPs of the state. Where it has to be, but what kind of state MPs are we if we adopt the member in which we are, it says that a citizen of the state we live in can't. Whether he knows it or not, he understands it. Not someone who's being prosecuted like in all the laws, so that's what's up to us. Don't bid in front of the public, I didn't invite anyone to the line. Another thing, an audit outside state institutions. I support you. But why doesn't it say it in the law? Well, that was the essence of my discussion. So it's easy for those of us who think economically. But why the Council of Ministers when I ask the Council of Ministers and Government why you keep them from me. Why isn't there an economic account here so they don't accuse each other of fighting for the coherent development of this country and its entities and its citizens. Why didn't we say e, we won't without the bill. Is it difficult to calculate that the value added tax in Republika Srpska is already participating with 59%, in the Federation 39%. So when it's a return of funds and it's logical what's going to happen. But we have to explain it to the citizens that they don't experience the stress of having someone take them, blackmail them, come into an invisible position, and they'll come into an unspeakable position. I'm not voting for state laws to be the moment of the current fraud, but to consciously say what's right and wrong. I don't agree that we have a bad start because we don't need a bad start. So there's the difference between me and the others. I know if this law was worked honestly, if the parties supported most of this, that this would go away, I don't mind. But I reserve my right as an MP to warn the public what will happen. So I guess that's why we're here. Among other things, as professional and political people. Not now if there's no consensus required when it's done in the wrong solutions, why would we have it at all now? I ask you to allow one democratic debate, so that those who are against the solution are not anti-reformal, and that those who are for all sorts of solutions are reformable, so that we do not have the OHR correcting done in three languages that 100 marks are not 100 marks, but that on Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian, that amount of 340 marks is not possible, please. So, I'm replicating that the principles of an I.D. if possible, but these weren't just, were two principles. Please, we can replicate as much as we want, I did not invite anyone to the replica, believe me, I ask the MPs to defend their views, not to take the right of others to have their own position. I say I won't vote for a principle where a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen can't function and I pray nicely. Please tell me you'll vote, and we're absolutely clean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9987	I thank Mr Špirić and for him as well as the other representatives, holding this time frame for the replica. Mr. Gligorić answered his word now. I apologize before Mr. Gligorić, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, for correcting the wrong quote. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9988	I need to correct the wrong quote. To me, I regretted that many of the argumentable things that have been heard in the discussion and fellow Špirić and other debates before me, I have not been able to pass on this amendment to which we will plead. I also believe that most of the good things of the arguments we've heard here if they've been translated into the amendment we can support whoever is willing to do the revorm. Unless there's enough political will. I was just trying to explain why in the original, or in a law whose original in English stands as a foreigner, the chairman of the board of directors. To try to understand it no matter how much we agree or disagree with it. I think we understand each other very well. If I have to make it right again, I'll make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9989	It's your right. Mr. Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9990	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, after these discussions, I can't help but notice when I look at you like this to keep my mouth shut as if the law were someone else's and it wasn't your suggestion. I expected you to come out and say open our eyes to the opposition, how good that is. That it's good to vote for this, not because it's an ultimatum, but because it's common sense, etc. Because reform doesn't mean a good legal proposal. I have to say, from an absolute negativity, I'm going to take an example from my Republika Srpska house. Let's say PDP specifically and then the SDS completely denied it. Mr. Mladen Ivanić preceded. It's no good, it's unacceptable, we won't, and then suddenly it's brought in English, and then it's good. And I'm going to be quick to criticize exactly that, because if you want to be a reformist, then you've lost time in negatives, because the path from negative to good legal solution is long, or you need to make the most of the time to be a good legal proposal. And that's why these principles are really problematic. As soon as I mentioned the others, I want to say that the Socialist Party still said in its election program. Direct taxation and a single market in BiH, and said that, as well as quality, we will have to propose through the amendments, so the opposition must correct one bad law through the amendment phase, which is phase II.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9991	Well, there are no more amendments to what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9992	Well, they're existing, so don't worry about Mr. Džaferović on the table. And what Professor Špirić said, then Mr Križanović, then Mr Avdić, and Mrs Azra is also the reform part that we need. But not as it comes from 50 different plans, so to speak up, unlike the position of the government, who simply brought something else, she doesn't know what. And when we talk about principles. How to support as an MP the principles. I'll do it for a while, since really the predecessors have elaborated it well. How to support the principle, when the Governing Board is above the institutions of the system, is not responsible to either the Council of Ministers or Parliament. Well, the opposition to the amendments wants to fix it, because it's such an illogicality. Let's take this defense system when we're talking. It takes parliamentary civilian control of the armed forces, etc. And when it comes to this system, it doesn't have to. Secondly, the chairman of the Management Board must not be from or from the former Yugoslavia's space, and imagine neither from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thus, how to support such a solution. It's a principle. The principle of attitude towards people, towards citizens in this country and institutions where Parliament is as the highest body of the legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as in other countries. He can't get over it. Third, there is no institute of responsibility absolutely in this law. No, fourth, fifth, pardon fourth, no question of property solved. peti Džaferović, sir, is the most important one, and this is not the issue of distribution being resolved, so budget income or anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina has done a calculation of who is in practically this division. Sixth, there is no concept of the overall tax policy of indirect taxation. As we enter only this first stage, it was already about that, and without knowing what it would look like, how the system would be defined, we absolutely don't know it today. Who will be responsible if we, in due course, become the hostages of this law. Because in further development, we don't know how he's going to reflect on a concrete state. And how it will reflect on the overall state structure. No Niko's gonna make that kind of answer. Because in front of our eyes, the models of the state collapsed, and that a tax system of indirect taxation would collapse, because no one saw its consequences. Is that why someone made up the analysis, or the simulation, say, what we're expected to do in a year, three, five years? This law therefore needs to be rejected on the grounds of principle, because in practice it will be a conflict with the inconceivable consequences. If we're serious and responsible people, then we had to do such a simulation of what it would look like. Or we will only come in a position to accept someone's imposed solution to put it as our solution, and that responsibility will not take what awaits us in application and in practice. I know that you in power are mad at me for what he's saying right now, because it's best for us to accept it, not to endanger our positions in the eyes of the international community, etc. But I am talking about the future in BiH and I am telling you that it would be good if the Council of Ministers included the Committee of Parliament of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and that we worked together on the quality of this programme, and not that it was happening to us, and it is a practice to pass some law that we last learn about in Prlament. Committees in other countries in parliaments are small congregations, which spend a lot of time on draft laws and then you get quality law and congregations to adopt it quickly. Why won't anyone go that way? And that's the most normal approach in lawmaking. 51 Why do we have the strength and the position and the opposition to say in OHR, this is the procedure, this is the way, and I want to remember once again the people of the opposition, who spoke so greatly, it is an example of civil, political and any other courage. It is an offer of hands to the international community through the partnership policy, which is needed by this BiH, and not by the subjective policy I see today, and therefore I think it would be necessary, if there is no possibility of these principles changing, and I see by the position that it will not, personally, and if I am to reform, in the manner of such a proposal, which has been offered, I will not be able to support these principles in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9993	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Mr. Nikola Kragulj picked up his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9994	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I only wanted to say a few things to the rapporteur of the committee responsible, i.e. the Finance Commission and the budget. You got that report on time. However, there are discussions on a certain repetition of certain texts, as if the Commission had not responded, and if there are many specific discussions on this report, so to speak of misunderstandings or misunderstandings, and we have, even for the reasons that only 12 amendments accepted through the 52 report, as offered by six MPs at the meeting of 4.11., accepted only 12 of those 12 immediately disputed two, the amendment number X and number XII. Normally, with all three amendments, we entered into the essence of the law, or in the principles of the law, and that's just saying that practically, in principle, it couldn't react, or it couldn't intervene as much as further said something else. The question arises whether the Commission should at all and whether it can work or can only determine how much the amendment has arrived and that it meets a formal procedure, because practically someone past the Parlment has already agreed on everything and on all the solutions and what he has agreed, then the practical debate on the commission in this Parliament has almost no purpose at all. We know that the decision-making mechanisms, i.e. for the adoption of laws outside this Parliament, and I must say that whoever accepts it must also find ways to get through Parliament and pass the law, not just this one, we are often puzzled by every reform law and the question arises whether Parliament has a certain competence to change something, or whether there is then a purpose for Parliament to react, especially in the commission phase. I must say that here certain problems around this report have arisen after this commission, precisely because of these two principles of 10 and 12 to just say that the III amendment, in some ways, removes one of the fundamentals of the law, which is that at least some of the control of the administrative organisation has been returned, that is, by way of work that the Committee for its work corresponds to the Council of Ministers of BiH, normally, if this report accepts this Parliament and determines it as a provision in Article 14. which regulates this issue. Articles 10 and 11 shall include interventions on the extension of the number of exposures and in Article 12 concerning the abolition of Article 38. Both of these conclusions, i.e. what the Commission has adopted, there are certain comments. We are not through the Commission, and if we were to sit this morning, we could find a way to find a legal way, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, through the procedures that 52 are scheduled to get you out of this situation, if it is important and necessary to return this text to its original form, in the original form as proposed by the law, but therefore there are certain possibilities of procedures through Parliament, which is practically done here at this session today by submitting amendments to amendments. What I think is even possible and that this will not be an obstacle to the adoption of this law, at least as far as these solutions are concerned, or these decisions by the Commission in charge. If that's just a problem, it's probably possible to overcome. This is about broader problems, based on what has been discussed so far, and this is a question of other principles, because regardless of how much this... those who have worked on this system, it's certainly a great effort, etc. There are many things left unclear and many things for one part of us that we think we understand about this matter, and I think we all have to understand and understand, it remains unclear and unarranged, or not acceptable. I mean, I accept the reasons for the law. We all know that this is important in reform, that this is important for fiscal sustainability, for a single economic space, for functioning etc. but, let's just say, it was hard to accept and if we fixed that without control, this institution could be established and that it was practically above the system, above, practically state. Secondly, it is not clear what the concept of the overall concept has already been said here and it is very difficult to commit to a law that is otherwise very vague in some of its provisions and from the point of view of its settings, very uncertain that the system will be rebuked to the end, some solutions are normally just hinted, and it is very unclear how it will be carried out to the end. And what's certainly the hardest question, that's one mistrust. Because it is imposed through the law that a BiH citizen cannot be the chairman of the Management Board, at least in the first five years or is a mistrust in our knowledge or in our honesty, etc. I also think that certain accounts were needed for the full of the present state, through this law and that part of the law, to round up the system, must be made to know what we are going to do and how to produce through this system, because I think it is not enough just sometimes we have some sort of attitude, more political nature or our representatives of the domestic party government, and also representatives of the international community, where there are several flat-rates, how much is lost because of the lack of income from customs, by tax, etc. on excise goods, high-tariff goods, I think that's all a lot of flat-rate grades, etc. that one literally precise analysis was to be carried out, because, however, we have some statistical data based on which we can spend it in BiH, based on which we can do it etc. and then see from that what is the situation in certain parts, or entities. These are, in my opinion, huge grudges, which make it very difficult to accept the principles on which this law is set out as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9995	I thank Mr. Kragulj. The word is Mr. Kunić, so Mr. Belkić, of the reported only Mrs. Sead Palavrić, also reported to Munib Jusufović. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9996	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, indeed, when looked at and surfaced by this law, I think that in many of its provisions it is contradictory and unacceptable. Yes, as I must express my political will to accept the reform of the tax system, but one I accept reform, which will be compatible with European tax systems, I accept one, making one consistent law, which will be clear and accurate. Of course, I'll speak more on the legal side, because economists have spoken their views and directed many critical reflections, of course, that are in place. For me, it is very important that this law comes from the position of clean accounts between entities and I think that in this respect, looking at it in principle needs to be clearer and more precise. I will go as Mr Avdić, or Professor Avdić, went from the legal basis that was asked. Of course, you have in the legal introductory section, where you are called by the promoter to Article 4.4a, and in the explanation you have that it is called to 3.1c, and in the text you have, Mr Avdić mentioned. I don't think such things can come to this House. This is the Council of Ministers' proposal, and from that aspect we must look at the seriousness of the Predlog that came from the Council of Ministers. The other thing is, we have a tax administration, and it's about a management organization. In theory, I haven't heard or taught the students that the IRS is a legal organisation, and for me, it's really contradictory. Management organisations are usually professional organisations, which do professional work. Here we have the tax administration, which is independent, of course not likely administrations are within other ministries and are generally independent authorities of the state administration. We've got that ripped out of the system. So she's dislocated from the system. She's not in the system. Can politics be implemented by the board of directors? I teach students that politics is carried out by government and parliament. State administration authorities shall apply the laws and provide for their application. I can't implement politics here in principle, so this provision is depravity from the system. Director, we have a member of the 7th, I think, says the director manages the administration. Please, the director is not in charge, he's in charge of the management, he's coordinating activities, he's in charge of the legality of the work, so I guess that board of directors manages the administration. Of course, that I accept Mr. Špirić's point of view, when he said that the administration must have two deputy directors, I am here for many other things, which are not important, because this is really about one system law, about a law that can create potentially conflicting situations, unless there is a law of clean bills that we had constantly in the past Yugoslavia, and you know what it was all about, and that is why I'm pushing for two deputy directors to be incorporated into the law, so I accept this. Article 8 mentions the duties and responsibilities of the Director and the subtitle only states the duties. Duty and responsibility are two different concepts, especially from the legal point of view. Article 8 below, the Director shall be responsible through the Committee. How one can be held accountable through the board, through another body, it's incompatible. It can't stand, it just can't stand. 54 Furthermore, the committee gives its consent to the regulation, the committee gives its consent to the labour rules, that is that regulation on internal organisation and systemization. This is contruding to the State Service Act, and here the tax administration is decommissioned from the system, so it is contrary to that law, that this law should in some way follow that law at least in these parts. Of course, in this case, consent should be given to the Government. Furthermore, in the view of the 8th same member, it seems to me that the director is setting up operational executives, where the State Service Agency is here. Whether we're creating a system one, and the other, so we're breaking that system by some laws. So we want the professionalization of the state administration, the depoliticalization, and here we're getting out of that system, so from these basic principles. Well, the State Service Agency, I guess, is conducting a human resources policy to depolitize the state administration. Article 9. The director shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers, and shall be responsible for the committee proposing it. Please, it's an absurd situation. The government can't choose him without being responsible to the government. These are contradictory things. Article 12 of the payment structure shall be determined by the Director. We're getting that thing where there's gonna be pay outside the system again. So, where will be the special salary. I must say here that we have a conclusion on the Constitutional Commission to ask the Council of Ministers to carry out an analysis of the salaries of all state institutions, not just to be placed on the salary of MPs. We have a salary of 6-7 thousand marks in some structures. Also, the first chairman must be a stranger. Of course, that provision is hardly acceptable. I agree with Professor Azra that we sometimes have situations and relationships, where we are unable to balance relations, but by looking at these things we should not enter into laws, so that at least there is said that the director can be a stranger, not to go from an exclusive position must be a stranger, and that stranger, what Mr Špirić mentioned will have at least 10,000 euros in salary, at least at least. Please, I beg you, the question is, how many young people can work for that salary? How many young people can get a job? Of course, I also advocate domestic audits, not foreign audits, precisely for costing. They take millions for audits, my people, so let's stop once. So, in the end, it is very difficult for them to accept this law, or its principles, since, indeed, it is given, it is very important, but it does not have those elements that it should contain, or is not a law that is at this point acceptable in terms of the position of its principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9997	I thank Professor Kunić. Mr. Belkić answered his word. Have Mrs. Palavrić prepare. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9998	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have closely followed the course of the debate and certainly there have been very useful things, which could in some way improve so far when it comes to this law. Naturally, some of our coelges used it to deliver the amendments in time, which are on the tables. I am very sorry that, in the beginning and immediately before the debate, the promoter did not make certain introductory remarks and that the chairman of the Commission only in half the debate came out in a way to explain some things. I really need to remind you of what we all know. This legal project is the result of pressure, of application, of persuasion of the international community towards our authorities that we need this. I don't remember that any political party and one club of MPs or anyone managed to gather critical mass and do a project, reach consensus and come here. So this is the result of the pressure of the international community, or some co-operation and inoperability of certain political cells or parts of the government, however you wish. In a practical sense, it is the result of a politically expert consensus, agreement, settlement, and normal that we have the consequences of what people here are talking about first, but we need to know what that is about. I am sure none of the 42 MPs understand what it means to be a stranger to the board of directors. That none of the 42 MPs understand what a good organisation means, a functional organisation, a administrative organisation, but these are extorted solutions, barely achieved. They understand perfectly, but these are solutions that have been achieved and cannot be expected to be effective and completely rational solutions when accessing them in such a way. So this is what has been achieved on the Commission itself is missed to say some shifts have been made. The implementation deadlines are still serious. Everything was undefined there, the preparations will begin, etc. Now the amendments have been changed, so they will end up in the process, in the process. The Commission has also established that it is open to the possibility of bringing into the same position ladies' producers and importers of certain products to interventions in Articles 25 and 27. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in what Mr. Kunić said that politics, customs policy, is a state function that through this law in some way has brought the state down to entities, we did not achieve a limit on the obligation to bring import and export duties in line with VTO rules, because we are on our way to Europe, when we are warned by the Council of Ministers' proposal that this is risky etc. There was also a series of suggestions. We haven't reached consensus. Dake, let me finish. I had a real need to remind us what it was about. And we're not ignorant that we don't know it's day, day. Property, the immunity ten times, there is an initiative by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pass the Law on the property of the BiH state. Of course, Mr. Špirić, then we wouldn't have these improvisations. But we didn't want it, and now we have improvisation in the law that we have. Anyone on behalf of the state, is that Prnjavor, whether it's High, whether it's an entity or a state. Who on behalf of the state? Therefore, the State may delegate the authority which manages the State's assets. 56 But, well, to put it short, we will uphold the principles and principles of this law, of course we will carefully consider all the amendments that arrive and determine them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u9999	I thank Mr. Blkić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić picked up the phone. Let Mr. Jusufović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10000	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you of the fact that the proposal for this law has nevertheless worked domestically with the participation of the international community. If we remember a little bit and go back, we will remember that the High Representative formed the Commission for indirect taxation and gave it concrete tasks, which unfortunately included the adoption of the Law on indirect taxation, which the Commission did not complete. But the commission was attended by representatives of the two entities of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community. And what we have in front of us today is indeed the maximum compromise and consensus of the members in that commission. I must also remind you that we in the extended College sat together with the members of the Commission on indirect taxation, attended the session and Mr. Eždaun himself, and that we discussed this law, and everything that is right in it and that is wrong in it. When we discussed on the Constitutional and Legal Committee the constitutional and legal basis for the application of this law, the only thing that emerged as a problem for the constitutional and legal basis was the entity's consent to other indirect taxes, because customs is in the jurisdiction of the BiH state according to the BiH Constitution. At this point, I think many of us are forgetting that both entities have given their consent to transfer the rest of indirect taxes to the state. I don't know why we're having this argument today as if there wasn't an agreement, like we didn't go to entities at all. The fact is, I don't like the law either. He's got a bunch of drawbacks. I'll just say nomotechnics law is amazing. However, what the doctor said, Dr Hadžiahmetović, is so when we are unable to agree on our own. So as long as we're not able to do the texts ourselves, the original text will be in our languages the original English, so the nomotechnics will be as they are. Or, say, an absurd with the board of directors. Imagine the board of directors being a legal person. But that's the way it is, it's in the proposal, and we can't influence it. In the bill of law there are deadlines
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10001	I'm asking you a little patience to listen. If anyone's looking for a break, let them ask. Let's get this over with, please. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10002	The good part of the deadlines in the law itself is not clear and, in my personal opinion, too long to have in 2006 the application of the Law on indirect taxes. The manner of voting in the Management Board is controversial. The terminology spoken of by Professor Kunić, because when it comes to the competences of the Management Board, it is by our right to be completely unusually mild, the entry into force of the law conditioned on the date of entry into force of the Interentity Agreement. It is all incomprehensible in the situation when we, as representatives of the state parliament, adopt this law or discuss it after entities have transferred their competence to us. However, I repeat this is the maximum of what the three constituent nations or representatives of the constituent peoples in the Commission for indirect taxation could achieve at this time. With that, regardless of all the shortcomings, I think this is the new culture of dialogue and consensus that the High Representative was talking about here, which was achieved after the last elections, and I don't think it's necessary to stop caring, building and building. Many have said that this is just the first step towards our final goal. So at this point, we can do so much. And the fact is that none of us here are entirely satisfied with the proposed text, nor is it quite unsatisfactory with this text. What is the leader of all of us, and what should be the leader of all of us, is the interest of the citizens of BiH. So, creating conditions for their normal lives, for their lives as people who will live from their work and a better future. A step towards that is this bill. So, the necessity of passing this law is unquestionable. Since, according to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, today we are reading the first reading according to the Commission's report on finance and budget, I am calling for this report and I see that the report itself therefore confirms the necessity of this law and the Commission has also accepted the principles of law offered. However, there is one problem when it comes to the principles of the law. The Commission accepted the principles and subsequently accepted a number of amendments. And the largest number of these amendments really improves what was missing in the text of the law and I am glad that the Commission did this at home. But one amendment, which is Amendment X, disrupts the principles on which the law is based. Therefore, it disrupts the principle of economic justification of four regions as areas of operations of the Directorate for indirect taxation. And to bring an end, therefore, in view of all that I have said, and also primarily, given the fact that the adoption of this law is a step towards stopping more than a billion converting marks per year in Bosnia and Herzegovina on indirect taxation, which Mr Špirić spoke very often of, with the elimination of Amendment X of the Finance and Budget Commission, the SDA is ready to accept the principles on which the bill is based. So we are ready to support both necessity and principles, so first reading of the Law on indirect taxation. Thank you very much. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10003	I thank my colleague Palavrić, Mr Jusufović answered his word. Let Mr. Spasojević prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10004	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to bring down the law here today, and I myself will be a supporter of those claims that this is in a certain way some kind of political compromise, on one side of the pressure, which is quite clear to the international community, and that the product of this came from what is called one of the reform laws, it is, indeed, because it enters deep into the system by saying the changes and from that aspect, and I can't be this different understanding and opinion rather than saying that such a law is necessary, and that it needs to be adopted. That there's a lot we can get along with and not cheat on, that there's a series of nebuloses that have been reported here today. They are objectively. They're objectively, uh, if in one country we have to vote ourselves that we're underage and we always need custody over us, that no one here can, even tear down the constitutional provisions of our own, that when we're 18, we have both active and passive and electoral rights and the right to be elected, here, unfortunately here we are, and we don't have. And here, all those who need one conclusion today are right, while this law means how long the Governing Board is going on and there are still enough bodies to declare custody of Parliament. Not over our citizens, because long ago don't call on citizens, if on behalf of these citizens we ask that we can't be the head of the Management Board and we say on behalf of the citizens we speak. However, it should objectively take custody of us, too, over the highest legislative bodies of BiH. Well, here's the thing, according to this provision that's in the law, it should objectively, because we accept. Maybe you're thinking differently, the mentality of thinking, I'm a little different.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10005	I don't need a guardian.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10006	I'm asking you not to throw it to Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10007	Whether or not it should be, I interpret this member as saying that a local citizen cannot be exactly from a particular region, says the geographical region of the countries of the former Yugoslavia cannot be, and here we leave it. Who doesn't need it, doesn't need it. That's how I understand it, and I can't help but understand it. So at least from six countries can't be, right now this independent one, but here's a good one, and that can comfort us that we're not ourselves, there's more of us like this. But aside, such a law, we need it. Here, however, it would also be called to the finding of a colleague of Azra who is very picturesque and illustrating if we understood correctly the original better said about this matrix and about something in the translation. 59 about that question, and I want to talk about principles. I'd really like to be helped today by someone but I don't know which address I'm going to address because this right of us except this Madam Minister, which if we noticed today someone has justifiably said that this proposal didn't exactly come from the Council of Ministers but came from some other side, but to help with the principles. Here I want to understand the principles of this law that it says. When it comes to regional character, my understanding of the law is an opportunity. I don't know who just said it, calculated mathematically that only Bogo was given that I could read the regions. The principle would have to be that some region, or headquarters, would cover a particular region that is not in the ovary of an entity. That should be the principle, not to concreteize ethnic borders, or entities. This should be the principle, to cover the meaning of territory from both entities by chance to a multiethnic, etc. That's supposed to be the principle. And to be something that is natural, which is food, which is once before and before this, this Dayton Agreement and these provisions where only a stranger can be the chairman of the Management Board, it was considered that the region is some geographical whole that implies certain assumptions. So that's the principle, and I'm realizing so, since I have one such amendment, but I'm better told someone has to give me here from these proposings, I've taken that amendment from the original. What you're saying, Professor Azra. In that amendment, the four regions stand for Brcko. So then we come in translation we come to the Ministerial Council to Tuzla and I absolutely think, it was a translation, I think it's okay and that translation and that we should stick to both the originals and the translations. For those reasons, I invested this and by sticking to the principle,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10008	And then follow copies
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10009	And I'm not giving up on the amendment. Let's have a debate, and finally let the vote be voted on, but I'd like to know who I can and my colleagues from the dislobbing until the next session. Is that the Council of Ministers, is that another address, so I want to know because we're gonna be persistent and boring to find the one who suggested it... or to find out who abolished the District. If it is the Council of Ministers, does it make sense to abolish its own body, according to the arbitration decision, the only piece of the country under BiH's direct sovereignty. If he is, let him say it. If it's an international community, it's like an international community. Apparently, those who have no idea how Brcko came about. The same is Bčko the district of Bcko has built for the international community. You know how. So the one who suggested the idea has no idea from the international community at all how it came about. I'd like to know who canceled it so we know which address to take, and here I said the principles. So the translation says no one has changed that Brcko, so I stick to the originals of English text. That's it. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10010	I thank my colleague Jusufović. So, the original translation of Brcko, from English to Bosnian, is the Serbian-Croatian Tuzla. Please, just a word, sir, if the replica is a false quote, please, here's a replica, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Spasojević after that, then Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10011	I think the Siscus of Ambassador Jusufović, whom I respect, I am emotionally full of the emotional charge of the implicity, warns that the city of Tuzla simply came into this law as a product of lobbying. It must be clear to him, it must be clear to the objective that Tuzla's regional centre before the war was also in this context any discussion of justification, economic justification, by logic of things and territorial structure simply Tuzla deserves objectively to be one of the regional centres of the administration for indirect taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10012	I thank Dr. Avdić. Wrong quote Mr. Jusufović please, then colleague Spasojević, please be patient. Now Spasojević will offer Bjeljina and then we will have, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10013	A colleague of Avdiću's pre-election activities have not yet begun. It's another year, you'll have plenty of time. I didn't say anything else. I didn't say no to you and anywhere. Did anyone hear me say Tuzla shouldn't be because we lobbyed together and they all accepted it. And that means we don't have any different, but I said there's a Brcko in the original. I agree in both English and translation. It means both Brcko and Tuzla. That was, this one's gonna score.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10014	This was in the original Mr. Jusufović, in the original and just before Mr. Avdić. Please, Mr. Spasojević and Mr. Lagumdžija. Please listen to us. We're close to the end of the debate. I'm asking you to keep your attention to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10015	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, in front of me, people said everything I don't know what else to say, but that's because I'm from that position as Mr. Špirić said, so should I say a few words. First, let me say that this law, according to me, is a beautiful initial version that we and the Council of Ministers should do a little bit, a little bit more 61 to build up, so maybe it could pass as a law, because real reforms are needed, but these laws of people in front of me say that it's really criminal what's written here and what we need to raise our hand to adopt this. Furthermore, I would have an objection, which is why this law that was in the initial version did not accept those amendments that the Commission adopted because these amendments automatically became an integral part of the law, so that we here should have a consolidated text, that we can discuss it nicely, but that we are now looking for what, how was it then only later when Mr Kragulj came out, I am just now not clear. They've brought something that someone's warning them now that they can't do it, etc. The first thing I'd like to say about principles, which is that the first legal basis is ticklish, is that many have spoken about it, so I'm not going to talk about it, but I don't think this legal basis is very good. As for this eradication, i.e. the purified of this text and the erasure of Article 38, I think this is a direct violation of the Constitution, and that this is who wrote had enough hearing that he was smart and that this should stand, because there exactly exists that the entity governments have to agree, make a contract, and then it's just something that applies if it's not written then we directly violate the Constitution. Next, as far as one, two or three accounts go, let's do it and somehow it's a tough thing really, but these are still reforms and we said reform yes. And they probably hurt someone less, someone more. There I am in pain in that sense, which I would like to make two bills. Next, this is where the director is mentioned. I'll make a little joke. They're afraid to be the director of this administration, but Anan Annan. Because you're not responsible to anyone, you're a little attached to the administration, you're a little attached to the Council of Ministers, you're appointed, you're responsible by the Administration, etc. So here if this is the law, that is, this is one administration that is an integral part of BiH should have its own rank in which it is the Ministry, whether it is the Administration and so on. But you need to know the jurisdiction. The largest is the assembly, then the Minstar Council, after which the ministry and the administration, and it must have some order, and here it is a little bit mixed up for me. Especially what I want, those who spoke to Mr Špirić in their replicas. Mr Špirić is extremely honest, and he reads very well here as far as the members are concerned, as far as the audit is concerned, there is Mr Špirić quite right. It has been excluded here, completely excluded that BiH institutions can do so, i.e. it will be exclusively done by foreigners. And we know, at least I know that since I'm in the House of Peoples and I'm the chairman of the Commission there, this year we've given a budget for an audit house no less than 1 million 750 thousand marks, and now we're going to be looking for some new auditory house that's going to do it, by trying to keep all these auditors impartial, to be objective. Which we would doubt our auditors that we pay well, which we would now pay to have another audit house come to us and take away the two, three million, which are very important to us for this BiH, and for this people. As for the board member, I don't think this is the same thing I can agree with that chairman being a stranger. He, as Mr. Kunić says, can be but not imperative that it must be, and that I cannot be imperative, it is said that no one from Bosnia and Herzegovina nor from the area of the former Yugoslavia can be 62. So this former Yugoslavia is characterized by the fact that we are the worst of the worst that we can't be, and if it's about BiH, it's about us, why can't it really be, so we should leave the possibility, this is still the law. It's not titino's time to tell Tito I'm the president for the rest of my life and so it's you that's in the Constitution Josip Broz it's never been but so he wrote that he can do it and I think it's not logical. So you should leave the possibility that he can be ours, he can be a stranger. At any point probably the first year, two days let it be a stranger, while it's being formed, but don't put on some period it has to be 5 years. All mandates are down to four years, this is exactly where it's been five years. I don't know why. Maybe some French model where either the president could be seven years old. And they've been going over it a little bit. Furthermore here, Mrs Azra also nice and some MPs said that this law must have a stamp on it that will tell this law is in line with European standards and norms and that we have nothing to think about and that this is the case and that we do not have to change it again for 15, 20 or a month, to bring it into line with European standards and norms, which is not logical if we bring something to make it a longer period that will really benefit us. Eh, as far as the board's headquarters is concerned, I don't know by what criteria some MPs represent one another, some others, probably how any MP from which region comes probably he pleads that the region is most important to it. I come, for example, from Bleeding. For me, Bijeljina is the most importantBjeljina and I think that as regards the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is one of the most lively cities lately, and it is one of the new regions that has been created, and I don't know why Mr Špirić's proposal was rejected not to be one of the regional centres, if it is truly true, who calculated it to be this very region, that it is this very city, that it is the best in that city, etc. It doesn't matter, but you bought that cabbage from us. So I think this, this law has a lot of drawbacks and, as I said at first, that this would be a nice starting point and that he has to work through the amendment part and I think that later if this is adopted, the horror of these things that all the MPs have said, and here are some things that I mentioned, I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10016	I thank my colleague Spasojević. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija called to say the word. Let's get ready for Mr. Fili Andrić. Is there anyone else to answer for? I ask you to discuss if there is no more, we bring an end. So there are no more reported, that's where we'll conclude the debate. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10017	Dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I join all those who spoke of the importance of this law and the need for it to be in a better form than possible to adopt its application as soon as possible. A Križanović of the SDP Club, Mr Gligorić spoke very carefully and clearly about what I would not like to repeat in any way, but only once more to support. This isn't a slow course or the point we want him to go to. So it's not questionable where we want to go with this law at some point in time for the next three, four years, and who knows how many years, but there's obviously a big difference between us in how fast it can go, and there's a single speed embedded in the law, which I think is slow. There is also a dispute between us about what depth these reforms should go to and how a dysfunctional system of taxation where we have entity and state structures, including cantonal in the Federation, and somewhere there is talk of urban competences fiscally in the discussions that are under way. How come from one conglomerate that now has maybe that everyone agrees that it's ineffective, how to get something more effective. I'm afraid the way this is set up here, we're now replacing a non-efficient system with a less inefficient system. So, to ask if this is better than what we have right now, the answer is probably right. But we're dissatisfied with why we're not going now that some things are perfectly clear to us, that they have to be done, why we're not doing it right now. I'm going to be on my way, speaking of principles perfectly natural. I think the key problem of this law is the role and place of the Management Board. Here we are from the board of directors and then what the Management Board is covering, the management itself we are making one I don't know, I don't want to use big words, but we are building an institution of power that will be stronger than anything in this country and will not correspond to any institution of this country, or even to institutions at the state level as a whole. You know very well what problems Minister Hadžiahmetović has been looking at which problems we had with the FIPA. One simple, small-time foreign investment promotion agency, you start to do something independent, and it's quick to throw away something that when the president of the Council of Ministers asks what you're doing, you get the answer we're independent of. Not to mention a little bigger stuff like the CIA, which we've been trying to get for years to tell us what the salaries are for people in the CRA who go out of this country's budget. Not the donateds, who went, but these salaries. And finally, when it comes to CRA, the only thing we can get hold of when we want to have a serious conversation is to tell them that you are the regulator, but you are not the policy, but the policy in the hands of Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, is as an expression of the will of the parliamentary majority. So, the only thing that kept the CRA from acting like 64 of this, not an appropriate mechanism is just a sentence in the decision of the former High Representative in establishing the CRA, that politics is in the hands of the Council of Ministers. Here, the policy is being replaced and the law of this Parliament on the proposal of this Council of Ministers, giving one structure that when you look at it, I fear that there will be no more problems in foreigners that are in domestic people, but that the people who are there will work on the mechanism that has been given to them will be one power that will not answer to anyone. As a result, I believe that the terrible constructive error of this law is what is written in Article 3 of the policy, because everything is consistently further carried out. In Article 8, when speaking a few words, I only use it as an illustration of the director's duties. You see the director is standing here responsible for the draft annual budget. Logically, everyone makes a draft budget... and then you can see in the board's rights, that in article 14. 4 This is approved by the draft budget of the Administration, in accordance with Article 13 of this Act. After you reach a member who speaks literally of the budget, I thought at the beginning whether well the Management Board is profiling it, so it goes on to Parliament in the procedure. However, it says that the budget is adopted in accordance with the Treasury Act. When you want to read it like it says here, it says that even this House with the budget has nothing to do with it. Because they collect funds, ________: [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Where in a version that I do not have, and in the Commission's report, I only say this as illustrations... then the question arises, I Berize but then the question arises why the Governing Board and the Director especially as a budgetary user, I but you also intervened by letting the Budget Implementation Act go, but it still leaves it as a problem of duality between the Management Board and the role of the Management Board in all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10019	We brought it as an integral part of the total budget, not as..
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10020	Live and see, you'll see there's inconsistency but no problem, all right, I'm glad it's, okay, great. Then here stands immediately in the beginning of a formula that some calming, which can be colluded out of this law. In Article 8 of the Psus, the Director, through the Committee, says watch out, the Committee responds to the Council of Ministers. What does that mean by the Committee? That means it doesn't match the Council of Ministers. It literally means that. The Director should answer to the Council of Ministers, as the Council of Ministers appoints him as an appropriate member in which the Committee of Staff is excluded is not a Staff Committee but suggests a Director, the Council of Ministers adopts him. If the Council of Ministers appoints him, then there's nothing on the board to be responsible for him. As that 65 responsibility is then applied, it is another question which has also not been resolved here because the formulation that it is being answered through the Committee has been accepted. There is also one formulation in Article 9 where the appointment of the Management Director, who is subsequently translated into the President or members of the Management Board, can be relieved of their duties only if they permanently lose their ability, etc. I don't argue that it should be put in this way. But I'm afraid this is set up so that in the context of how the whole law is set up, you can appoint a director here. In five years you can't do anything to him, and you have no mechanism to influence him either through the Council of Ministers or through Parliament. Therefore, this would not be controversial if there were a mechanism of responsibility and the Board of Ministers' Board of Ministers, etc. But when he doesn't answer to anyone, then you put him for five years, without being able to do anything to him if he doesn't die, then we're in a situation that's very dangerous. After that, staff members of the Administration were defined by Article 12, defined to apply the Law on State Administration, to government staff, and then listed very intelligently, I must admit those exceptions. These exceptions mean nothing but that the law does not actually apply. I don't think we're lying to each other, especially in the pay domain, which, again, they're determining themselves by the principle that we've already seen in the law in which it's set up. So people collect salaries, and see what they are and then don't apply them to the State Administration Act. I'm afraid this is too dangerous a thing for a law that's been set up like this, I repeat. And all in a situation where you don't have any control mechanisms, parliamentary and council of ministers over this administration. Then you can see that I skip some things, a way of voting and a quorum, in article 19 is defined. What article 19 also defines. A decision-making method has been Definisan. It is defined how decisions are made, by consensus, how decisions are made if there is no consensus on them, however, there is no mechanism defined here at all to resolve the problem of making decisions unless what is written here is fulfilled. So the deblocking mechanism the famous isn't defined. True, the truth in Article 29 is he defined but in a way that is not clear, Berize and it is not clear as to whether this first chairman has the role of the papa or not. It may not be read, because it stands here for all others, because what is in Article 29 you can look at the last paragraph of Article 29 and Article 19 is only different in the last paragraph inserted into Article 29. And here is a defined mechanism of what happens to all the other issues that aren't moved here to say which ones aren't here, a decision that didn't occur according to the previously defined mechanism. The chairman of this to be clear, has no right to make a decision unless it has been made in accordance with the previous 1,2,3,5 views. I'm talking about the future, I'm talking about the current 29-year-old pardon. This guy from 29 has no right to make a decision, let's just say this one says, correct me if I'm wrong, he has no right to make a decision unless it's made in the previous positions, except for those questions, for the other questions other than those that apply here, which are clearly defined here. What does that mean, Minister? You tell me I'm wrong. If the finance minister of an entity disagrees with some decision, and there is no majority that caught him, which included him, then the chairman, first in Article 29, has the right to make a decision besides that. 66 So, look, what I want to tell you. Neither can he make a decision that unblocks the process. He's the only one you've defined, please I'm not saying but you know what the problem is. What you haven't resolved in this period is how the process of this law is unblocked, and in particular you haven't solved for that period after 5 years or what you've solved. You've decided that after five years, before he leaves, he can prescribe to us what way he'll go after he goes to unblock the processes when he's gone. And while he's there, there's no defined way of deblocking the process. That's what it says here. So, I understand that the thread should, in your opinion, and in my opinion, you need to build a deblocking mechanism. Is this then the Council of Ministers which decides in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act? I think so. And then you can simply change and react. Then in that case, the Council of Ministers is practically someone who affects politics. And then the board of directors puts it where it belongs. But in the Council of Ministers, Berize was defined by the deblocking mechanism. It is in a certain way, with the role of the Presidency etc. But normally whoever goes into it gets to leave. And you know what the problem is. Which then leaves the Council of Ministers, doesn't leave this board of directors. If this board of directors in the deblockation mechanism doesn't solve things so it passes them to the Council of Ministers, and neither does the Council of Ministers, it doesn't mean that the problem is only with the Council of Ministers, but also with the Board of Directors. And we make the law so that you can't do anything to this board of directors. So whoever's the initial generator of the problem, the board of directors potentially, you can't do anything to him again. I don't think that's right. I'd also like to draw your attention to article 23, which is, I'm sorry, but I'm going to skip it so I don't have to bother you very much. Because I can see that since it's a system law, we're usually nervous about them. The question is raised for me, whether in Article 25, I would like you to answer me in the last sentence that says that the Committee must get all discretionary decisions regarding the exemption from or the change in indirect tax rates and the structures that are being made, based on the laws of the Federation, Republika Srpska, the District, whether this applies to the future or will have to verify these so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10021	Now
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10022	The ones that are so far
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10023	She didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10024	Great second, if it applies to so far, then we need to know 67.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10025	Now, now, now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10026	The ones that are now active. I do, but secondly, what I want you to do, so here you need to give the board some time until they can do it because it can't stand because the board won't be able to do it. So, I'm afraid we understand each other. So I think we have a problem, if we understand each other, because this isn't settled by this law, what I said, this transition and you just said that you should do it, you didn't say until when there's no confirmation of the board of directors, then it might seem that these discretionary rights are no longer valid when we pass this law, okay, so we have a problem. You will.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10027	I'd just like to ask my colleague, Zlatko, to continue the discussion so we don't replicate from the scene.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10028	Okay. Thanks a lot, buddy. As far as the first chairing committee is concerned, Article 28, I agree with all those who consider it least inappropriate to say by law that the first chairman must be a stranger. That's why I suggest, not anything the other way around. But to say with a small intervention that says the exemption in Article 16 of this law to the first chairman of the Committee, can be said to be. I also think that especially for me is a controversial last paragraph. And that's who says that once we put it on, it stays for five years. I don't think this one's gonna be a stranger first. But in this case, a member of the last position of Article 28 should be changed, that the first chairman is resolved by the Council of Ministers and that the first chairman can be resolved, and then I introduce when the Council of Ministers assesses that there is no longer a need for a chairman under this article, you may find that in two years, you do not need a foreigner.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10029	Is there any amendment to what Lagumdžija is talking about? None
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10030	There isn't. There isn't one like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10031	Then you're talking for free.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10032	Please. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10033	I'd like to ask you to allow it to continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10034	So what we want to do is eventually solve the same thing if there's no amendment, we'll come and solve it. Well, that's not the problem, either. There's no amendment. I'm sorry. As for the comments of the amendment regarding Brcko, I would like to say that it is good for the seats to be in Banja Luka, Tuzla, Mostar and Sarajevo, and does not mean that it should not be in Brcko if it rationalises the matter, but Brcko does not rule out that thing. So these four aren't at all controversial, so it doesn't mean that if something is rationalized, it can be assessed as far as we're concerned. Yeah, you're right, Martina. And in Article 32 in the transitional and final provisions, it's about property and activity owned by customs. Or I haven't found it, but what happens to property and activity at all documents and similar ones that aren't in customs but in other segments that cover this law. So, this property and the customs records are handed over immediately, and it's not solved what's going on with the other one. And on the watch of fellow Špirić, it is clear from everything that we will not support such principles. Mr. Džaferović, I could have said it right away, and you would have preferred it if I hadn't told you, but I was just against it. But I think this is about letting you, that the things that I've been saying have been very precise, very specific and mildly well-intentioned, although you can read something else in my head, since a few sessions ago you invented a machine to read my thoughts. And I would really ask to resolve this question earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10035	You had a chance to do it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10036	Just a little bit please don't, let's finish the discussion and the discussion to stick to the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10037	This law, therefore, has not been resolved, and one of the reasons why we are against which I have not stated, I will now specify it, and that is because the international community already has experience here is creating us institutions, possibly financially supporting them at the beginning, forming principles and standards that are most often going to high wages, and after a certain period put them in our budget. We have this problem here, so we don't fool ourselves. We have a problem here that something like this is happening to us right now and that's why we're against it, but I would ask that it be procedurally clear why we can't, after this debate, first debate, why can't two days before the debate if there's another one who's going to be at the tide, because the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure obviously here is double. There is one 69 interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that can be done because that second session, if we go to the second session, if you vote today, that, then nothing. But if there's another session, then it'll become a plenary session, and then the amendments could be invested.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10038	Plenary to which plenary
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10039	Plenary session, plenary, plenary session of Parliament
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10040	What is this today?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10041	Well no, we can't today, another reading will also be
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10042	Please nice, second reading is something else. I've got business as long as the amendments are made. Someone didn't take it, and I get what Dr. Lagumdžija's talking about, but let's just get it over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10043	So, the existing plenary part in the second reading. If the second reading is in the next two days, then we could be given amendments based on today's debate on principles. If the debate on principles has presented so many new suggestions that can be discussed, there is no reason for that to happen. And the strict reading of the Rules of Procedure that the amendments have ended as a possibility now that the debate of law has even begun, I don't think it takes us far.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10044	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija, for her word, she called to see if there was any need for Azra. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. I would pray that we do not enter the end of the line to bring an end to this debate. We will come out of this in a democratic way, so, like all other laws, we have the same procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10045	It is not a replica, but I do have the short-term need, perhaps, for most of the arguments expressed by my colleague Lagumdžija are in one communication, i.e. the composition of the Management Board of this Direct Taxation Directorate, i.e. the Administrations of Resolute Ministers, therefore, on State and Two, on an entity-level basis, and that is the bond of communication although it may have been different, but we are not talking about alternatives. But I want perhaps initiated, perhaps with a tone and a way of thinking about this law, perhaps recommend 70 Colleges, we are in a permanent session, we have very strict deadlines and very little time. I'll even say we've broken every possible deadline for normal procedure. That even today even if there is no business possibility that, after the first statements of the amendments to the second, etc. This may be a prolonging statement about this law and thus getting all the time those who haven't used it I must say unfortunately already existing time. As members of the Commission, either through a normal parliamentary procedure to make amendments to something. But if we're going to get quality, I suggest maybe I'm also giving that opportunity an insight. But I'm going to warn you about something about the content of this debate today because it's really a little bit like this for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10046	You called in for a debate or it's a misquote, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10047	It wasn't me who answered for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10048	And you've been arguing before.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10049	And I can't do it twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10050	Here you go. Just so I know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10051	Here's my fellow Špirić boy. Now I'm gonna tell you what's going on. What's this about?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10052	I mean, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10053	Here's what this is all about, here's what I'm even going to say now. Well, 10 minutes ago, I got, like, an MP, like, a package, an envelope with some material, among other things, with official sheets. In one of the official papers, I read the Decision on the suspension of import duties from the customs tariff, which was brought by the Council of Ministers, where parts of the Customs Policy Act were suspended temporarily. I recall the tariff is part of the Customs Policy Act, and it called for Articles 6, 3.. 5. etc. Foreign trade policy law. So it is one really, really hard violation of the law, and this Parliament needs to know and instruct the Council of Ministers to withdraw this decision as soon as possible and this instruction prescribed on the basis of the decision to withdraw. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10054	Thank you Mrs Ahmetović, Mr Filip Andrić has come to the floor and we are concluding the debate. Mr. Miloš Jovanović, is there anyone else to pick up. Please, because discussion, replica, blame the quote just a little bit come on. Please listen to patience is near over. Please, go ahead, Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10055	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, here is now confirming how right I and many of my colleagues were when we discussed that interim law on the administration of indirect taxation, when we had already warned in this way of working and this sort of thing that would not lead us where we would like all of us to go. This has also been confirmed when deciding at Parliament's session on the procedure of this law when I also said that this is an important law, a systematic law that should not be hurried by making it in a shortened procedure, but that it is smarter to do it thoroughly, prepare and then pass the law. A law that will benefit all of us and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to recuperate now like my colleagues are in the order of this remark. These remarks were less and less all contained in the amendments we had on the Finance Commission 3 days ago. I'll just say that out of those amendments, only 15 were mine. Less than all of them are here today repeated except for one, which I want here to especially highlight not as an amendment but as a principle that is simply ignored in the law. And this is that the counties that have their direct incomes that have their responsibilities and responsibilities that have so far directly collected their incomes, diverge from their incomes and literally have no influence on the full process of collecting income and return. Their funds from a single account under this law are already inconclusive to go to the federal government's budget, so they're shared by some keys. Now I don't want to get into it. We'll get a chance to discuss the Allocation Act. But I don't think it should be allowed like this, and I've repeated the amendment later if we get to it then we'll discuss it and then I'll go further into the argument, but it's also not allowed the counties to influence the Management Board, nor that they have their own if there's nothing on the Management Board, unlike the Bračko District, without any intention of insulting anyone, it's one municipality, they have the possibility of having an observer there, if there's nothing to know what kind of policy is going on in financial terms, and the county and cantons unfortunately don't have it. So I'm a little surprised that a lot of fellow MPs have simply predicted this rather important thing, and I hope when we discuss this amendment when we come to this topic that I will have support. As it is today because of the seriousness of the problems and the weight and complexity of the importance of the law we are on the Commission, I expected it to be possible that the chairman of the Commission would present some things chronologically, facts. We've debated really long and 72 exhaustingly. If I'm not mistaken for about eight hours without interruption, we've worked literally exhaustingly on all these amendments. Unfortunately, it's not good. We worked almost on the edge of the quorum and fellow Lagumdžija when it comes out here these remarks to me would have been much more pleased if he had stayed in the session than he probably had to go anywhere fast, so let's just say that we might have discussed it even more through the vote, so I probably wouldn't have voted on three, three of these important issues all the time, I have to say it. Of all my 15 amendments, they all fell by vote three, three. And finally, after all this, such a exhaustive debate of course is lost and the concentration and everything happens and the slip, which I reacted to tomorrow when I might have seen just what happened and I wrote to the Mr. Chairman of the Commission that I really did not deny that I supported this controversial amendment X in the report, by raising my hand but I really thought it was a completely different amendment. I am sorry about that, I asked for a subsequent Commission session this morning, and as I recall, we decided on the Commission this morning that we would not vote later on this, but that we would highlight this, forward it to Parliament, this as information and give each of our views, which should have been more clearly listed in this report, and we would suggest to Parliament that it should recognise this as a new fact and that perhaps we would meet an extended College with a complete Commission on Finance and Budget and that we should discuss this situation again. And maybe the smartest way to get out of it. Well, it could also be worded as my suggestion to the far-fetched, maybe here's that after the debate is concluded to think about this and even sit down and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10056	I thank my colleague Andrić, Miloš Jovanović, for his word, and no further applications for the debate. I'm asking you to bring the debate to an end. We all had a chance to say what we were thinking. I'm not afraid for the fate of the law, if it was honest with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10057	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I vote on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party MPs' Club, I demand a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10058	You're looking for a break before you enter the plea. We're obliged to give 15 minutes off. Here's a 15-minute break. By 4:00 a.m. 73 [[PAUZA]] We have concluded the debate on the proposal for a law on indirect taxation in the first reading. The break was given prior to a statement at the Serbian Democratic Party Club's proposal. Please, Mr Miloš Jovanović, he needs to speak, please. I pray therefore, there's no need to call anyone special, call out, as it is worth it to me that I'm at the table in time for everything. There are no exceptions. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10060	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that there have been a lot of reasoned proposals, the fact that there have been a lot of objections, I, on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, propose that the Assembly, this House, make a decision to give the possibility of still making amendments in 5 days to mean all these arguments can be reconsidered and normally today to vote on principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10061	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that we're going to make a statement, that's business, so we're going to make a statement first on the principles of this law, as is business. I ask therefore that we go out, and then, of course, we will be doing business on this second proposal of the Serbian Democratic Party's initiative. Who is it for the principles of this Law on indirect taxation to be accepted? Who's in? I'm just asking you to be correct. Who is against these principles under this law? Who's being held back? So of the 36 present, it was 26, 10 against and there were no abstentions. We're moving on to an entity statement. Who is from the Federation for this law, for the principles of the law in first reading? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. So 22 from the Federation for, 7 from Republika Srpska for. I find the proposal for a law on indirect taxation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. 74 Thank you ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to agenda nine. The proposal to extend the amendment phase, please, and we'll put that proposal to a statement, just to see if there's a business possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10062	There's a business possibility... of a new report if necessary, but since we adopted...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10063	Just a little bit, please, I'm asking the Secretary of the House to explain. It's just business. It's gonna be okay. We have to end all business, democratically.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10064	I'll try to interpret the Rules of Procedure. Since we are in the first reading, so we have accepted and ended the law in the first reading, so there was a real possibility to submit a new report within 15 days, and I think it is quite enough for the House to leave one real deadline, to submit amendments and submit a new report only in the second part of the amendment of the law. It means that the competent Commission continues to work, to set a deadline for amendments and to submit a new report on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10065	Wait a minute, here's the conclusion. Please kindly hear the interpretation of the Secretary of the House, you heard the request, which conclusion, which deadline is given to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10066	Seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10067	So how much to give to the Commission, 7 days, a new deadline to the Commission 7 days. Who's in favour of the Commission getting a new seven-day deadline? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I therefore find that the Commission has received a 7-day deadline for new amendments to this law. I'm only asking for a new report, so I'm asking the MPs to understand that it's seven days. I ask the Commission not to take it seriously after the session to re-interpret them that they were tired and that, therefore, please, we take it seriously and that we understand that we have a warning simply that this law within a time-limit, so we must complete the procedure under this law. 75 Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for moving to the Club's motion to point 9. Ad. 9. Proposal for a resolution of the SNSD Members' Club You have therefore received today the motion for a resolution submitted by the SNSD MEPs' Club. I'm opening a debate. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija called for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10068	Mr. Chairman, given that this is a matter that is very delicate and we need to get to one of the very quality texts of the resolution, and given the fact that we are going to move very quickly on one break that will end in reasonable time, but yet there are 7-8 more points of the agenda ahead of us. My proposal, Mr. Chairman, given that we have made a decision on the continuing session to now suspend the session of the Parliamentary Assembly and to continue whether on Monday or Tuesday and to ask the Foreign Minister and the Presidency to show themselves about this and to present us on this agenda point, to bring us a platform that would introduce us to our delicacy of this situation, to come as much as possible in a balanced and refined resolution that would contain our commitment that we are a European and not just an American country.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10069	I thank the Dokrot Lagumdžija. Please just a little bit you'll all get the word. I think this is a good suggestion, I just need to tell you that we have dates covered on Monday and Tuesday. I would ask if we could continue on Wednesday, now if that's the solution that we all support, so we're not opening a debate today. I think this is a good proposal to break up at the 9th point of the agenda, and continue the session at 10:00 a.m. Who's in favor of this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10070	Sead Palavrić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10071	Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić. Just a little bit please let us just solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10072	I ask that we only get a little time before we interrupt, because, according to Article 121(2) of the motion resolution, the motion resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the home decides that it is necessary to consider it previously. I accept all Mr. Lagumdžija's argument. However, I think it is necessary for this House 76 to decide and that our Foreign Affairs Committee is considering this proposal and that we decide on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10073	Please, we have to do this first because this is a part of the agenda, so let's see if there's any need. So we didn't come to that agenda point at all. So please, we're not interrupting the 9th point of the agenda. We're starting on Wednesday. If the debate shows that both the Commission and the Commission will decide. But we haven't opened a debate on this point, so I'm interrupting. Please, who's in favor of accepting Dr. Lagumdžija's proposal? We'll continue the session at 10:00 on Wednesday. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for continuing the session at 10:00 Wednesday. End of session at 4:25. I suggest we get started on the 22nd session. I would like to inform you that the session is attended by 27 MPs. So we can make full decisions and make decisions. Ibrahim Đedović, Irina Đurković, Mirsad Ćeman and Dr. Petar Kunić. The others have not announced their absence, so the other MPs are expected to arrive at this session. As you know, we broke up the session at the 9th point of the agenda. For a reminder, I'll read the agenda points that we have left to continue the session. 1. Consideration of the motion for a resolution, proposed by the SNSD Club, 2. Proposal for a conclusion on information from the Council of Ministers regarding the initiative and activities so far in the construction of the V-c highway, 3. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act, 4. Conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level, 5. Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level, 6. Giving consent to ratification of two international agreements and 7. Report by the Commission of Investigation on the so-called The state coup case. So we broke up the session at the 9th point of the agenda, and that's Ad. Nine. Proposal for a resolution of the SNSD Parliamentary Club You have received a motion for a resolution submitted by the SNSD Parliament Club and I am opening a debate on the proposal for this resolution. 78 Who's answering for a word? The word is from the vice-president, Mr. Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10075	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10076	May I have your attention and patience, please? May I have your attention, Mr. Jusufović? If she needs a break, ask for a break, but let's listen to a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10077	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, ministers, so we have before us a resolution of the Club of SNSD which have submitted on the initiative on the continued presence or presence of US units within the framework of SFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the working title of the Resolution. I would like to inform you that we within the Commission on Foreign Affairs in the context of the possibilities of time and others have considered the text of this resolution and come to certain conclusions that, I think it would be good for the House to accept that in some way we would have a quality relationship on this issue at home. The first is an extremely significant and complex one for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the Commission's assessment, this issue cannot be considered beyond the overall context of the current foreign political position of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its external political priorities. And we know what are the priorities that, of course, are primarily on meeting the conditions and feasibility study to make Bosnia and Herzegovina a credible partner in the EU for the stabilisation and accession process, and then to submit an official bid for accession. Then the conditions Bosnia and Herzegovina should meet hope by the end of the year to enter with a partnership for peace. Third, we believe that at this point there is a balanced relationship between both the US and the EU when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this balanced relationship that does not break in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be maintained and that there is no need for us to disturb one such overall position in Bosnia and Herzegovina by issuing certain issues from this context. I remind you that in a conversation these days that we have had with the very responsible representatives of the US administration, we have received assurances of the further readiness of the United States to continue its economic, military, political and any other assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily in the further stabilisation of the entire region, and where Bosnia and Herzegovina is treated as one of the most significant segments, but we are also clearly told that the most serious part of NATO's structure and negotiations between the EU and the United States are conducting talks on the transformation of the existing military mission and peacekeeping missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that transformation, therefore, nobody wants an ad hoc over their knees, neither the United States nor the EU, and it is good that these talks continue, whether in one constructive tone where we will make our contribution by not disrupting both external political priorities and this relationship positive with the US and the EU. 79 For this reason, we believe that these issues should simply not be considered in this form, nor run in any way by party, because these issues should be subject to political consensus within Parliament and where no party should claim to seek political points or spaces. I'm not saying that they are, that I wouldn't be misunderstood here, absolutely not saying that's the intention, but it should be an approach. And we believe that, as part of the decisions made by the newest Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency as a state body that has been set up for foreign policy management also requires a kind, I would say a slight check in Parliament. And I'll remind you this is an offer on U.S. military bases in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then sending our units into Iraq as part of the engage of multilateral units and some of the things that require and demand gentlemen's responsibility to this home and the entire Parliament because we, we have such a supervisory function in, in accordance with the Constitution, to express our position on all matters. And our proposal is therefore that we would not even re-evaluate the final phase when there may be an answer to whether we are at all able to get a positive answer about the feasibility study. And that's these days you know, gentlemen. We also have important relations with the EU so that this issue goes into a committee debate and that quality participation of the members of the Presidency and the foreign ministry is ensured and that the topic of discussion of this house is held on these issues within a reasonable period of 10 or 15 days. I think it would be a constructive conclusion where the resolution would give rise to such a debate, and where this home would not enter into an ad hoc debate on very important issues, but would show one balanced and responsible relationship. I think that's how the commission opened and channeled these important issues and that we should all make a contribution to it. I will remind you, therefore, that this transformation of the peacekeeping forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is announced by the end of next year and which is most likely meant not to be done ad hoc, but under NATO's cap and connected to all its structures with the opening of NATO's office in Sarajevo, and even whose head would probably be Americans. So this whole one context requires really one responsible approach. Secondly, I will make only one comment on the first item of this resolution, within the Commission it is unanimously said that we cannot accept this assessment, that the key to peace and stability of these areas is the survival of the military forces, and so were the United States. The key, of course, is here in the institutions, the citizens and the editing of this country as a democratic and stable country, of course with partnership and with the United States, but that way we should set things up eight years after Dejton, things should be brought back here to us, to our responsibility and to our willingness to ensure that peace, not to call on others to ensure that this peace continues to provide for us. So that was the Commission's proposal, if any debate is opened, I reserve the right to make personal views known to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10078	I thank Mr. Martin Raguž. Ambassador Sead Palavrić came to the floor. Here you go. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10079	Dear colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, I would like to remind us of the position of Article 121. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this House under which the proposed resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides it is necessary to consider the commission first. Let me state my position and say that I have the fat reasons why I think this motion for a resolution should be considered by the least competent committee, and therefore I suggest that we make it clear that we are not considering today's resolution, the motion for a resolution, but that we should decide that we need to declare that this proposal needs to go to the commission. I will only support the argument that it is necessary for the proposal to go to the commission to say that at first sight it is already evident that the proposal is one-sided, so it only observes the United States, observes neither the EU nor the NATO Pact, that it does not respect the fact that NATO's presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been accepted in the Dayton Agreement. So these are issues that must be raised and that a broad debate, as already said at least between the foreign ministry, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I would say both homes of this parliamentary assembly. And the specific qualifications set out in the motion for a resolution are simply incorrect. They just don't stand, least of all. And that's why I'm not going into the essence right now. I suggest we don't have a debate, but I'm just making an argument that should serve us as a reason to refer this to the committee in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10080	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10081	The speaker, Mr. Špirić, answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10082	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, the intention of the SNSD when it submitted this resolution to the Representative Council of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament was not political. It was therefore an honest intention to discuss serious matters in the most serious way the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Representative Council. It's not the SNSD's goal to make this a personal resolution. Our goal is for this to be a resolution of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, because it is the only way it can have power. I wish that in today's debate MPs would speak personally so that they do not agree in the resolution and offer better solutions to get to the resolution. It's the least important who's in charge of the resolution. So we don't mind having a discussion today, hearing a series of useful suggestions. We don't mind 81 hearing a series of useful suggestions. We don't mind that this resolution goes into the commission phase, so the commission is considering this resolution to come up with a good resolution. But it is best that Parliament conducts a debate so as not to create in the public a vision of serious matters, that we do not have statements concerning the conduct of members of the Presidency when it comes to foreign policy when it comes to the responsibility of the Presidency, or, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So, I don't mind having a debate on this resolution today, and that after this debate, this debate will help the committee, the committee responsible, to come up with the text of a resolution that we will all accept and as much agreement as possible on this resolution. And so I would pray that we do not go critically towards this resolution, but that we offer better solutions that we will all preferably accept to improve the text of the resolution. But these are issues on which the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina must want the view of the lovely Parliament. I have a feeling that here the main problem is that the resolution was filed by the SNSD. And that's not good for resolution. Please, we are prepared to discuss everything and defend our views, but we are pleased to hear better solutions today that we are ready to accept in the resolution. So here there's an absolutely open SNSD position that anything that improves the text, which explains it, which expresses the state's attitude to be embedded in the resolution. And we're not running away from having the committee in charge plead when it comes to this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10083	I thank Mr. Chairman. Mr. Novaković answered the words, so Belkić and Gligorić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10084	Madam Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, of course, should be analysed and seriously addressed at the sessions of this House. And in any case, one of the very serious questions is the question that deals with this resolution. But I don't think she's handling it seriously enough. And he wouldn't get into the motives of this resolution. What was she put up with when she was put up with it? How quickly it is written or written in haste to steal some of the illogical things in the text itself, and to question all this seriousness. And just to get her in full seriousness, not just a resolution, but all of this problem, which is partly made by this resolution, I'm joining the motion to refer this resolution to the commission. So let us reach a conclusion today, but not on the commission that the commission gives its position in terms of which it has given, but on the committee to complete the resolution, so to complete this resolution and such, of course, with the agreement of the motions of the resolution and to offer such an offer to this House for adoption. If we accept such an advance, and I suggest we vote first, so if we accept it, of course, then the debate today would not be about this resolution, otherwise we enter into a debate with the possible conclusion again that it is going to the commission and 82 I think it is a more rational solution to vote first, and only then if we do not vote to open the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10085	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Belkić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10086	Dear colleagues and colleagues are my cause, the reason we went out was to try to get back to what Mr. Raguž was talking about. So our commission has been reacting practically before the start of the session, considering this resolution, and I think those arguments that Mr Raguž made in my opinion say that it would be good for us to conclude today that we put this resolution into a committee phase, by insisting that it would be included absolutely in the consultation process, namely the Presidency and the Foreign Ministry, because it is simply a foreign policy for which the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is extremely important, I mean competent and inescapable before adopting a statement on such an important matter. So anyway, here's the debate, Mr. Špirić, so people have already expressed their views here, but I think it would be better if we just made it clear today that the commission officially implements the appropriate procedure with the involvement of the Presidency and the Foreign Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10087	I thank Mr. Belkić. Of course, we'll put these suggestions to a statement. There's been reports of debates. If most people support this position, I don't mind, it's important that we have initiated through this resolution important things for this country. So I'm asking the debaters if they're giving up the discussion that we're not leading. The minister asked for a word. So they'll all get the word. It's not a problem. So who wants to give up, who won't. I respect Mr. Secretary, he'll get his first word to speak. It's no problem, but if we can, then we can't open up any further discussions. The aim of the resolution was to discuss matters of importance and to come up with a common text. And we have achieved this goal gentlemen on behalf of the SNSD Club as you can see. But we do care about getting a good word of resolution. We do not plegate that we can do it ourselves but we all do it together, and therefore we respect the Commission's principle of going into the commission phase to declare both the Presidency and the Foreign Ministry and perhaps to expand the content of this resolution. Okay. Thank you very much. The word was answered by the minister, Mr. Dr. Mladen Ivanić. Here you go. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10088	Dear MPs, just a few notes on the subject contained in the resolution. I first think it would be very good to make one item of the agenda on the long-term presence of SFOR here, but also on some forms of co-operation with NATO in general. Because I think lately in our public too much controversy has opened up to this occasion and I'd say a slightly uncoordinated step, let's say some kind of offer that we haven't all prepared well. That is why I think the proposal to discuss this through the Commission and then to Parliament is extremely meaningful and beneficial for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The foreign ministry's position is that after 63,000 SFOR troops, as many as were at the beginning of today, SFOR should remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for one more time, that it may be a smaller number, but the foreign ministry's position to wish and ask for NATO countries to agree on the presence of US troops in the framework and the new contingent. That's our point of view clear. It is constantly presented to all participants in these talks, and I would say that this is not so urgent right now, because a decision on the future of SFOR on our information will not be made until at least mid-2004. So we have time to express in a correct way what the position of this country is, and not just wait for us to be told to be the object of someone's action, but to express our views. But that can be done, I'd say working in a normal atmosphere in which we can really come up with common views. However, I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy position needs to clarify some of the things that have recently come up with which we have problems. There have been plenty of offers to participate in the peace troupes. Neither the basic conditions for entry into the peace forces nor the legal basis for our action have been resolved. There were also discussions about bases, and objectively, there was no formal legal or other point of view at all. That is why it warns us that such things, in order not to bring the country into an awkward position, should be approached very carefully, thoroughly and in a serious way. And therefore, if I have the right to suggest to Parliament, I think that there was one broad debate on these topics of extremely good, I think it would be useful and I think it would give a framework that would give Bosnia and Herzegovina a significant role when it is decided on. But I don't think there are any urgent reasons and conditions for bringing something overnight. There's really no such thing as a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10089	I thank Minister Ivanic for his helpful suggestions. It is not a problem Parliament will organise a serious debate. It would be good for the MIP and the Bureau to prepare therefore information that could serve Parliament for a valid 84 debate. Here we accept, it's not urgent, but here's my conclusion that these materials are being prepared as a basis for a good parliamentary debate. In any case, it is a useful suggestion and I hope that all parliamentarians, i.e. this Parliament, accepts it. Thank you very much. As far as I can see, he's not giving up any further than the debate, and if I'm asking. Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Avdić answered the word. But, please, since we already have a sense of constructiveness and we have found a solution to stick to that solution to give time to the commission to consult everyone we need and to get a more contentable resolution that will therefore be the product of this Parliament's common position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10090	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I join those who think that today should actually take this initiative as one starting basis to be developed means in the commission, the Foreign Ministry and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and finally at the House of Representatives. I think Mr. Raguž gave all the comprehensive reasons why it was necessary, as well as others who had become involved on the subject. I just want to say that the SNSD Club's initiative is actually a starting point and it should be understood as something that, in the further discussion, may well be important to change in order for it to be comprehensive. It might be good for MPs to accept the fact, or to get used to when the proposal comes, no matter where it comes from, whether it's a position or whether it's an opposition. If this proposal is constructive has a good intention, then it should not be criticised with the ultimate political intentions, but simply accept it as a good manner in Parliament and thus build on everything that it proposes whether it is a position I say or an opposition. At the same time, I think it would be a good idea for us to say that the commission is working. And I advocate that more should be put into office by Parliament's committees in order for them to spend more time, I call them small parliaments, and then, in fact, when we find ourselves in the assembly this way, that this work is certainly more constructive and that we do not spend much time on what we can in a working and peaceful process do certainly commissions. So I'm saying that today we're ending maybe this debate and we're going in that direction where you're all really speaking constructively on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10091	Thank you, Dr. President. Gligor. The word was answered by Dr. Sead Avdić, Mr. Križanović is reporting. If I may ask that. 85 kolega Džaferović gave up the discussion. I thank this constructive contribution. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10092	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, a country such as Bosnia and Herzegovina in this difficult state of economic and social, and in part and politically must be managed in a systematic manner. And Mr Ivanić, the foreign minister, said quite well. So the foreign policy strategy must be run in one system way, in a whole way. One question cannot be taken from the foreign policy mosaics. Last time we proposed at the first part of this session, I had the opportunity, so as much as the honor on behalf of the group of MPs to propose a thematic session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to discuss the strategy of relations with the international community. As part of this, NATO and all other foreign policy issues. That is why I ask Mr. Chairman of the House of Representatives to take the most seriously in the initiative and simply in the context of this welcome SNSD initiative, it is no problem at all, so we should try to think about Bosnia and Herzegovina's attitude towards the international community and NATO. The latest events warn that there is simply a lot of politicism and a lot of hasty in the reactions of both the Presidency and everything else. You can't just do that, we'll raise troops in Iraq, then we'll just go to Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So what's the foreign policy strategy, I'm asking you? Does anyone have any right outside this House simply so to articulate simple foreign policy issues, respecting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, normally, how not, the Presidency etc? But we're objectively warning, so I'm potential again. Prepare the thematic session of both homes with this agenda point and the simple component of this agenda item will be and simply this SNSD resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10093	Thank you, Dr. President. Avdić'm going to go over the motions. We'll make sure when we get the materials ready whether we have or not. We'll decide if it's going to be a thematic session. I don't mind in college either to be thematic with any significant topics. Who's next to the word? Mr. Križanović. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10094	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would like first to say that I believe that the motion for a resolution that came from the SNSD has shown the need to discuss this issue seriously. And if it were just for the US to stay within SFOR in the Peace Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then surely this resolution would be as it is, except for that first stance where the need and role of America are a little too strong, it could remain. However, recent events imply a much broader aspect of this resolution. And for this reason, if I were not longer, I would join these proposals that go in the sense of preparing one session of the House, but that without the pretense to say that I am finally formulating this item of the agenda – the current foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the context of our accession efforts, designing Association Studies, that is, the Association Agreement and, of course, the further status of SFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10095	I thank Mr. Križanović. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right that all those who say that the events and discussions that take place outside this House have in themselves expanded the need for a more comprehensive resolution. In this regard, I am making it clear that this resolution is going to the committee responsible, and that all possible consultations are being carried out in the committee responsible in order to bring a resolution before Parliament. So let this resolution be as an initial basis for this Parliament to come to the good content of the resolution that we will all support. Who's in favour of that conclusion? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I therefore conclude that, with one abstention, we have adopted this conclusion by Parliament. I therefore realize, ladies and gentlemen, that the motion for this resolution has hit the goal and goal and it has been that all state institutions are doing the work that belongs to them under the Constitution and the laws of this state. 87 We move to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad. Ten. The proposal for a conclusion on information from the Council of Ministers regarding the initiative and the activities so far in the construction of the V-c highway In order to remind me that, at the conclusion of the 20th session of the House, we have commissioned the Commission for Transport and Communications to discuss the information of the Council of Ministers on Initiatives and Activities at the construction of Corridor V-c and the proposed conclusions of Members and Clubs of MPs to draw up a proposal for conclusions which the House will consider, adopt and forward to the Council of Ministers and Resor Ministry. The Commission submitted the proposal for a conclusion on 30 October and they were immediately forwarded to the MPs. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Who answers the word. First Mr. Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10096	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Transport and Communications Commission held a session on 28 October on the basis of the conclusions of this House, and given the conclusion of this House and the stenogram from the 20th session and on all the proposed conclusions and by the Council of Ministers of the individual clubs of Members and MPs individually, it proposed to this House of Conclusions which you have received. I would not read them, I would just say that if we had the means at our disposal and conclusions of the Council of Ministers and Clubs of the Party for BiH MPs, also individual MPs Mladen Potočnik, Filip Andrić, Mr Tihomir Gligorić and Mr Mišić Nenad. On the basis of the meaning of all these and the stenograms and individually means a discussion of the MPs and these conclusions, I say the Commission has drawn up the proposed conclusions. I would also like to say that Mr Dokić, the committee's meeting was attended as the minister in charge. I can also tell you that we are real, and when Mr Dokić left, then we are individually, so at the Commission's session we have reached these conclusions at your disposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10097	I thank Mr Jovanović, who spoke as chairman of the competent Commission for Transport and Communications. Who's next to the word? Mr. Zorić. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10098	Mr. Chairman, I welcome you and all present. This is one of the few materials I have for today's session, and I object to the services as to why I don't get the materials, and the proof that, I don't know, I didn't doubt today that it wasn't intentional, because today I saw that everyone was welcomed by this yellow envelope on the table except me. There was just no yellow envelope in front of me. I just couldn't discuss the resolution because I didn't get it. I have this material, so I will say that under conclusion number 6 should write to me the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, not the Parliamentary Assembly, and I am also not a member of the Commission, but I do not know what this 4th row means in conclusion – as well as other available options. I think it means a lot to those addressed and that there are some intentions, but it would have been much nicer for me if the Commission had made that clear or that it had put a point behind the words for the award of concession.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10099	I would like to thank Mr. Vinko Zorić, the honourable MP. I think that the remarks are in place and should be written instead of the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives, because we can make decisions based on the House of Representatives, I apologize if the materials are not distributed to the MPs we will check in the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly. There's no reason not to go all the same material. I would ask the MPs to look at the materials in their archives. Some are delivered, therefore, succesively, unrelated to Parliament's sessions. It is possible that this resolution did not come because it was divided at the last session when Mr Zorić did not attend the session. But that's no reason not to be met by that resolution when it comes to this session. Okay. We figured out the suggestion, so it's not the College, we'll see that it's not happening. There have been such objections before and they are not malicious and they are not intended to believe. I understand sometimes the Skekretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, there are few people, and there is much work to be done, and yet there is no need to worry about the MPs, they should be informed in time and get the materials. We'll take care of it. I accept that observation and suggestion absolutely as a friend. Mr. Potočnik Mladen came to the floor. Here you go. I think you got those conclusions back in the last session. They were sent to the post office. I signed a memo that goes to all MPs. So I'm asking you to look at the materials you're getting for the sessions in your archives. All conclusions had to be shared with the MPs. I'm sorry if you didn't win, but you didn't find that conclusion. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of this conclusion. 89 I am to adopt this suggestion when it comes to where the Parliamentary Assembly should stand as a House of Representatives, because it is the only way that it can be a valid conclusion. There is Mr. Vinko Zorić absolutely right. So who is it to adopt these conclusions along with this suggestion and the correction of Mr Zorić? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have unanimously accepted the conclusions regarding the proposal for a conclusion on the Council of Ministers' information on initiatives and activities so far in the construction of the Corridor V-c highway. Thank you. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 11. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the same text of the BiH Air Force Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly in different texts. In order to reach an agreement in the same text, three members from the House of Representatives should be appointed to the Joint Commission of both homes. The extended college agreed on a proposal to elect MPs in the Joint Commission, - Mr Filip Andrić, Seada Palavrić and Miloš Jovanović. Namely, it was a proposal to be Mr. Novaković, but since Jovanović is the chairman of this commission to understand the problem, we are therefore a proposal to be instead of Novaković, only for these reasons, Mr. Miloš Jovanović. I hope Momo agrees. Although this was the conclusion of an extended college, that is, for the committee of reconciliation. It's just a change instead of Novaković, Mr. Jovanović. Do we agree with this proposal? Who is it to adopt the composition of the Commission, so Filip Andrić, Seada Palavrić, Miloš Jovanović? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I agree, ladies and gentlemen, that we have unanimously adopted the proposal for members of the Commission to agree on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act to be Filip Andrić, Seada Palavrić and Miloš Jovanović. Thank you. 90 We move to the 12th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 12. The conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level You are ladies and gentlemen MPs have received a proposal for conclusions on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The text of the proposals for conclusions you received was adopted at the House of Peoples at the 13th session of October 29th this year. So I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt a conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted a conclusion on the establishment of a Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work within the 12th point. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 13. The decision to elect members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of BiH The House of Representatives should appoint 6 members in this joint commission. It is a joint committee in which six members name both homes. So the House of Peoples 6 members and the House of Representatives 6 members. In that sense, I would like to inform you that on behalf of the College we have proposed the following members: - Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Seada Palavrić, Adem Huskić, Momčilo Novaković, Mirko Blagojević and the sixth from the Croatian people, please propose. I'd like the HDZ to propose. HDZ - the demochrated is. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10100	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I propose to Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10101	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is to be in this commission on behalf of the House of Representatives - Šefik Džaferović, Seada Palavrić, Adem Huskić, Momčilo Novaković, Mirko Blagojević and Mr Martin Raguž. Any new suggestions? There isn't. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it to adopt this six-member commission in the group I've listed? Please count, raise your cards because not everyone is voting. I believe they will be against and restrained. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen of the 29 MPs present voted 23 against, there were no abstentions. I therefore konstatuj that we have adopted the composition of this committee, so that we have adopted the Commission in the composition – Šefik Džaferović, Seada Palavrić, Adem Huskić, Momčilo Novaković, Mirko Blagojević and Martin Raguž. So we ended up working on the 13th point of the agenda. We're moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to the 14th item of the agenda. It's Ad. 14. Giving consent to ratification under a) International Convention on Air Safety Cooperation since 13 December 1960, with amendments from 6 July 1970. The year, November 21st, '78. The year, February 12, '81. and July 27, '97. the year and the Protocol of 8 October 2003 on the accession of the EC Eurocontrols Are we going to agreement by agreement or by second is b) the credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EZ Ladies and gentlemen you have received these agreements. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Are we going to make a statement about both agreements after there was no debate? 92 So who is it to ratify these agreements by the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we have unanimously ratified these two international agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work on the 14th wheel. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad. 15. Report by the Commission of Investigation on the so-called You know the proposal was for this session to be closed to the press. In that sense, we're taking a short break, for as long as it takes 5-10 minutes to prepare for this part of the agenda. Wait a minute, don't sit down. So you don't think there's a break. Is anyone answering for a word? This is Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go. Let's see if we can take a break. Here's not a Nijaz break. Dr. Crescent. Here you go, you Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10102	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, this item of the agenda is announced by the chairman, I apologize, named as the item of the agenda to be held without public presence. The nature of this item of the agenda and its purpose and the reason it is being discussed is exactly the opposite of the principle proposed here that this part of the House be held without public presence. That's why Mr. Chairman would like us not to take a break, but to agree here why, why should this item of the agenda be without public presence? The more what Dom concluded and what was the intensity of the Commission was just giving the full truth about this, because especially after we saw the materials that were shared with us, it can be seen that there is also a reason for the public to be informed about this. I would therefore ask that we make a fine agreement to go normally with the session, because otherwise this point does not lose sense in this way, but is completely pushing us in the opposite direction of what we wanted to achieve here, which is that the truth about all of this is presented to the public in full scope. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10103	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. Mr. Gligorić answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10104	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest it would be a good idea for us to continue our work, and for that session to be public at the same time. Why? What I got in the material that you promised us to return, which is not controversial and what I learned from the press in the meantime, believe me, I got less. The press even had a transcript of conversations between some, which I didn't get in the material. Therefore, if we are to come to the final truth about this case, I think we should accept the fact and speak publicly in front of the public and finally reach a proper conclusion. So I stand for openness in front of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10105	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Ladies and gentlemen, of course all possibilities Parliament has to make a decision when it wants to open or close a session. It's a matter of MPs and Parliament. In that sense, I'm giving it 10 minutes to see if the session will be open to the public or not. So a 10-minute break for the club presidents to agree. Please, if you'll take 10 minutes to hold on to the timing. [[PAUZA]] Who wants a break for half an hour or an hour? He'll get a break. But I ask the MPs who have come, the only reason we have called to work, to attend the session. There's no need for the Service to collect MPs in the hallway to maintain the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore a proposal to continue or wait for the MPs who are here, but they will not enter or enter. We're moving on. Ladies and gentlemen, in a conversation with the presidents of most clubs, I was under the impression that most of the clubs are in order not to exclude the public from the work of this session, that we have therefore an open session with the note of the College and my own personal attention to the materials that you received in the envelope and that every MP in the discussion must take care of what is called "strict pov." until the competent authorities remove that mark, and that says more than a conclusion. And we'll, please, get everything, let's have a session. You all know that. 94 So we're going to make it clear whether or not we're going to run an open rap sheet so the public doesn't get shut down from this session. Who's in favour of having a session run, being open to the public? Would you like to make a statement? Who's in favour of having the session open to the public? You'll discuss it. Please. Who's up for it? Please pick up the charts. Who's against it? Are there any others who can handle it? With one vote abstention, two, we realized that the session was open to the public. I'd like to speak to Dr. The liar and indeed the messengers to be present in the O.R. when we count and we're at the edge of the quorum. So we made a decision to open the session to the public. I ask the MPs to keep an eye on the comments given by the College in their discussions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received today's report from the Commission of Investigation on the so-called The state coup case. In the report, you received material delivered to the investigation committee from the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, bearing the title of Information at the request of the Research Commission. In addition to that information, the Ministry of Security provided a series of contributions from the federal authorities. As you've seen, the material bears the designation "strictly confidential", "the official secret". For these reasons, I have also made a note of keeping an eye on the debate. I'm opening a hearing on the investigation committee report. Here you go. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10106	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I will not hold a debate on this report because I do not know how to find a limit between what is classified and what is not, or what I may say here, and what I must not say since the promoter has placed "strictly pom".". Now I really don't know what's out there and who's by what criteria I should say what's not, and what's "strict." and what I can say and what I can't. For this reason, I was abstained from voting in the vote, so on this proposal, and I am surprised at the position of this House expressed by the vote. Secondly, I am interested in asking the chairman whether we are introducing a new practice of consulting with club presidents individually or keeping the practice that has been so far to the chair, or the College with club presidents sitting down and agreeing. If the new practice of talking in the halls is about the views of the agenda, then I ask 95 to say so and to make it public that it is a new way of working. No one consulted me about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10107	I thank Mr. Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw attention to some things first. Those who do not have the strength and do not know the limits shall stick to their own strengths and their own borders. There are those who, when other things are found, find strength and break the limits. I am for this parliament to work legally. We have made clear by the vote what We will and will not. I opened the debate against the commission's report. Mr. Novaković made his point and I respect him. But I'm opening a debate and I'm asking you not to read the college lesson. So invited club chairman. You saw how unanimous the atmosphere was. The fact that Momčilo Novaković does not know how to set the border should not be a problem, or knows this parliament. Or anyone else, Nikola Špirić. So I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Here you go. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10108	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the material itself is concerned, I have already said that it is more said in the press than in the material that we have received as MPs. At the same time when someone is talking about the boundary between what they have to say and whatnot, in the sense of banning materials that are encrypted by "strict pom"."I can say and there are no special things there, and believe me as a man wouldn't have occurred to me, it's a thing even from culture or distaste, if someone were to present the phone numbers of some people who were there in the material said. It's a matter of a common culture that you can't give until you ask a friend or anyone to give him a phone number. The press itself has already said a lot, it has published certain transcripts of the conversation between us, which we have not received as MPs. And it comes down to what I said last time that actually security services, national security, call them whatever you want are actually services that work for political parties, for national parties, for SDA, HDZ and SDS. And that data and information that they process brings to them, and it's not national security, it's not the service that needs to deal with the state issue, it's the function of maintaining national parties, and it's done these 13 last years. It is brought in private, brought into cabinets and thus they are in fact breaking exactly the law that needs to and prescribed that information should be delivered to the relevant competent addresses of the system institutions. Now I can ask as an MP, I can still think about this, and that's 96.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10109	Wait a minute, let your colleague finish. You'll all get a chance to say what you think. What are you nervous about? What? A colleague speaks, please. You'll all get a chance to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10110	Let's say I asked Mr. Beriz Belkić. The BiH party is the government. Did he get the information "strictly pov." of the security of any service in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I believe it isn't. But I also believe that Mrs. Seada Palavrić got it in front of the SDA Club. Now you're in power. But how do you exercise that authority? It is brought to someone, but to the hard national parties and that the service is to preserve them in power. Because if it says that the only problem is that the opposition is seeking emergency or early elections and that it should be a coup and collapse, the institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina is attributed to Dr. Lagumdžija and what they say is so-called. The coup group, then it's the legitimate right of the opposition and I can tell you by nightfall here that I want an early and early election at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it necessary now that someone there in the block lip to write me down, then send some political leaders, national parties and say – Mr Gligorić also joined, and he wants to bring down the state institution. So, at the same time as we talk about keeping that state secret, you remind me of ONO and DSZ's opt-out defense and social self-defense, when every village had a metal register and they had "strict pov." materials and eventually what happened. So they didn't let the people read how to save themselves, defend themselves, and we failed and destroyed a beautiful country called Yugoslavia. Now it's the same, but in other ways it's "strictly pov." You bring it. In fact, you are jeopardizing the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina system. It is a coup against the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina system, the way security services work in Bosnia and Herzegovina for parties, not the state. I am now accusing you and the national security and services that have thus become a function of politics. And that's why I'm asking you to think about it. From the material we've received, it's quite clear that the prosecutor says there's no "state impact" element. I suggest that Parliament, for its part, has the strength to say that there were no elements of the "state impact", that the qualifications that we have received absolutely do not stand and that Mr Lagumdžija, or these people who have called here should be free of any such responsibility because it is the attitude and the prosecutor. At the same time, a commission that already exists should be able to expand it and that commission should request the way security services work in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there are many questions from that material in terms of who is responsible, who is the client, to whom it has been supplied and for what purposes. 97 Therefore, I think that we should get serious after all, which is to be politically accused, while at the same time having information from some security service that should actually just be a guarantee of assaulting political inexplicables and imagine it is spreading practically to every citizen who is politically thinking and to every journalist who has called for no reason for this speaker here. What kind of country are we in? Is this a modern and democratic state? Is that what you from the national parties say you're reformists? Is this the state where a citizen, politician, opposition and journalist should be afraid? It's this strong message under the "strictly confidential" that you want to hide from the eyes of the public. I don't want to be a part of that story. There's no reason to hide anything in this country. We are such security services that have been listening to people in cafes, what they're saying, what they drink and who they're talking about cost and what they're doing now. And you have to admit that anyone who went public and accused Mr. Lagumdžija should tell him on what grounds. If someone came out to say, here's now in this case Mrs. Sead Palavrić, what kind of information did she have to say that she was, that she was preparing a "state coup". Or maybe it was some bad dream? If it's a bad dream, I apologize to you, you had a bad dream, and then you apologized to the press. But if it's based on facts, and we've seen it in "strict pov." that these are no facts and are without reason accused of people, then it is a policy behind which interests are being held in power, and in this case a strong political party such as the SDP in Bosnia and Herzegovina is accused of being burdened with power, not choosing the means and thus liberating an unpleasant political opponent, who, of course, grows in the eyes of his own public. Therefore, I suggest that based on the material we have obtained, it can be sure that the findings do not stand when it comes to "state coup". Mr Lagudmžij and the so-called The group, as they call it, has absolutely nothing proven that they intended to do anything about it. To ask for responsibility from MPs who went public with information without having had any facts before, because this is also disabling practically from the prosecutor. And if a commission were passed to actually work on this second part, those who ordered, who were responsible and who produced this state of mistrust in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know you're a little bit of a national party nervous. Power lasted long, people learned to be obedient. Those in the police especially in these security services, secret services, have been providing political information throughout one period that was even very difficult and fatal in making certain political decisions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the kind of practice that needs to be stopped. It is necessary to continue on the basis of the law and to reform within police services and thus try to regulate a country, not to call it the Bosnia and Herzegovina police state. And this is what I end up with. In this way, as you've done, as you've put into office of this service, I believe the Ministry of Security is not involved at all. I believe that I cannot get support in the future for my work, and until this changes today Bosnia and 98 Herzegovina in the way that the national parties want it is a police state in which citizens cannot feel safe.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10111	I thank the MP, Mr Gligorić. The replica was answered by Mrs Palavić and Mr Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10112	I'm really sorry to have to pick up the line, because I've decided not to discuss this at all today. But Mr. Gligorić's behavior really shocks me. He accuses me of what he does for this pay phone. He's taking out the flat-rate and unchecked conjecture. Let me tell you, Mr. Gligorić, that I've never seen the FOS report before, and I haven't received it either as vice president of the SDA or as head of the club, but let me tell you that you've read what it said, you'd treat the entire report of this investigation committee, so you'd see that the FOS report could have been given to whoever was authorized by the Constitution and the Federation Security Intelligence Act. So that's 15 people, I don't know who they are, but I'm sure they're from the Party for BiH, because one of them is the vice president of the Federation. So they had to get it and they got it. If the surveillance had been carried out in accordance with the Federal Security Intelligence Act and you would have seen that the commission finds that there are no criminals, that it takes an act of the prosecution under which it realizes that there is no crime in Chapter 15, but gives instructions to FOS what to do next. That's what you hear. You also hear about the Commission's proposal to take the secrecy mark off the report and get the public to know what it says. And for your information, it would be good if you really wanted to blame me, a little recollection and speak to your arguments. Mr. Lagumdžija and I had a duel that started on August 7th this year after this pay phone, and only on that subject did we have a duel. On the subject of the FOS report and bringing Mr Lagumdžija into context with the FOS report and the alleged "state strike" I have not said a word and I ask you to behave like this. Anything you say, these are serious things, it would be good if you put your arguments in. Don't come forward and say what's not true, or what's just your mere conjecture. I'm still saying, for the sake of the MPs who are my colleagues, I've never seen the FOS report before, and so I can't even comment on it. Thank you very much. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10113	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Momčilo Novaković answered the words, so Mr Gligorić answered. Can you do it, Mr. Gligorić, since it's a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10114	Dear colleagues, I did not go out to replicate Mr. Gligorić, because the replica needs serious discussion and a serious reason, and I did not find it. But I went out to replicate the chairman on his statement that I'm giving lectures here, so I'm going to read article 21. Rules of Procedure – The College shall work in an extended composition with the participation of the lecturers of each MP in the consultation on the preparation of the plenary session. In doing so, it shall decide on the mandatory points and other possible points. b) The consultations on the preparation of a possible work plan and c) of all other issues, I suppose, is a question in this group, which could affect the functioning of the House. 2. The extended college will seek to adopt decisions by consensus. If efforts to achieve such a consensus fail, decisions will be adopted by the College by consensus. Please, I didn't ask for anything but for the extended college to be held and convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not individually with club presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10115	I thank my colleague Novaković, and Mr Lagumdžija answered for his word, first Mr Gligorić and then Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10116	Ladies and gentlemen, Koleginica of Sead Palavrić, did not actually do anything, practically denied what I was saying, nor supported any claim. I'm still standing by your statements, regarding this, that they were unmeasured and that they may not have had the ultimate intention, but they certainly did not get it so well in public. You said yourself you didn't get the report, and I believe you. But at the same time you're saying that in this conclusion, well, I agree with that I'm saying that hair should have been instructed by the D.A.'s office what to do. Believe me, if you had carefully read that I was there in those services, I would be ashamed in the way that they absolutely do not know how to work, polish, incomplete, incorrect, not processed, etc. such qualifications. So believe people work in such a service and at the same time accuse someone of not being more important, that is, the question of responsibility must be imposed on these people, who have been untouchable all along, who are estimating people, as if they were psychologists, as if they were not aware of what qualifications they are, but they are people who don't know they're doing soy work and the prosecution confirmed it in those documents. What you're not talking about is how we have the capable and 100 responsible services to track at the highest level what they need to do by law, if that's what we're talking about. Of course, at this very end, I don't think you should be angry, because you haven't said anything new in terms of, as I say, contrary to your claim that this is being delivered to the competent institutions of the system. I also claim to you that it is delivered secretly, delivered to certain leaders, in the late hours of the night, and then agreed on a strategy to destroy the opposition. Here I have...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10117	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10118	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I must admit that I have long wondered whether to approach this as one, I don't know how to tell Nusic's comedy or some story, a Balkan spy, or whether to make this a comedy, to talk about this in one way, which would show how expensive this is unseriously done, to give the opportunity to show this, what we've got to say freely, what my colleague Duraković would say, one stupid structure, and then I realized that it would be too tragic, and that these are too big questions here to be opened, to joke about, to joke about, to joke on, to apologize on, to apologize on all my possible... Here you can see, by looking at this documentation that we got, that it's not just people who are at the border of medical, who I wouldn't like to use, because I'm a computer doctor, not because, but it's practically, that intelligence is through people who signed this, and so far I don't want to go into it, who was covering them and who was behind them, but that here intelligence has done such a thing, that it's such an exercise, that it's thrown under the feet of the fundamental human rights of people whose names are even mentioned here and the numbers of the phones are written without knowing who they are. All European Conventions on Human Rights and Freedoms, the BiH Constitution has been trampled in these papers, thrown under its feet on media policy, in one primitive way, which today could not be found in North Korea, until yesterday or in Iraq, the intelligence service here is playing with people's names. I'll be very specific, so I won't be abstract, but I'll talk about those things that have violated my fundamental human rights, and that's why no one has the right to where my elemental human rights are as a citizen and as an MP being violated to place a strict mark. I got out there two months ago, I don't know who, someone made an effort to get me this memo that had three pages of 1.09, which was written by the official secret and top secret, signed by the deputy director of intelligence. When I got that, I read it, and the first thing that occurred to me was that I wouldn't happen to tell anyone what I saw, because I was convinced that I was being set up. I was convinced that what I saw two months ago in an anonymous envelope that was sent to me, I thought this was someone who pushed me away from the people who did this all so I could begin to explain 101 that they were writing it and that they were telling me that I think they were jerks, because that's not true. When I got this memo a few days ago, I was thinking that what was sent to me two months ago was authentic, and here's what's going on here is that the elemental human rights of a man who's getting circumstances here is called Zlatko Lagumdžija. The intelligence service sent a letter to the prosecutor saying that by following a pensioner, they have established illegal activities, and here it says that the existence of an organised group has been established, so we are an organised group, which deals with a number of illegal activities, and here we state that the most important and dangerous activity is ours, an attempt to destabilise the current government of the Federation and the Government of BiH. This is not illegal in any democratic state in the world. It's not the real stabilisation, it's the government, and we're doing it all as the blackest and most dangerous fact that violates the law, that we want to provoke early elections. When I read this, I didn't believe this was true until I got the signing of the chairman and his two deputies, and then here it's said that this group is using no less than no more than more areas. We use the areas to do this, not the Banja Luka, the Tuzlan, the Bridge, the Sarajevo, which I do, we normally use these areas, these geographical areas, to say that this government is not doing well and that this needs to be out of the way as soon as possible. However, the areas here are completely different. It says here that one area we use is the media. Here are three media and four journalists with a name and a last name, so we use these media. It's an area. Then we use the federal MUP, even there stands for one man that they discussed his, his psychiatric findings, watch out for the psychiatric findings of a man discussing intelligence services, so that's a fundamental violation of every human right in every country on the planet, including totalitarian ones. Then it is realized that we used the area as a single canton MUP, where some people were admitted to work, the truth through the European Police and the IPTF, so we used that area and then your colleague, this could happen to anyone tomorrow. I'm accused of using an area called politics by contacting a journalist, and occasionally with a pensioner and they call me a leader. So, please, here's an MP who sits with you accused of having made a coup and writes the only thing he's done to contact a newspaper and occasionally with a pensioner and they call me a leader. Well, just when you think it's the end of all the debauchery, you see it's just a prelude to it all together. You see here that the intelligence officer was listening to UN officials, and they knew that they had no right to break the Dayton Agreement, and he boasted, wrote, signed it, and one of them accused him of having a vulgar dictionary, and the other said that he had a small salary. It all says here, it's a coup charge, and then you can see something from which, probably a teacher in elementary school would have knocked a kid down for an unsuspecting sentence, and maybe, because I don't want to fall into a psychiatric trap and say something else, some people who talked to someone are talking to someone somewhere, so somebody knows, so somebody's out of here, so somebody's out of there and they're all in one sentence and they all know each other for a long time. Look, there's a group of people accused of knowing each other for a long time. Here normally says that many officials are in conversation that we attacked them. YES, when we talked, we said that Mr. Tihić, or Mr. Čović, or Lozančić, or Terzić has some Džuvo Halilović, as 102 and many officials all three levels of government that we talked about them badly, we think they are not doing well with their work, it says here, it is a coup. We think that there are people in the Presidency and in the Government who are not doing well and then it is concluded in the end that the group was concerned with the collection of data on various natural and legal persons from the economies, economies and security. What they use for daily political purposes. I thought this was an accusation against the Director of the Statistical Institute, but this is an accusation against us, that we collect data, we read these materials, and we use all of this together. Unfortunately, this isn't the end. Unfortunately, you can see here from what the prosecutor wrote, that, by the sea of five hundred or how many pages anyone has spoken to on the phone, who knows, who has had physical contacts and conversations with, there's a lot of things here just missing the Supreme Court's approval of listening. Very interesting. He's got everything. That's what it says here. It's just missing the Supreme Court's approval. That truth intelligence says that they have it, given the quality of their information, the big question is what they have. I see Mr. Džaferović smiling. I'm very interested in whether Mr. Džaferović would like to answer me from this pay phone, as a professional, as a man who was one of the leading professionals in AIDS. Would he ever sign a letter like this? But it's a special subject. I'd really like to hear back one day, hope to hear back from me here honestly human, would you ever, as a professional, sign one of these baloney? And that's the subject, which I hope, from the opportunity that they answer. So, there's been a lot of finding here, it's been established, therefore, that intelligence has the right to do what I've stated. The prosecutor in one subtle way gives an assessment of the material and he finds that there is no organized doubt, the foundation of doubt that there is an organized group, committed any criminal act, but I want to remind you here what the prosecutor emphasizes, and it does not need to be the prosecutor that this should be emphasized, we as MPs should stress this. First, it reminds us that the Constitution of the Federation establishes the obligation to ensure the highest standards of internationally recognised rights and freedoms, in particular freedom of speech and opinions, the prohibition of any discrimination based on political and other beliefs, that freedom of association and belonging to political parties and freedoms, the enjoyment of political rights, and the direct application of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its priority over domestic laws are guaranteed. He reminds us that he is a member of 15. The law on intelligence services is prohibited, undermining, the forbidden collection of information about a person solely on the basis of his political opinion and membership in a political party, and that the service under the law is depolitised and cannot work to improve the protection or threat of the interests of any party or organisation, which is all done here contrary to that law, then reminds us that the Federal Prosecutor's Office has given us information that certain persons are employed in that office and have the status of professional consultant and those persons are given a legal basis for the collection of all data, then the prosecutor reminds us that the material under the label is strictly confidentially delivered to the hands of the highest officials of the Federation leaked to the public, which has led to the lack of media campaign against me and many others here, with the aim of visible political accreditation in the capacity of strengthening of the position of the national parties. 103 Otherwise, Mrs Palavrić is right, I want to confirm exactly what she said she only opened this debate on 7 August. He's absolutely right. I looked into my calendar. However, you opened that debate in the middle of this wiretap, from which I can only conclude that you, as they say, were online, because this listening started in 2.07 and lasted until 26.08. Everything you said on August 7th, after four weeks, it was found in this report, which I called a jerk. On this basis, a sitting conclusion can be drawn. First, that the FOS, contrary to the law and without any authority, carried out measures to control the face, over which he could not do so. Em, it's about an employee of The Hag, and you can tell here that the court order, the prosecutor, didn't have one at the hearing. It is also evident that such actions have seriously damaged the fundamental human rights and civil liberties of all persons listed in the report, everyone, privacy, freedom of opinion, freedom of speech, freedom of political association and freedom of membership of a political party. It's all disrupted here, crushed, to try to jeopardize basic freedom of information. You can tell exactly. This was not done in any of the blackest vaccines by Milošević or Tuđman, such an indignity, this is not the case. I'd also like to talk about whether that's the answer to the Algerian group for what you've been doing. So tell me, this is the answer for the Algerian group. We can talk like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10119	I would pray that he does not throw himself out of the place, that the apostle may come, so you will all have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10120	It can then be concluded that the elemental ignorance of its legal position as the responsibility of the intelligence service, which acted contrary to the law in the function of one or two ruling parties and trying to challenge the legitimate right of opposition parties to power that such parties and their leaders or members are objectively criticising, can then be determined that it was illegal to allow officials to make available and make available information to the public, which are designated as official secrecy and to give it to the media in the function of the ruling national party. From what can be concluded from the report, the impact on the legal order, system and constitutional order and its undermining could neither have been prepared by an organized group, but had been prepared and organised by the FOS or the Intelligence Service. With this, the intelligence service carried out elements of the coup, as it worked contrary to the legal powers and in a way that the country's democratic processes try to intersect in its root, which no longer looks like totalitarianism, but rather an attempt to establish a police state in its darkest form. On the basis of this, I think it is clear that FOS needs to ask for information on concrete actions in relation to the measures taken in the cancellation of those persons, which have done such illegal actions, to establish the motives of the person of 104 whose order such actions were taken, to reveal the persons who allowed the distribution of such data in public, to take all measures to be taken, to ensure that all security services, at all levels of organisational and human rights are set up, so that on their constitutional and legal role they are depolitised, that they are freed from the influence of any political party or individual, with the guarantee of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms to anyone who lives in this country and, in short case, I want to say once again that, in the sense of proposing certain conclusions, are clear that the conclusion that the European Zlatko on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedom of Human Rights and Lagumdžija and Freedom of Human Parlmentu should not be seen in this matter that this matter, but the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that this House of Parliament does not apply to the fact that the fact that the fact that this matter, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, this case, the fact, this case, this case, this case, the fact, the fact, this case, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, of the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, of the fact, I repeat once again that I am talking about the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of Republika Srpska, which has not been mentioned here, I mean all the worst, in terms of their exorcision of the commitments they made a year ago, as well as those of me, but I didn't think of calling them to make a coup. It's also clear to me that the pears and apples have been mixed up here because the president of the SDA has accused, based on this report in public of me and my political party from which I come to act. So, the end of the quote. So here you can see that the opposition accused of acting. Our problem is in the eyes of some people, obviously that we exist at all, and I think that this subject should be the subject of this commission's debate. I also believe that the Commission should expand and determine who created the false accusations that were made here? What measures should be taken to protect the country's reputation abroad and in the country and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the institutions of the system, to see who and how it has violated international conventions on human rights and freedoms and the Constitution of BiH, through the creation of such reports on this basis and not authorized to spread information, which was violated by the Constitution of guaranteed rights of individuals and institutions, the Commission should see whether and in any way they violated the laws and baselessly accused BiH citizens of organising and destroying the constitutional order by violent means. The Commission should work publicly and submit its report to this House at least once a month until it ends and, finally, I think the Commission should examine the role of the international community in this. The role of the High Representative and the international community in this whole case is absolutely embarrassing. That's my position, which I want to say here at the pay phone, because the High Representative is able to point out many completely ephermic things, and here when the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms has been violated and the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms is being trampled against the entire political party, according to the man who sits here, and each of you can do so tomorrow. Don't forget that anyone can do this if this goes down like this. And I'm gonna fight to keep this from happening to anyone. It happened to me, I have nothing to live through today and tomorrow, at some point, if my health serves or gives a rat's ass and changes the role. We need to put an end to this thing today in the right way and some political debates, I'm willing to leave them for another opportunity, but here Parliament has to be this obvious to 105 that no intelligence service has the right to create what it has created here, and let the courts do their job and colleagues Palavrić, I think fellow Members here, you are right, the prosecutor finally said that we should move on. You're absolutely right, but he said that if you're describing what's wrong here and writing what's all the nebulosis here, he said if you correct these nebuloses, so do something too big and give me. And that in no way can there be a shadow of doubt over the people mentioned here. Let the prosecutor, by all means, determine the nature of the intelligence service for anything that has to do with the violation of the constitutional order of this country by violent means, but the prosecutor here is your second conclusion of the commission, which alluds to the need to move forward is, in fact, the prosecutor's one cultural pack of intelligence, people fix what you've messed up, so if you've got something to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10121	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I would ask these suggestions and conclusions, if you have the ambition to declare Parliament to get them in a felt form. It's very difficult for me to synthesize the stakes after this speech, so I'd like to ask if they have any conclusions that I'm being delivered in writing. She answered for Mrs. Sead Palavrić's line.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10122	I have to correct some of Mr. Lagumdžija's false allegations, first of all when he says that, that I could have known from time to time that the listening was done, because I was 7 August o.g. ran this process. I'm paraphrasing, please, if we're gonna be serious people, we take a stenogram from the 7 August session, from which we'll see that Mr. Lagumdžija behind this pay phone, once at the beginning of the session attacked the ruling party, among them and the SDA and blamed them for the bombings, which were current in Sarajevo and that we were silent then. That later, he went back to Corridor Vc to discuss it, said the same thing again, and then I got up and answered him. Then, in the evening of the show "Dileme", it would be so great if we were to really deal with this, who was making false accusations, then let's take the show "Dileme" and take everything we said to Mr. Lagumdžija in the media and analyze whether or not, because things are turning around here right now. I'm to blame for what I did to Mr. Lagumdžija. The second thing I'm very sympathetic about with Mr. Lagumdžija is if he really is a victim of the Federal Intelligence Service. I want to remind him of the adoption of the FOSS Act, when we were opposition in the federal parliament and when we said that this law was not good and that it was very suitable for human rights violations and freedoms. Unfortunately, the alliance had no obedient discipline, could not gather 71 MPs and we were forced to pass that law with the alliance. Who put people in FOSS? When were they set up? If memory doesn't deceive me, since the last election, no single man could have been replaced in FOSS. As much as we have warned of this and what Mr Lagumdžija points out as intricacies is indeed the peak of intricacies, but it is not my problem, unfortunately, I cannot influence it either as a representative in this House or in any other way. I'm sorry Mr. Lagumdžija reaps what he sows himself. 106 Also, when we want to talk about false accusations and misbehavior, I would like to examine that attack on the streets of Sarajevo, I don't know perhaps any other cities that have done to the SDP Youth Forum, with those lists, which could have cost someone, as could the charges, if they weren't realistic, cost Mr Lagumdžija. So let's talk straight and let's look for a way out of this. I, I really don't think this department is working the way it should, and I think the Federal Intelligence Act is not good, it's not good for either of us, and really, what Mr. Lagumdžija is talking about could happen to either of us or, maybe, could have happened. I hope at least those times are over. But don't say by the way that it was me and me that got involved and implied that I could have known about listening. You know very well that I didn't have such a high rank in FOSS and that I don't quote and I couldn't even guess about listening in, but I didn't even have to listen, because I was responding to Mr. Lagumdžija's accusation that the ruling parties were destroying themselves by planting bombs, causing chaos in the country, which was out of their minds. Which destroys the power itself and, let's take it, really, if we want to deal with it, and no, for me these are two separate things, let's take it and don't let me defend myself. This isn't an invasion, it's not the system it was, and for everything you're accusing me of, and I see that the tendency to do it is, I ask you to step up the paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10123	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The replica was sought by Mr Lagumdžija and then by Moranjkić, then by Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10124	Very short. I just want to remind you that I told you about this pay phone that the arrival of this turcture of authorities began to create a climate of uncertainty in which, among other things, I began to remind you of the murder of the Anđelić family in Costa Rica for last Christmas, and then after that, by rebelling prisoners in Zenica, who wanted to go home, not having better conditions, and after that, by killing a young man here in Strosmayer's, for which to this day 200 people must not confirm that they saw him killed, and they saw that in the end with what happened, that even in the country created a general atmosphere of fear and hopelessness, and that was my political accusation. As for Corridor V-c, we are now coming here and we see that everyone is coming at what I asked for in August, which is that the first fissibility of the study by the state is going on and, what I did most for Mrs Palavrić, don't get me wrong, and that is that I am not the victim of such a FOSS by the law that worked, but the victim of FOSS who worked against the law, because that law was passed by your MPs and our MPs in the federal parliament that you say yourself, but what was done here was not done by law, so we were the victim, but we were born against the Constitution and the law and that's what it's all about. I agree that we need to find a way out of this honorable and put an end to this and show that we're serious people that this kind of thing that no one can get out of the civil servants, whether you or I set it up, act the opposite of the law and create these and similar things, let's call it affairs and distract ordinary people from having nothing to eat. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10125	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10126	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen fellow MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I was simply thinking whether to go out for this pay phone or not to keep all this quiet, I just can't warn and swallow. But still, I decided to go out and say a few words. I in my life, and it's not very few of those years, which is visible on my hair, I haven't seen any more unserious material, which bears a strict seal. This is a mess and a flattery of such important and high-ranking and officials and governmental authorities, which are mentioned and which are in play through these materials. This is a far larger satire than that suspicious face, which is played on our boards, and I am no one's lawyer here, nor Lagumdžijin, on the contrary, I expected the seriousness of such an extremely serious event as the seal of a coup. That, when it is said, should be the feet of every citizen, not the man who sits in Parliament, who is at the head of that country, who should be shot down. I'm disappointed with this whole material and the whole problem, which, you see, you've been pulling back on these benches for a long time, and today it's getting a kind of epilogue. If this is a state secret, which I got, then I, I really don't know what the secret is in this country. This is beyond reason and this shows general misery in this country. Any material that we as MPs get and get, at least as I sit in this passage, I claim is more secret than the one that bears the seal of this secret. Well, then I start turning around my axis. I ask that the seal be removed from this material first with strict confidentiality and that the public be informed in detail about these gulposts, because there is no secret here in my opinion. You have to say, on the contrary, the truth about this, and even what is meant to be said or done in this time. Now I can only see why the supervisory commissions are being created, as this one has been chosen today, to which we will react afterwards, which will either blush like this or tolerate and raise my voice and against it, the truth with a little delay. This is below every level of this parliament. We have far more serious, far smarter, far more necessary things to do in this House, not to deal with these laxatives, and to say for half an hour whether or not we're going to exclude journalists and the public from this farce. It was really to be excluded, but not because of the secrecy and importance, but because of the nonsense that stands on this Parliament's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10127	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Potočnik picked up the phone. Excuse me, Mr. Potočnik has one replica. Jahić Elmir. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10128	I owe a few words to say, because there were speeches and criticisms and false accusations, in my opinion, on the Party of Democratic Action. I honestly don't really know this intelligence issue. I have never had contact with this type of activity, but I would like, first of all, two -- three suggestions and I want to drop these accusations of bringing BiH into contact with Milosevic's regime. I would like to point out that, indeed, it is inappropriate and irresponsible and irresponsible to make such parallels, given that during Milosevic's regime political killings were organised, you know Stambolić and many other officials were lower-ranked, so it is really not appropriate to bring it into context. Also, I agree that there are these events and, let's say terrorist attacks, some bombings and killings. That is what we are, indeed, the most opposed to the ineffective work of police commissioners, set up during the alliance. While such catastofal criminal acts are taking place, these gentlemen who are the most in charge of resolving these issues are on some trips either in Europe or in the United States, and we know very well that they were appointed during the alliance of authorities and hence their responsibility. In fact, such a vicious security system as it has in BiH, especially in the Federation, is certain that there is nowhere in the world, which is therefore that the minister can influence efficiency, police service work. It's certain that, here's what I'm saying, obviously, based on what I've read, skilled maneuvers are, in fact, trying to direct things from the essence of things, from the very essence. As far as I'm aware of the listening approval here, it wasn't on the name of Mr. Lagumdžija, or on behalf of these journalists, nor was it on behalf of this Hague officer, the directorate in Sarajevo, but as I don't know either. So they weren't the subject of listening. The subject of the listening was, therefore, the former FOSS chief and all those who spoke to the former FOSS chief were, in fact, recorded, hooked up to the conversation and were then the subject of the listening. All these people were not the subject of listening, and it is certain that we should condemn every attempt, where they are trying in one way or another to question the work of any political party, but, obviously, we also have double arches here, because that human rights violation, which was certainly in this case trying to heal in such a way as to violate the human rights of others. Here, in particular Mrs. Seada Palavrić, where some other people, where there have been, and some other people, where there have been talks about these posters etc. Surely we must not allow basic rights to be violated by political parties. However, the question arises, whether and whether the work and activities, I don't know the police leaders, here's former FOSS chief, with certain political party leaders, with this being said, etc. So, should these political officials be allowed to participate in the work of some political parties and to contribute to all that is said here, because it seems to me that police and intelligence services should be independent, especially politically independent. Are they politically independent, obviously not. I also agree with everyone here that, indeed, it is time to take down the label that, that, as Parliament, we are asking to remove the mark strictly confidentially and 109 to deliver it to the MPs, and, if necessary and to be available to the public, because it seems to me, here, just a moment ago, we have seen, do not overload this to be, indeed, a polygon for some media presentation, politics, etc. Let's see, we've been saying from the beginning that this should be a matter of the investigative organs and that finally, in this way, it shows the truth, and not here in some half-truths, disinformation, some quotes that come to half of that quote, so it stops when the essence has to be finished, etc. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10129	Wrong quote, Mr. Potočnik, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, so blame the quote and the replica lose their meaning at the time when the MPs are looking for it. I'm sorry. I ask the MPs to make sure they don't put me in a position to...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10130	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Jahić was saying, in the sense that there should be no first partnership with Serbia and the Milošević regime, that there were political murders there, and that it was not in BiH. I say there is a guilty allegation, because there have been, among other things, political murders in BiH. On that day, when the commanders and murderers of these people are discovered, you will best deny me, or deny my claim, and re-compromise with Serbia. Why don't we look up to Serbia, as it countered organised crime in Serbia, when BiH will, or national parties in power, do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10131	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10132	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I suggest the next conclusion. There was no preparation for a coup. Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Lagumdžija please do not use this pay phone to promote their parties. If they have problems with each other, whether party or personal, there are other legal and judicial ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10133	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Here, he has a written conclusion. Mr. Nikola Kragulj picked up his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10134	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I think we have two questions in front of us here today. One thing's over. There was no coup, there was follow-up, etc. Legally and illegally, we all know from this you can get an assessment that it's illegal and ultimately, no charges have been filed. Diva's stable, everything's stable, a little edgy about rocking, but we'll survive. This is where 110 asks each other a question. Here is the question of the circumstances and motives under which it occurs in this practice and in this process that was happening in this case. It is being set up and it is, in my opinion, important that the lighting will be, probably, the role of the commission, which I support to be extended, so that it can provide answers to these questions. The question arises who makes lists of suspicious people and based on what. Who? Someone has to initiate it, based on what does it suggest? Who gives, after all, a warrant to be followed from, and who makes first lists, so who gives orders to follow people? I don't know who. Secondly, we have to deal with this practice like this. No one can say that this has no serious influence and that these are not, that there are not always serious consequences behind this. After all, they devalue themselves politically, devalue people, create one general uncertainty. This is certainly not a message for young people to stay in these areas that they will be safe and live in a prosperous state, etc. These are all the questions that must be asked here, which should be given, right through this, under what circumstances and why and what motives this is doing, the best answer to this will be given. I therefore believe that it is necessary to extend to the Commission, that the Commission must give answers to this, that it must give, also answer why what is not finished is skillfully placed, what is in progress, etc. in the media and on this basis is produced not only by entertainment, but by creating an idea of who is the state enemy, who is on the side of the country, etc. I think that it must also be reviewed within the framework of intelligence services and I think that there must be an answer here to how far through this kind of human rights violation and that, in this sense, the opinion of the High Representative should be asked for two reasons. And for human rights, and for being followed here by people and listening to people who work in OHR. These are important questions for me in this matter, and as far as the coup is concerned, it's clear to all of us about the material that we've been given that this is a done deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10135	I thank Mr. Kragulj, who continues to answer the word? Mrs. Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10136	Dear Members of the College, colleagues, fellow Members of Parliament, I will speak on this subject, although I must say that I do not consider myself competent to discuss intelligence issues, the work of intelligence services, etc. But let me initiate a debate about a coup, a broken constitutional order, bid a few questions, a topic and a dilemma in which we should discuss these issues. So, violation of the constitutional order, like a coup. I will ask the question, would it perhaps be more appropriate for the state parliament to open a debate on the overall constitutional order in BiH, whether constitutional order is being violated, of course, with a positive sign of a disturbance when it comes to key reforms that this parliament is discussing, in the field of defence of intelligence services, economic reforms, public service reform, etc., where, for some reason, each of us is sometimes called 111 to the Constitution or possibly protecting it or violating it, to get what they possibly want. Either to what extent and whether we want to open the constitutional order issue, whether it is a good constitutional order in BiH at all or not. Whether it contains any restrictions on the reform nature, institutional or pre-institutional nature, how much it may cost us financially, and whether any reduction in public spending costs, which is two-thirds of total consumption in BiH, also means a blow to the constitutional order. If anything deserves attention in this debate, it's intelligence. First, do we have the need to reform intelligence and what kind of intelligence it is, and obviously it does. And who and what reforms are preparing for the lead with Mr. Hočiš, and if we're going to stop by on this subject, when we're experience from this call case, when we're discussing a new intelligence law. Of course, if we have the opportunity and the time to change anything, since it's common in this House. When it comes to the material that has been delivered to us, I note again, I do not consider myself competent but I appreciate that we have read much more and much more clearly in the media and listened to in the media but let us ask ourselves about the capabilities of intelligence services, which I read in materials, after several iterations in my analysis conclude that a fixed phone, phone number belongs to the person and to that. In order to establish therefore, fixed phone belongings were necessary for the analysis of several steps. Or possibly that, after a detailed analysis, he can't guess to whom a cell phone number belongs. Isn't this a topic for legislative authorities with a question of intelligence organisations, human resources, technical institutions, and what I consider particularly important, parliamentary control over intelligence institutions. This topic has raised the issue of relations between us. And let me remind you that in earlier discussions of this kind, I have called and pointed out the need to adopt an ethical code of conduct for MPs in the state parliament. Of course, behaviors for this speaker and certainly outside this institution. The state parliamentarian is also a parliamentarian when he comes out of this building. This topic has raised the issue of the need for parliamentary control, and in this sense I propose that in a series of conclusions that have already been proposed, the conclusion is really profiled above the strict and need of strict parliamentary control over the reform of the intelligence system, of course by the work of future intelligence institutions. A kolega of Lagumdžija and several other fellow MPs have proposed that Parliament declares that FOS is illegal, etc. And I want to warn you that we can get into a trap. First, there are institutions in this country at different levels in line with the violated or not violated constitutional order, which do so on official duty. First of all, the D.A. said it, and I'm asking you what we're going to do with ourselves if we can conclude otherwise, or worse, what we're going to do with the D.A.'s office. And let me suggest that it would be best if we didn't say so. I've been going out for this debate on several occasions, and I think I need to put an end to a specific case, but not by chance a point, but just a huge one sign of a challenger and a red light 112 to give us something in this area or constitutional order or all of this I've indicated the need for, let's open a detailed debate in this House. I suggest to the college that we open this debate as soon as possible, so that we don't put ourselves in a position not to have time to discuss this, since we are possibly in the need of an emergency adoption of the Intelligence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10137	I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović, Miloš Jovanović and Mr Momčilo Novaković reported on the river. You found the line, you can or you can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10138	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, you probably remember before this affair appeared that I was in one of the sessions of this house, asked a parliamentary question about the covert listening in these rooms of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I say it like I felt this was going to happen, and then I seem to have told me it means either they have some devices where people are secretly listening, or MPs are spies. So there's no other one. And if we were to eliminate one of these reasons, I would suggest one conclusion and I would ask Mr. Chairman to vote. And the proposal for a conclusion is that the Ministry of Security conducts a check on the official premises of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and determines the possible existence of a listening device and informs the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10139	I thank my colleague Jovanović, will be the conclusion given to Parliament's statement. Mr. Novaković answered his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10140	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I will not, of course, talk about the report because I, I said at the beginning, that this report is really about this report and I don't think there is any special debate to be conducted. What I wanted to say is that this debate is more appropriate to the Federal Parliament or the Federation Parliament, since this is primarily about the Federal Intelligence Service and that perhaps we are part of the debate here where it is not the place. But all right, we formed the Commission, and I wanted to remind myself of the Commission's mission. I think this committee of ours has done the task with this report. So what is required of it, that is, what we have assigned to it as a task. If we want to move forward in this, then either we need to give this commission a new mandate, means a new mandate, or we want to form a new Commission, or we want to say that the Joint Security and Security Commission, which one of the tasks has and this one, the Information and Protection Agency of BiH, is newly formed today, or we want to give it to it, but there is no extension of this commission's mandate. In my opinion, it means that given the conclusions we've made, it's out of the question. 113 As far as this issue is concerned, in order not to gain, of course, the wrong impression, we are absolutely against all forms of listening which, for the ultimate purpose, is to discredit any person, regardless of the political party he belongs to. So, I ask you not to misread the position of the Serbian Democratic Party's MPs. As far as working methods themselves are concerned, we accept and acknowledge that these methods are better understood by those who have previously been in cahoots with these services, and worked with them. So they're better off, and they know these methods and we don't even want to get involved in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10141	I thank my colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10142	The speaker, Mr Špirić, answered for the word, and so Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10143	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I do not think that this is today a non-essential point and an irrelevant debate, although I think it is very important for the future of BiH and I think today's debate and that MPs will be able to get the strength to reach conclusions that will make it impossible in the future for colleagues to talk about what they are talking about, that the services are working outside the law. This is not only the interest of Zlatko Lagumdžija, Seade Palavrić, Nikola Špirić, but this is the mutual interest of the state in which we live. If any luck had been done by law and everyone had done what they owned, we would have had ministers working here today, including members of the prredsjedništvo, because there were different messages, even from the Presidency to live in the country where the impact was being prepared. I must say that the most damage to my personal assessment has been made to this country's assessment that the former foreign minister of BiH has been preparing or participating in the preparation of the coup. This is the biggest damage this country has experienced politically and in every sense. Activators of such structures have done the most damage to BiH, whether they are in politics or in the executive wave. I must say that we have had three, four sessions in the Commission, that we have twice asked for materials to be delivered to us in vain, and that on the second question of Parliament, we have received materials which you have also received under strict P. Unfortunately, I have to conclude, that those bodies managed by Parliament or elected by the BiH Parliament have not delivered all the materials they have. That's what this parliament has to worry about. I have to go, as it is possible and by what law of this country it is irrelevant whether it is entity or state, that the reports and material of 500 pages and I don't know how many, I haven't seen, gets the Minister of Security, Mr Čolak and Mr Terzić, without, say Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž or Mustafa Pamuk, members of the College of State Parliament. By which law, and by which Constitution, and why is this hidden on our own inquiry and on our quest. So, we're asking you to deliver us everything you have, that 114 would ask the D.A.'s office, etc. and delivered us these materials. And I thought they'd deliver the materials they have in store for the State MPs to get to know the contents of these papers. Some would not even read, people may have no meaning or no interest, but this is too serious a story not for the work of Zlatko Lagumdžija and the names mentioned, but for the work of relations within BiH. And there's been a lot of false allegations here today, and in particular the false suggestion, which is very dangerous for what I want to talk about. You know it was mentioned on August 7th when the debate was held here, I will not call anyone, of course, when it was said to shake Bosnia and Herzegovina when the names that participate are dictated here in preparing it and so on. It was shaking Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately for the harm of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it proved none of it was. The question is raised here on the basis of which information the Supreme Court and the judge to whom I cannot even seem to know in the state parliament have given a warrant for listening to the former FOS director, Mr Munir Alibabić, whom I have never seen in my life. Why, what information and knowledge that is. It's very important that we know today. I have to tell you, there's a whole other aspect of what the public wants. That's what I'm talking about, not from these materials, and of course I didn't want to burden my colleagues in the Commission with that, because we'd have a hard time coming to the conclusion. Minir Alibabić is an associate of The Hague tribunal. When he was director of FOS, he formed crime investigation departments against Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak. So, crime departments. A lot of the political detachment wanted to make him crazy, silly, because only one of them is guilty here. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the point. Zlatko as a man who runs a multiethnic party, fell only into the embrace of such a hard politics. At that time, intelligence at the time was an exchange of information for crimes, for the Voluntary Sentences, for Park, for Kasindolska where Srbin did so. Looks like someone didn't want to talk about it. There's the point, there's the point, it's dangerous. So it's dangerous for the BiH state. Why doesn't anyone talk about it? Why can't we know the information? If anyone was preparing a coup, they'll be in jail. But ladies and gentlemen of political construction, insinuation cannot be a document for processing certain names. Many who are now the heads of the cent... are seduced by the processing and instead of being this warning, so the prosecutor writes there's nothing from the coup, whoever winks the government thinks it's going to be a trap of wink. What we have today, what FOS is doing today. So the prosecutor from Zenica, not related to this sequel, asks the Federation Ministry to borrow equipment from FOS to listen to strangers. Is it some Balkan blow, what it is that hits Bosnia and Herzegovina, where problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what services in Bosnia and Herzegovina do, are they under their control. How could we not have received information that the processing of Serbia-Montenegro's leadership and individual Srbin from Bosnia and Herzegovina has been committed on 1st to 15th page? For God's sake, some crime, only the leadership of Serbia-Montenegro has been criminalized, no one else. How I don't have that information. If this is about citizens outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, I guess as the chairman of the state parliament, I have the right to receive that information. If he got Terzić and Bariša Čolak, why didn't I get it? Who's hiding it in this country. What are Srbin representing in 115 of this state? Do they represent anything or Hrvat? If the information goes everywhere, where there is no functioner from the order of the Serb people. Is this the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, integral Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is being advocated by Bosnia and Herzegovina's political tableboard. These are the key questions that we need to answer and get to the core of what was meant to be achieved with this story. But when the ladies and ladies saw that the shot was empty, that there were more in vain steps, now they want to, and I agree that we need to parsify the atmosphere and look for a solution. But it's impossible not to get an answer, why we're not informed. All I care about is whether the law has been broken on the fact that I haven't been informed of myself or Mr. Martin or Mr. Šefik. I don't care. So the service broke the law. She broke the law and it must, of course, be the conclusion of this House. A number of other questions, ladies and gentlemen, can be asked today. But if we're seriously looking for a solution, it's not this political atmosphere, it's to provide an answer. Will it be again after 30 or 15 years, someone who now has information that even micro films so he can publish them, and make money on the accident of these citizens in this country, as we today have a chance to read. But as long as there is no public and transparent work, it will appear. So I'm asking to find out that FOS broke the law. I'm looking for the name of a judge based on whom knowledge has given a warrant for a listening warrant. Well, injustice is to any man named Alibabić, I don't know this man or that man, the injustice is that this Parliament has no attitude and full information. What's hiding? Let's see what Mr. Munir Alibabić's sins are. What he did against the state. But if we want to sneak this up today, so we say, you know, there was no coup, but here's the prosecutor said give it to you and you still collect it, and there was no, so take off the tag secretly, it's irresponsible, irresponsible attitude and this Parliament. I am therefore defending the views of the Commission that we have come to on the basis of this information that we have. But it would be good, of course, if the state Parliament had the will to get into the content of what I was talking about. I won't be mad at you for not getting into it. There's no reason, but it'll be hard if we get caught up in certain situations. It's a miracle we didn't react to this bug scandal in Sarajevo. It's a miracle. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that we have also scheduled extraordinary plenary sessions for the incidents, so perhaps those who were of little importance to this country. I hope that the law in which we establish one state-level intelligence service will be such content that none of those who have violated the laws will be able to approach that service. The problem here is to do one service in this country because everything else was falling service or most of the downfall service. If this service is also made up of such people, it is difficult for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone's got to kill a job because it doesn't work by the law. And at least today we need a story here to divide ourselves into power and opposition, to say that someone is for it, to say that Lagumdžija is or isn't, that Sead is or isn't, but that today we have a clear view of this Parliament. Why is it being seduced? Why are human rights being violated without having arguments, just on the head of FOS? If he's guilty, let him go to jail. If it wasn't for those who were involved in such a policy, but I want the public to know that these crime centres against Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak exist, and that it was one of the 116 reasons for seducing Alibabić, to be said to be inaccountable. A man who worked for The Hague tribunal and works for The Hague. Where it is now a will that Parliament simply affirms work and co-operation with The Hag. Do we have a will or do we not? I'm in favour of accepting that will and supporting it. Not to seduce the processing of those who work, where they feel what political party that it is not exactly their political position. That's what I'm up against. I am therefore fighting against the police state and the police working for political parties, rather than reporting to institutions and state authorities. I didn't get that information and protest for those reasons. Unfortunately, I didn't get them from either the Ministry or the Council of Ministers, although two men had that information and they still have it today. And me, I'm asking us to get that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10144	I thank Mr Špirić, Mr Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10145	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I think we are one of the first serious issues for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is only one reason for a broader debate on the overall set of issues that make up political life, which make up politics and politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, it should be pointed out that we are here in the BiH Parliament, to protect human rights, the European Charter of Human Rights, which has the right to the championship over domestic legislation, privacy, horizontal words of transparent action, etc. which means everything said in the FOS report, which is absolutely not a serial document, is not an analytical document, a document from which only confusion arises, no clear message or clear responsibility. A simple listening system overcomes the method in democratic systems. Which means, inadmissible, inadmissible methods of simple communication and the application of methods and techniques in the work of intelligence services, regardless of what existing positive legal regulations simply allow such procedures with the consent of the formal court. I also have, so as not to interfere with the mind, I suggest that we leave the Hague tribunal to print the pages of history of what was happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I would ask that without any political manipulation or conditional speculation we connect individuals of the ethnic community or transfer responsibility from one to another. So it would not be good to open these questions, let the Hague tribunal write the history of this country independently and independently through the verdicts. So I'm asking you to keep that in mind without any involvement of that simple segment in this debate. I don't think it's very possible. However, the case warns about a psychopathology of political structures and political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What does that mean? The FOS was elected by the Alliance, there's no dilemma. Sead Avdić participated in consultations for the selection of the two first people, simply FOS. That's true. Lukšić and Alibabić, what happens after a year and a half that Lukšić cancels loyalty to the Alliance leaders and simply writes such 117 reports. At the very least, if a man had a good idea, he'd have a good idea. What happened was the first person to write a report from the VD director of FOS? In the name of whom, for whom and against whom. Which means the open question is left. I'm asking you to be legal. The public prosecutor made it quite clear that he recommended FOS to supplement the data, analyse and submit further arguments simply for its application. And that's all we can do. We're gonna be judges here, there's no way people can. Whoever's trying to do this, regardless of any commission, is absolutely unacceptable. Then we'll take that practice in other cases. Then I ask that this applies to all other human rights violations. Like my human rights where I'm slandered in a single list, a selfish person right before the congress, that during my student days I destroyed Manđić, so I wiped Burek, etc. People were denied and these denials were published but the article remained human. People article stayed. Who ordered it, in the name of whom and for whom they should ask themselves well. Let him ask himself a good question. Then we'll put these cases on the agenda of the Parliament. So let's see who, in the name of whom, simply motivates the daily papers to write against people. Such fabricated lies and slanders without any responsibility. It's for nothing that you're suing or I don't know what. This does nothing to you, which means that it would be good for politicians sitting here, representatives of political parties, especially political party presidents to allow themselves freedom, I would say, and sometimes they think it is the right to use intelligence on their political action, on breaking political opponents, in the fight against the position or opposition or opposition against opposition, etc. Which means, this code of conduct, that ethics and the morals of politicians must simply develop in BiH. It's true, people. It's true. Politicians use intelligence. He's happy to hang out with intelligence because they're getting information against their political opponents. What does that mean? That means we open it all up just then, we open up all the documents we have, so we simply discuss this issue in one serious, serious way as Bosnia and Herzegovina deserves it. Which means that's my suggestion. We should also talk about this and the media, unfortunately, one small number of media that becomes the newsletters of individual political parties. Emissions that also become newsletters of individual political parties, etc. So let's see where we are today with political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means I repeat again, I'm against listening. I'm against this FOS report. I'm against even a simple denunciation of people regardless of what it was, which means that I'm asking you to look the truth in the eye and stop what's going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, using intelligence on breaking political opponents. Positions against opposition or opposition against position, etc. Which means we leave these people to do their job. Let's not traumatize them politically. They must be independent people, freed from the influence of politics, as well as the media that must be freed from the influence of politics. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10146	Thank you. Mr. Špirić answered the line. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10147	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a replica, it's a false allegation. When I spoke of course, there would be no impression quite another, when I spoke of the essence that Parliament must know. The Hague tribunal needs to do its part of the job. I couldn't agree with that, but someone who collects material can't, and when a political party feels that it's dangerous for one people, two or three of them doesn't matter, it's irrelevant to throw that man away and say he's incompetent, crazy or stupid, or he's having a coup. That's why I'm asking it to be said that the judge who seduced allowed the seduction of the trial, says what's the reason. So whether this country has to know whether or not it is. Whether or not, it's not a big deal. You know, if we play with each other so that everyone can collect any evidence, any valid evidence, so simply the services they're working for the parties throw out this kind of debate. Therefore, I disagree with that view, I am asking as an MP to know what information, which written materials, which the knowledge led the Supreme Court judge to allow for the seduction of processing. That's what we're interested in, so we'll know if it was or wasn't. And please, there are no innocents here. We can keep stories like this or like that, and we can get away with reading lessons like this or like that today, but the future that will be or our future won't be bright. I want to know. So, as a state man who wants to go all over BiH through a raised forehead, who did what he did and didn't want people to stop it from happening. But can we have this information that you're reading that you don't know who seduced the processing and you don't know what it's for? And I'm telling you, here, check out these allegations I'm talking about. Are the centers formed and what's there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10148	I thank Mr Špirić, for the replica Mr Avdić asked for, and I still don't know if anyone answered for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10149	It is applied, Mr. Chairman, to the establishment of collages very seriously, provocatively so it can be called a monster, that a man who has advocated equal treatment of all three ethnic communities in BiH from the aspect of war crimes, is being punished, questioned, tapped, etc. You have to take firm evidence for that. Unfortunately, you were just talking and you didn't prove anything. It would be good for you to put it out there and submit it to this parliament, because it is a monstrously simple linkage and punishment for fighting for equal access to all the peoples of BiH from the aspect of war criminals. How is not everything to be questioned, which means I am asking you to expect concrete evidence of this simple correlation and responsibility of Alibabić in terms of simply banishing him, harassing him because by FOS for the work he has formed all three departments, normally logically within the framework of FOS for investigating crimes on all three ethnic communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10150	Mr. Špirić again, I don't know if it's a false quote or a replica, he'll say. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10151	I'd like to ask Mr. Avdić, the Sejo I appreciate as an MP, to read the materials he's received. To read the material he got seriously. To read the materials he got twice. Please, don't say today that we have to keep it for the sake of the title and I didn't want to abuse it once. What does it say there? What does it say there? Can the State MP not think about what I was talking about? And I'm willing to get information. What led the Constitutional Court judge to approve of seduction. Whether it's a coup, whether it's this or what it's up to, it wasn't an irrelevant man. So he was the director of FOS and he was the man who worked for The Hague. I have, therefore, knowledge from the conversation that the centers are formed. You have last time a letter sent by a man head of a centre to the management of the College saying he's being called after by the defense of contacting the director of FOS. Please, what are we talking about? Well, I hope Nikola Špirić didn't get up here to talk about something here that he wasn't convinced of or with or without information, so I'm asking for it to be known. Is it or isn't it? If I were sure, I'd argue that's for sure. And why we're against knowing. These things are serious, these aren't the kind of things to hug like potatoes. But if we hug him, people will blossom in the spring in the fall. I ask where the information is, why I have no idea about seducing the processing of Serbia-Montenegro's leadership and Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I claim that this information has, but here's the deal, and if there's no such information, I will publicly apologize to the BiH public, what will you do?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10152	He didn't go out for a pay phone. That's not what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10153	So I'm talking about everything. She can't talk a little bit about this here, a little bit about who you know in the rotten pears when she goes, so this hard one's soft. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Lagumdžija, go ahead. Well, if someone's impatient and he's in a hurry, he thinks this is irrelevant, I don't mean you, Martine.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10154	According to the Rules of Procedure, we can report multiple times, it's not forbidden, but I have no need to use it as a replica, but I'm only reporting to thank all those who are here today, regardless of the differences between us there are visible in some things, I thank all those who have seen the danger that we need here to remove all of us so that no one else can ever happen again and that these things that are matured for the container are not produced anymore. About that, and I really thank those who spoke in that light, and I think that today there is consciousness in front of us when we see 120 of these three pages signed by the man who does the job or did the job, that at least when it comes to assessing it, we agree less. However, I am obliged to tell my colleague Avdić, who specifically addressed the presidents of the political parties, who are sitting here, I tried to count, so I stopped after number 1. Because I'm the only president of the political party sitting here. Uh, and I don't think so, I'm obliged to say that Mr. Vukšić didn't cancel his obedience to the Alliance leaders, he wasn't even set up there, it wasn't right for people to set up there to match those he formally appointed at that time based not on his party company, but on his state duties that he had at the time. And he did not give himself away from him who set him up, but man went astray from the law. That's what this is about. To avoid any misunderstandings with counterpart Novaković, I fully agree with you if that, since I have made the proposal to extend this commission. I agree with you to realize that this commission has ended its work, to give a few conclusions that are being made there and then to form a new commission that would be practically composed of the president of all political parties that should be this very broader context, to put this, to Parliament, to see what measures are in place that these things are not happening in the future, the abuse of intelligence and any other services that go towards violating the fundamental human rights in this country. Mr. Potočnik, I don't know if I'm going to disappoint you, but Mrs. Palavrić and I don't have any personal problems and you don't have to invite me to stop having personal problems with Mrs. Palavrić. I really don't have any, here let her and she can confirm that we don't have any personal problems at all. Sometimes we disagree politically, but it's not personal issues. You don't need to call us from a pay phone that way. And my suggestion was to remove from these materials the designation of state secrets, not everything else that still praises here. I don't think it's necessary to take down the code of state secrets, with 500 pages of private phone conversations on which it doesn't, because it's a violation of elementary human rights and freedom. So I suggested that, from these matriarchs, you take off the official secret mark, so that you could learn lessons from this for the future in front of the public, let's see what we've come into. I'm undermining once again that the Director of Intelligence wrote that he had a Supreme Court order, and that the prosecutor argued that he didn't see that warrant. In other words, according to this report we have, this was all done without a Supreme Court order, according to what the prosecutor wrote. And I, Mr. Chairman, am giving you eight of these conclusions that I have formulated to make it simpler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10155	Thank you, Mr. Belkić answered the word, so the Potočnik is, I apologize, Mr. Belkić. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10156	My colleagues, I've said if they have party problems or some other Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10157	I'm asking you to, let's be a little more patient, we've brought this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10158	Mr. Lagumdžija, I said if you have party problems or some other not personal, don't roll over my words, it's not okay. I have nothing against anyone but I have everything that is necessary for the good of this House. And while I am already at the speaker, I suggest that, besides that proposal, the conclusion that I have made that a Commission is really formed to study the work of all these services that are obviously not under Parliament's control and that they are likely to make mistakes that we cannot allow, and we are responsible for calling them off if they do not work properly or to change them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10159	Thank you, Mr. Belkić, for his word, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10160	Dear colleagues, colleagues, our approach to the whole thing was brought out by Azra Hadžiahmetović. But I have a need to say the following. In this whole thing, so to speak, the atmosphere that's kind of burdening people and it's bad, etc. I also see some good things. It's a good thing we brought it out on the face of the day, so to speak the light of day, the arguments and the reasons we hope to stick to when we discuss both the law and the security intelligence reform. So, I sincerely hope we stop at this background. I remind you, stay on this course we took here today. It is interesting that yesterday, in a conversation with the High Representative and representatives of the Council of Ministers, where we discussed emergency reforms, the urgent obligations of this Parliament, the Accounting Act was mentioned and we did not mention the failure to mention the Security Intelligence Act that we all received as MPs. So, gentlemen of the College, that document has been delivered. We got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10161	It's not the Council of Ministers yet. We got the first version. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10162	Please not secretly, we won. I got it. Not secretly. It's no big deal. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10163	Let's just listen to Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10164	We understand what I'm talking about. So there's a project, there's a law done by the Commission. We also got the Defense Act before the Council of Ministers adopted it. Please don't do that. So we figured out what this one is, so I suggest we hurry up a little bit, and when it comes to these conclusions that are proposed here today, of course we have a duty to determine them. I only appeal to ambitions in the direction that our commissions assess the legality of the work of entity intelligence services, we must adapt to the existing laws under which these services operate. So there is in the Federation there in the Federation Parliament there is a Commission I suppose there is a commission in Republika Srpska that controls entity intelligence. So we need to get away from that kind of conclusion and make a commitment whether or not this service has been wronged about the law. And in the end, this, before the statement of conclusions, Mr. Špirić, I think it would be a good idea if we had a break to keep even an extended college and that we wouldn't be able to plead ad hoc on the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10165	I'd only ask one, thank Mr. Belkić if there's anyone to answer the word? Mrs. Miličević, so let's take the debate out, and we'll make a deal. So let's close the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10166	Dear Presidency, esteemed colleagues, here we have been discussing here for quite some time today. We also have a kind of conclusion of the Commission that we have formed, whether to go further into the story or, in fact, I am interested in having you answer me one question. We've appointed members of the joint commission here today, so both at home. It is the Committee or the Commission of both homes and whether it is in the jurisdiction of the Commission, whether it will be security or whether it is only defence and security.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10167	There will be security or security but there will be no control of the legality of the work of intelligence services it will be a special body. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10168	Now, that's exactly the question, so I came up with a book that we didn't get here. That's, I'm asking you and this is an important question. There is one book in which world practice has been published by the Interparliamentary Union, this is the parliamentary security control of security. I didn't get it here as an MP. First, I wish we could all win it, because it can educate all parliamentarians in a way that can react and participate in control. That's one meaning, it would be important that the entity parliaments got her MPs we didn't get her. The second question is there as one of the solutions that the Commission which is formed can therefore exercise control, this sector which I have now asked about or has been specifically formed by the Commission to monitor this. Would it be possible for us, by extending the new Commission, to re-double some things, and for this to go on forever, or for us to move slowly towards the adoption of laws that are waiting for us and in this way all things to come to their place? And in any case, I prefer the idea that this investigation job about FOS is that it's a job of a representative or a home in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not of this home. I'd like so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-07-0.u10169	I thank Mrs. Miličević. Ladies and gentlemen, a break has been requested. So we'll take a break, 15 minutes for the parties and MPs and 15 minutes for the clubs to sit down. Please, I'm close to the proposal but to think about it. Please, we have, therefore, a report from the Commission, we have a report from the Commission, so let us be clear about this report. We have about 14 separate conclusions that are in collegiate. It is my suggestion, therefore, that we adopt the Commission's report and that each of us, to form a commission that each club should give one member on the basis of these conclusions and discussions, therefore, these conclusions that this commission is further engaged, so that it continues to deal with these matters. So, but here we'll have a session of joint clubs to see. So, that's my proposal I'm just giving it to think, and it's going to be like Parliament agreed on. So 15 minutes for the parties and MPs to rest and 15 minutes for the president's conversation. So, clubs at 1:25 in the O.R. to take a stand. [[PAUZA]] ..the ambassador has come to the following conclusions. 1. You're adopting the Commission's report, two. A new Commission is formed in a way that all clubs give one member, so that, on the basis of the discussions and these conclusions proposed today, they are submitted to Parliament within 30 days of their report and under 124 3. It is required of the Federal Parliament that the competent committee of Parliament examine whether the FOS therefore had its activities, had outside the legal activities. That's the three conclusions we agreed on. Who's in favour of adopting these conclusions? Please, where are the counters? I'd like some results. Who's against it? Who's being held back? 2 against, 2 abstentions. I find, ladies and gentlemen, that with two votes against, two abstentions, we have adopted this conclusion. We are now forming a commission; Hadžić Izet, Beriz Belkić, Ljiljana Miličević, Lagumdžija Zlatko, Filip Andrić, Gligorić Tihomir, Lozančić Ivo, and please see if there are any other clubs left and Mladen Potočnik. Please conclude you heard, the Commission is formed. Thank you. We are completing the work of today's session. Please on base, then you didn't follow. So, the next session is the 20th at 9:00 p.m., you got a call. Thank you very much. The session ended at 2:15 p.m.
