ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u272	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of the information funds, all of you present in this room, I welcome and open the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fourth session of the House of Nations is attended by 13 delegates, of which 5 delegates from the Bosniak people, 4 delegates from the Croatian people and 4 delegates from the Serb people. Mr. Chairman Jukić and the chairman Milojević have justifiably failed from this session. Mr. Jukić is ill, and Mr. Milojević is officially absent. For the 4th session, I propose the following agenda: 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. Journal of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. Selection of members of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in a) Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, (b) Central European Initiative, (c) Interparliamentary Union 4. The appointment of members for the joint commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly to reach an agreement on the same text of the law on the distinctions of BiH; 5. The appointment of members for the joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to reach an agreement on the identity of the text of the Law on Gender Equality and Gender Equality in BiH; 6. Conclusion on the withdrawal from the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the Rights of the ethnic and national communities and minorities in BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Rights and National Minorities – Proposer of the House of Representatives, in accordance with Article 100 of our Rules of Procedure; 8. Ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the modification of the Treaty between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the promotion, mutual protection of investments – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 9. Ratification of the International Convention on Plant Protection - a new processed text - approved by the FAO Conference at its 29th session in November 1997 - Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 10. Ratification Treaty between the governments of Balkan countries in economic and scientific and technical co-operation in the area of agriculture – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 11. Ratification of the United Nations Security Convention and Associated Staff, adopted by the UN General Assembly of 9 December 1994 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 2 12. Ratification of the trade agreement between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 13. Ratification of the International Convention on the control of terrorist bombings adopted by the UN General Assembly on 15 December 1997 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 14. Ratification of the agreement on the five-year development co-operation programme 2002 – 2006 between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the BiH Presidency; 15. Ratification of the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives with the aim of detection, Montreal, 1 March 1999 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 16. Bosnia and Herzegovina's final report on the state of sustainable development for the World Summit on the sustainable development of four-language audits -- the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering their word? I see no one's answering. There's no change and no supplement. In accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I consider the agenda adopted. Do we agree? There's no vote on this in principle, but here. Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.1. The answers to the delegates' questions and the delegates' questions to the questions asked were, as far as I have information, two. It's for Mr. Jukić and Mr. Limov. Mr. Jukić is not here, and we don't know if he's happy with his answer, but there's Mr. Limov and I'm asking if he's happy. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u273	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I asked Mr. Human Rights and Refugees Mr. Mirsad Keba at the 2nd session. In accordance with Article 121(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, the minister was obliged to deliver the reply within 15 days, and he could exceptionally request an extension of the deadline for the next 10 days. Of course, extending the deadline is not the main reason I went out for a pay phone, but first of all to say that the answer I got is such that I can't be satisfied with it for not answering the question. I also appreciate the fact that it is indicated in the answer that the Ministry does not have the data, but I use the opportunity to express the expectation that the Ministry will try and obtain the requested information and expect to deliver them to me afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u274	Thank you. So here's the incomplete answer that our delegate is not satisfied with, and I'm leaving the minister with a possibility, another possibility to answer the question fully to Mr Limov's question. So this is all about answering delegate questions. Does he have any delegate questions? Here you go. You can check in right now. Is there anyone else? Mr. Zno. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u275	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, dear guests, I just want to ask one question. From the PIO Federation of BiH, the deceased's family asked for a M4 form for the year '85, '86,'87,88, '90. and '91. He addressed the PIO RS Fund and the school in Zenica. But the PIO Federation Fund has gone deaf to all this and I now want to ask the question on behalf of the dead family. Why they don't want to deliver that M4 form for this year, which I've listed, and I'm asking if it's possible to deliver it urgently to that family, because they need it to solve some pension issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u276	Thank you, too. Mr. Zno. Mr. Spasojević delivered it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u277	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary question, related to a memo that I have received as a representative in the Council of Peoples of this Assembly. I don't know if the rest of them got it, if all the MPs got it from the tobacco factory in Ljubusko me as an agent. It's signed by the owners of this factory's management and workers. I'm expanding it and I think it's also logical to have this inquiry put up by the entire industry or the production of cigarettes in BiH. We could define the issue, as a matter of protection of domestic cigarette production in BiH, because, as I was asked, it seems that it is a completely undefined, legally unregulated, I want to say to the wild cigarette market. If the exact assumptions are that 50% of the tobacco products in this country are consumed by those who didn't produce them here, and we know what tobacco industry we have and what natural and all the other potentials we have for that industry. Presumption as well, answer me and you will answer us. Is it true that there is nothing regulated by the law in this industry at all, that no planting, no processing, no production of tobacco processing is regulated, and the logical assumption is that, according to some claims, if everything were regulated and if everything were put into logical legal frameworks, then in this country, for two or three years in this industry, it would have worked even more than 50,000 people. The question can simply be brought to our attention, whether and when the BiH state will protect its tobacco production, if we cannot already protect the production of computers, then I think this is one of the fundamental issues, protect what we have and what we can protect, because that economists know how many countries in the world have from tobacco. The question is addressed, I don't know exactly who. I named it the relevant body at the Council of Ministers. Whether it's a ministry or someone else, I guess they know it in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u278	Can we get that question in writing? Great, make a question. Come on, please say it over here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u279	I'm sorry. I'm joining my colleague. I also got this same letter, and I think it's okay, because we in Semberia also have quite the amount of tobacco that we sow and we want to protect our product, because these quantities of tobacco that we sow in some 4 roads go to Serbia in Croatia, etc. There they are processed and re-arranged, etc., I believe that this question is taking up an adequate place and that the Council of Ministers should give an adequate answer to this question that we have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u280	Do we have any more parliamentary questions? Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u281	Dear President, dear colleagues, I have one question about Mr. Čović's interview with the BiH presidency in Vašinkton Tajms, according to our press. In particular, I have read in the Jutarnji novine since Saturday and, among other things, it is stated that there is an El Qaeda branch in BiH, that Hrvat in an entity with a Muslim majority, possibly Bosniak, are deprived of jobs in many state ministries, that many humanitarian agencies in BiH are covered by terrorist groups that finance countries from the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia. The question, then, refers to Mr. Čović. Based on what evidence does Mr. Čović claim that there is an Al-Qaeda branch in BiH? In what way are the majority Muslims in BiH the Bošnjak people, rather than Muslims, denied jobs for Hrvat in various state institutions? On what basis did Mr. Čovih say that many humanitarian organisations are covering terrorist groups, and in particular how does he know that the countries of the Middle East include Saudi Arabia financing these activities? Has the BiH presidency discussed the issue of which Mr. Čović is a member and have they taken views on it? I think Mr. Čović really needs to answer this and come here to Parliament to say something about it. It's a question to Mr. Čović. And now as a man, I have to say something here, because my conscience can't be calm if I don't say it in front of Bogo and in front of people. Yesterday I was in Srebrenica, that's why, because it's very fresh for me, I don't think there are any citizens in BiH today who can't sympathise with the deaths of innocent people anywhere in the world, civilians. And, for that reason, since various war events are happening, especially now in Iraq, I, as a man, would like Parliament to do so. To appeal to international factors to do everything to prevent civilian casualties anywhere in the world and in Iraq and to approach all problems by political means. That's what I say as a man, as a member of Parliament here, as a member of this people's home, that I can sleep peacefully tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u282	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Please, can I get that question in writing from the MPs? Thank you very much. Any more parliamentary questions? Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u283	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, it is not appropriate to react or say anything at all if the MP has asked a question, but I would have noticed that this issue is based on the comment of a newspaper in our country on a text written somewhere abroad. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u284	Thank you. Mr. Brka wants to explain something.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u285	I just asked the question to unmistakably get rid of it, because I was reading the text. I don't trust him. But if it's true, if there's no answer to that text, then it's suspicious to me, and that's why I've asked the question to remove any doubt, I want us to have the purely political views of all the factors in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u286	Thank you, Mr. brkati and Mr. Filipović. Thank you. Are there any more parliamentary questions, or have we exhausted them? Thank you very much. So the parliamentary issues have been asked, completed, and I suggest we move to agenda two. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Does anyone answer the word? Any objections to the record? No Niko's answering, which we could say is fine. Who's to adopt the record as it is? So unanimous. We're all in. Ad.3. Selection of members of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in these organisations: (a) Organisation for European Security and Cooperation (b) In the Central European Initiative c) Interparliamentary Union... Two members are elected to the Organization for European Security and Co-operation from the House of Nations: one from the order of the Serbian people and one from the order of the Croatian people. ( b) A member is elected to the Central European Initiative of the House of Nations and is elected from the order of the Bosniak people. c) Three members are elected to the Interparliamentary Union of the House of Nations: one from the order of the Serb people, one from the order of the Bosniak people and one from the order of the Croatian people. This is a concerted proposal by both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Colleges, in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? Let me read this list of what's agreed so far to deny the right of club presidents. First, in the Organisation of European Security and Co-operation, Serbian people Zoran Spasojević, from the ranks of the Croatian people Velimir Jukić, were proposed. 6 Who's in? Unanimity. For members, therefore, Zoran Spasojević and Velimir Jukić were elected. The Central European Initiative was proposed by the Bosniak people Mustafa Pamuk. Who's in? I'll vote for myself, I'm not modest. Unanimity. Mr Mustafa Pamuk has been elected as a member. In the Interparliamentary Union, members from all three nations are proposed: from the Bosniak people Osman Brka, from the Serbian people Nada Radović, from the ranks of the Croatian people Anto Spajić. Who's in? Unanimity. So, Osman Brka, Nada Radović and Anto Spajić were elected representatives. Ad. 4. The appointment of members for the joint commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House to reach an agreement on the authenticity of the text of the Law on Features of BiH The Law on Features was adopted in various texts in both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. The Joint Commission should reach agreement on the same text on the Law on Fines in accordance with Articles 94 and 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The College of the House of Peoples with representatives of the national clubs proposed three members for the Commission and that: - Halid Genjac, Boško Šiljegović and Ante Spajić. Who's up for this proposal? So good unanimous. Fifth, fifth point Ad. 5. The appointment of members for the Joint Commission of both the House of Parliament of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to reach an agreement on the equality of text in Bosnia and Herzegovina on gender equality and gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the different text of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Joint Commission should find agreement on the same text of the Law on Equality and Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The presidents of the people's clubs proposed for members of the Joint Commission and so on: - Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija of the Bosniak people, from the order of the Serbian people Vink Radović, Radovanović, from the order of the Croatian people Ilije Filipović. 7 Who's in? So unanimous. So Hilmo Neimarlija, Vinko Radovanović and Ilija Filipović were unanimously elected. The sixth item of the Ad agenda. Six. The conclusion on the withdrawal from the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the Rights of Ethnic and National Communities and Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina You received the proposal for a conclusion in the materials. Here, is anyone answering for the discussion? If no one's answering for a discussion, I still want to say sentence two. Namely, the House of Peoples in the previous assembly at the front of Mr Ibrahim Spahić passed the Law on the Rights of the ethnic and national communities and minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while at the same time the Parliamentary Assembly's House passed a law proposed by the same law proposed by the Council of Ministers. We discussed this law at the Club of MPs and the College and found that the law proposed by Mr Spahić in the House of Peoples has significant shortcomings in relation to the law proposed by the Council of Ministers and adopted by the House of Representatives. For this reason, whether the College of the Assembly together with the presidents of the clubs of the House of Nations has decided to propose today that the law proposed by the House of Peoples in the previous assembly be withdrawn from the procedure and I think it is. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u287	To help out very briefly. I was the president of the Human Rights Commission in the House of Representatives in the previous session of the Parliamentary Assembly and that law passed through our commission. He agreed unanimously on the Commission and in Parliament and agreed with international factors. We've even been to a meeting with the Venice Commission and I don't think there's really any problem that we here now accept the proposal proposed by Mustafa Pamuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u288	Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? - Thank you very much. So we adopted this unanimously. The seventh item of the Ad agenda. Seven. Proposal for a conclusion on the protection of the rights of national minorities Proposing the House of Representatives, that is, the proposal to be adopted pursuant to Article 100 by an urgent procedure under Article 100. Home to the people. 8 Behold, this is a proposal adopted by the House of Representatives, a proposal proposed by the Council of Ministers. I don't know if anyone's here. Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u289	I have nothing against this law and even wish that this law should be passed as soon as possible and that all minorities should have rights in all countries of the world, including in our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In principle, however, I was against it, and I spoke against this article in the last and last sessions against this article in 100, that is, this urgent procedure. I don't know. I'd just like someone to come out and tell me the reason this law is passed by an emergency procedure, there's no reason in my opinion. But if there's any reason I'll respect that reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u290	Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. I'm obliged to say what the reason is. As I was told by the Council of Ministers in the procedure, it is in the process to approve some funds for this intention and to do so and to make that happen first there must be a law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and only then to do so. That's why I'm asking, here's this assembly to make sure that's why we're here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u291	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs. This morning, at the Croatian Representatives' Club, we discussed how to act here today at the vote. Is that it's required of the House of Representatives that it goes according to Article 100 and we won't block it in terms of these interests, we'll accept that it's being brought here today. I'd like to support my fellow Spasojević. We also now know the reasons why, sometimes we need to be told and why this is required by a very urgent procedure, because there is very little time left for us to be able to discuss the legal regulations for which we raise our hands here. Uh, we've now rejected a legal act that has also had its shortcomings, but neither has it that passed the House of Representatives without its shortcomings. There's a lot of inaccuracies in this bill. He's enough to say it inexplicably and vaguely in certain articles and that it wouldn't be just a fossil I'll tell you that's - Article 4 that says - every member and national minority has the right to choose freely. Well, he doesn't say anything. It was probably thought to choose and be chosen. That should have been more specific. In Article 13, there is even one word missing. In another article, it says -- entities and counties in the Federation of BiH will consolidate their laws, it says, according to the possibility of members of national minorities to establish and run their own, private and educational institutions and professional training. They probably meant the word school. That word is missing. 9 Article 16 could discuss whether it is necessary to go, with all due respect and the need to adopt this regulation with respect to all the rights of national minorities, to give them maximum as provided for by international rules, international conventions, but to make local media install something by law into progam schemes, you know to interfere in some sort of editorial policy of local media to go and drive a single show, once a week some national minorities, and regulate it by law, instead of in that environment where a third of the absolute majority or relative majority is. These national minorities agree with the competent or relevant political authority and the rational minority in what way, in which form the rights of national minorities in the media will be presented, etc. So here we are. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal This is so imprecise and repeated behind the article, so paragraph 1 of this article should be put to the point, to delete this, because this is already said in Article 12. And another nebulosis in Article 18. One Hippo bank or any other foreign bank financial and monetary house now makes this regulation make forms. If any representative came without mentioning any, I all respect, this national minority representative to pay for something, to be in the language of that national minority. So please, the national minorities are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina know one of the three equal languages of the nation's forming nations. And now to force Hypo Banka to do this at 17, you have in Article 3(2) of the numbered, numbered 17 national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same is required for hospitals, etc. I think it's a matter to discuss. And Article 22 is very incorrectly said here that the Council of National Minorities will delegate a person, expert in the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Commission for Human Rights. Whether only about national minorities issues or not at all. It's not, it's so imprecise to read from this that it's going to be a permanent member without voting rights, probably in some things, but it's not worked out, a permanent member of these two bodies. And those are the reasons why we've doubled how to go around here today. So we're going to support and we're going to accept this legal act, but that these indeterminateities are in a certain way and I'm going to say "doing it in some way" kind of a conclusion here to regulate it that way. Or immediately after the publication of this law, we can initiate its amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. I'm obliged here to say that we and the gentlemen of the clubs, the club presidents of all three peoples, have discussed the need just as a reason for the international means, these funds for these purposes, and I may have overlooked them saying so at the clubs. If there's nothing, if there's no further discussion, I, come on Osman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u293	I am obliged to answer, because in one particular way I was called, because I participated in the work in the project, in the work of this law. We all know perfectly well that all the laws in us are 10 compromises. We all know that, and sometimes this law is passed for 2-3 years, you know. That's one thing. And another thing. The law never regulates everything absolutely. Why do they have sublegal acts and now we're not working on it? When it is passed, thank God, it can be initiated to amend and supplement the law, and this way, if we don't have it, we can't even run it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u294	Thank you, Osman. I think we've exhausted this discussion. First, let's vote on who it is so that we can pass this law by an emergency procedure under Article 100? - Thank you very much. One abstention. You're abstention or against, I'm sorry. Abstained. Thank you. Thank you very much. Here is now Mr Filipović, and in part Mr. Osman Brka discussed this law, they found some shortcomings and, not some, I would say even serious shortcomings. However, I am prone to the situation in which we are, in which the Council of Ministers is located, to propose that we adopt this law, and then very quickly to launch the initiative at the wake of this as Mr Filipović said, and to prepare this in a quality way that we have a good law here and that there are no such laws, I would say, come on, Mr Filipović says it seems nebulose, I will say this. Thank you very much. Here, who's up for the law? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Thank you for understanding. So, in this act, we can say that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina definitely passed this law, so the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you very much. We're going to the eighth point now. The eighth point is Ad. 8. Ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia amending the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Encouragement, Mutual Investment Protection, Proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is anyone answering for a discussion, or do we have a promoter here? Here you go, sir. Please introduce yourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u295	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, before I begin to present this topic, I will introduce myself. I am Slobodan Radulj, adviser to the office of the BiH presidency and today I am on the agenda for ratification. Before I go, I'd also like to do a successful job at this home, which can be said to be successful by now. And I'm sorry I didn't sign up before, because I figured there'd be a break like it can be in the House of Representatives, so it's waiting until the eighth point of 2-3 hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u296	We're effective.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u297	And you're already here. As you've already got in the materials, here we have 8 points for ratification. Of which are 4 international conventions, 3 are bilateral agreements with another country and 1 is a multilateral contract. The shortest he could say is that – as far as the convention is concerned, you saw that this is about the Convention on the Security of UN personnel and trained personnel, then the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorist and Bombs and the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives with the aim of detecting. These three conventions are part of those conventions that Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken over on the fight against terrorism and are only part of these conventions that are on the agenda today. They are the signs adopted by the UN, the General Assembly, so a complete procedure has been implemented until ratification occurs and those as such should be ratified. Also, as far as bilateral contracts are concerned, I think we have three, one of which is with the Republic of Croatia. It is about the Treaty on the issue of mutual investment protection, in fact only on the amendment of the previously agreed contract and agreement. And you saw that, it's about one member only. As far as this second deal is concerned, it's about a trade agreement with the state of Indonesia. These are classic trade agreements with countries where, as you have seen there, the text facilitates the very trade agreements and even business co-operation of countries. The bilateral agreement was also concluded with Greece regarding Bosnia and Herzegovina's assistance for a five-year period. You have seen there a figure of around €19.5m is projected to help Bosnia and Herzegovina again is within the EU. There is also an agreement here with, which I have not mentioned is related to the Convention on Plant Protection, also a significant convention in which both Bosnia and Herzegovina should participate in protection in view of a particular problem that normally cannot pass both Bosnia and Herzegovina. What needs to be said here today is that before these agreements came to the agenda of this house, all the procedures provided for by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts have passed. So before that, the competent ministries of the Council of Ministers, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, had carried out all the procedures for the conclusion of the contract in order to deliver it to the Presidency afterwards, and 12 The Bureau points this House to agreement so that it could also ratify the contract agreements in question. Now to talk about the essence of any contract, I don't think there's any need. If there's any question I'm here, I'm willing to answer if it's in my power. Thank you. When it comes to change, the only change is in this agreement with Croatia on economic co-operation. In fact, you saw there only a member of the 1st regularized what is meant under the territory of one or another state. You can read the writing – the land, means the sea part, etc. So it's simply territorially demarcated what's considered to be the territory of one, what's the other state. So it's covered both the water surface and the land.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u298	Thank you. We'll ask questions later. Thank you, through the discussion. Thank you very much. Here's what you've got reports for all of this. You've received reports from the committees responsible for all this. When I talk about this eight-point agenda, I call on the president of the committee, if he has anything to say, because he is. Here you go, Hasane. What's going to be a rule is, first of all, we're going to vote whether this adoption is about the president's views, because these are the real proposals, and these are the discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u299	Mr Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, remained present, in relation to the 8th item of the agenda, which is the Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, so the Commission, the Foreign and Foreign Trade Commission, discussed this document at its meeting last 20th month, on 20 March, the proposal for a decision and on the basis of everything we have already heard from the proposing representatives, the Commission is proposing that this House be decided on a ratification agreement. On the other hand, if you allow it because the 9th point is right after this so I don't go out all the time, it will be more, it is related to this international Convention on Plant Protection, our commission at the same session has discussed this Convention and feels that this Convention should be adopted in the text as it is and that it also proposes to this House to decide on granting ratification consent. This Convention regulates one part of the relationship with the transport of plants and others, which so far has not been regulated, and this is an international convention signed by a large number of countries and is equal to the elements of all other participants. So there's nothing special about Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, therefore, our commission proposes for point 8 and point 9 to give consent to this House of Ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u300	Thank you very much. I apologize our promoter spoke together about all these ratifications. I don't know if there's any need for us to discuss it that way, I think we should discuss one thing and give these consent. 13 Behold, we have heard of the President of the Foreign Trade Commission, of foreign trade relations. I'm opening a debate now. Do any of the delegates have any suggestions? Thank you. There isn't. Here's what I'm putting on the adoption of the Commission's proposal for foreign trade, is it? Who's in? Who's to give consent to ratify this contract? That's what we were talking about on this contract, thank you very much, about this contract under point 8. We are now going for the Commission's proposal to give consent to ratification of the International Convention for Plant Protection? Who's in? That was under point 8. with Croatia we agreed. Now we're at point nine. I apologize to her. Please excuse me. I'm, no, no, I'm asking if there's anyone else? Niko one answered. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u301	I'm sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u302	I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u303	Excuse me. That we respect the Rules of Procedure about this point before it is declared by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. At its 3rd session of 12.3., the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed the proposals in the package of international conventions under this point, under point 11 and point 15, so I would be in the package if you allow me to give the opinion of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u304	I'm sorry, you want to do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u305	Points 9, 11, 13 and 15. All other points are foreign trade and the Commission for Financial Administrative Affairs. Therefore, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has unanimously adopted the above-mentioned decisions and recommends that this House be agreed on to ratify these legal acts.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u306	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'll do it now, if there's no discussion. We are to repeat this vote on point 9. 14 Who is to give consent to ratification of the International Convention on Plant Protection? So unanimous. Now we're going to point ten Ad. Ten. Ratification of the Treaty between the Balkan countries' governments on economic and scientific technical co-operation in the area of agriculture, Proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. We heard the gentleman and you received a report from the committee in charge. Is there a need for the President of the Commission to say something? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u307	So when it comes to this contract between the Balkan countries' governments, we've been considering this contract and, in particular, we've been through all the procedures we've proposed to this home to give consent to the ratification of this contract. What is important here and interesting is that Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership is predicted or Bosnia and Herzegovina's delegation to this body of Balkan countries to lead this job. As we have a situation based on the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement that at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina there is no direct Ministry of Agriculture, then a question has been raised which way will be decided and agreed on representing Bosnia and Herzegovina in such a single body. After discussing this issue, using both the knowledge and expertise of the foreign trade and economic relations ministry, this commission sent the Council of Ministers a letter asking, so we as a commission propose to this home to make a decision on granting consent to this contract, while asking the Council of Ministers to adopt a special instruction and interpretation on how Bosnia and Herzegovina will have a representative, i.e. decide on a representative in this body in the future. It is likely that a solution will be found to be alternate representatives of the agriculture ministries of both entities along with a possible representative of someone from the Council of Ministers. So we asked, so that we would not enter into details about the Council of Ministers, since we want this to be adopted, to give a precise interpretation that will in the future be in fact in some way an integral part of this agreement by Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in this body is important, while we want to find ways and ways to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests into line through two entity ministries at this level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u308	Thank you. Here we heard the Commission's views. Is anyone answering for a discussion? Niko. So who is it to give consent to ratifying the Treaty between the governments of the Balkan countries on economic, scientific technical co-operation in the area of agriculture and to accept this proposal that this commission has made for? 15 Who's in? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So that's what we adopted. We're now going to an 11-point point called Ad. 11. Ratification of the UN Security Convention and associated staff adopted by the UN General Assembly on 9 December 1994 is the proposing presidency. That's what we heard. Mr Filipović, as president of the zakonodavno-pravan and Legal Committee, expressed the Commission's opinion and position. Is there anyone who answers your question? Mr Hasan Čengić is on behalf of the Commission whether, for foreign policy and foreign trade.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u309	So, very briefly. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the UN. We have already adopted a series of conventions adopted by the UN. However, according to the information we have received, there are also a very large number of UN conventions that have been adopted in various stages of procedures within Bosnia and Herzegovina, including this one. Since this convention within Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed all the levels that are foreseen and that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given its consent to ratification, then we, as a commission, have also taken the stand to propose to this House to give consent to the ratification of this Convention. If you'll excuse me, and in a relationship, so as far as the 11th point is concerned, we have nothing more. As regards the 12th point of the next item of today's agenda, so the ratification of the trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic, Indonesia as Bosnia and Herzegovina is still not a member of the World Trade Organisation WTO, then this trade agreement is needed until the time until Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes a member of the World Trade Organisation and it actually regulates quite the usual relations between the two countries. There's nothing that would be special and different from other contracts. For this reason, our commission proposes to the House of Peoples of this Parliament to make a decision on granting consent to ratification and this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u310	Thank you very much. This is about this, this 11th item of the agenda we have the views of two committees and both suggest that we give consent to, for the ratification of this UN Security Convention. Who's in? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We now have the 12th agenda on which Mr Čengić has declared himself president of the Commission, which is 16 Ad. 12. Ratification of the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia is proposed by the Presidency. We heard that, and so did the predsjednštvo. Is there anyone to report for the discussion? Thank you very much. Here I suggest we accept the Commission's position. Who's to give consent to ratification? Thank you very much. Are we unanimous? Thank you so much this time. Thank you. We have now whether the 13th point is Ad. 13. Ratification of the international convention on the repression of terrorist, bombings adopted by the UN General Assembly on 15 December 1996, Proposer of the Presidency. Here's what we heard. We heard the reports of the Commission, Mr Filipović, on behalf of the Commission. Does anyone need to be. Here you go, Mr. Čengić. That's on behalf of the Commission, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u311	So at the same session of 20 March this year, our commission also discussed this convention on the repression of terrorist and bombings adopted by the General Assembly in December 1997, and our commission believes that this Convention, since it has passed all the necessary procedures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have taken the stand to propose to this House to make a decision on granting approval for ratification. I would also like to meet the House on this occasion that our commission sent a letter to the Foreign Ministry asking that the Foreign Ministry give us information on what other UN conventions on the control of terrorism exist, which Bosnia and Herzegovina has not ratified so far, and have been in the process within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, the decisions of the Council of Europe to put these conventions and decisions of the UN Convention and of the Council of Europe on the agenda, i.e. the annual agenda of our commission, and to propose to the College of this House that it be included in the annual work plan of this House so that what is ready and what is planned to pass the procedure within Bosnia and Herzegovina is approved. That's about point 13. And as far as point 14 is concerned, while I am here, our commission was considering the same session and this item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement on a five-year development co-operation programme between the Republic of Greece, the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that this agreement should also be adopted, and in this sense we propose to the House of Peoples that it be adopted, especially since there are already certain activities that are significant and based on this agreement. We don't see any reason for this agreement not to be ratified. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. So I'm going to put this 13th item of the agenda to the vote. It is called a ratification of the International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorist and Bombs adopted by the UN General Assembly on 15 December 1997. And we heard here are the views of two committees and I suggest, which are actually responsible for this problem. They are identical, with the fact that I would like to welcome here this initiative by Mr Čengić regarding this request to the Council of our Commission, whether it is up to the Council of Ministers to deliver to us as soon as possible other conventions so that we can carry out our part of the work in time and quality in order to get closer to those international integrations. I'm putting item 13 to the vote. Who's to give consent? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Here's the ratification of point 14. Ad. 14. Ratification of the Agreement on a five-year programme for the development of co-operation in 2002-2006 between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by the Presidency. Just a minute. I, here, have heard clearly and the views of this committee for international, foreign and trade policy, is which Mr Čengić put out. Here's what I'm doing. I'm putting this agenda on the table for discussion. Here you go. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u313	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, I would like to propose that we adopt this agreement with the adoption of a single conclusion. The conclusion would refer to the Annex to this Agreement, point (a)3 where the implementation factors of this programme are defined. These factors are the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board Secretariat, the National Coordinator, the Joint Management Board. The definition of these factors states that members of these committees should also be members of certain bodies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of the fact that these bodies were established during the previous Council of Ministers' call, we may have a case of a member calling someone without being in the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We therefore propose a conclusion that could read: – The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to review the decision of the previous Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Supervisory Board, the Secretariat of the Supervisory Board, the National Co-ordinator and the Joint Management Board of the Development Co-operation Programme 2002-2006 between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of replacing those members who are no longer in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this programme requires it. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u314	Thank you very much, may I have your conclusion. Thank you very much. Do we have any further, anyone else coming forward for discussion? First yes, here we go. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u315	So I support this initiative by representatives of the Serbian Club. The only thing we may not even change is the text proposed here, but at least to be clear, so the replacement of those members who are no longer in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for new members who are in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Probably by someone under quotes, don't be angry with some national ratio that was already there. So for new members who are now in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u316	Thank you very much. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to do a methodology. First we will vote for this ratification, yes, and then we will vote for the conclusion given by the Serbian Club of MPs, that is, Mr Radovanović. Here's a vote on a proposal for ratification. Who is to give consent to the ratification of the Agreement on a five-year co-operation development programme in 2002-2006 between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Who is it for the initiative proposed by the Serbian Club of MPs through Mr Radovanović, with a normal remark from Mr Čengić? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. And we have 15 points of the agenda that's Ad. 15. Ratification of the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives with the aim of detecting Montreal since 1 March 1991, Proposer of the Presidency. The Commission! We have a Constitutional and Legal Commission that has, which has been apparent, given its position and we have this commission of external and trade relations represented by Mr Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u317	So our committee has also considered this convention and has given its consent, or proposes to the House of Peoples to give consent to a decision ratifying this Convention. 19 We can only say that we regret that the Convention has not been ratified and respected since '91. years and years and so forth.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u318	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Here's if there's no one against me putting on the motions of both committees for a vote. Who is it to give consent to the verification is it, please, for ratification? Are we all in? Thank you very much. You're very kind. It's very effective. Thank you very much. Now let's go to this 16th point of the agenda. This is for this session and the last item of the agenda. Ad. 16. Bosnia and Herzegovina's final report on the state of state, sustainable development for the World Summit on the sustainable development of the Council of Ministers is a proposal. Here you go. Mr. Čengić, is this what you said last time? Come on, tell us one more time and let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u319	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. In front of you is the proposal for a report on sustainable development, on the state of sustainable development in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is true at the time when it was prepared for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg from 28 August to 4 September last year. This report was delivered earlier, so on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I also explained to the two previous committees of this house exactly one misunderstanding why it is called the Report on Sustainable Development for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which has already been held, in other words post-actively, delivered to you, and I would not really defend the Council of Ministers' delay, which it did not deliver earlier, because it could have adopted at its session in June of last year. No, one other thing I would just say and now to finish the explanation, you have all this report, it is important to us that, as a report on the state of sustainable development, it is also accepted in this esteemed home as one of the basis for the creation of a sustainable development strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina that has been launched and adopted, in fact, the launch of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u320	Thank you very much. Here we have this item of the agenda discussed how much I know of the two commissions. First, this is for foreign trade and politics, Hasana, that's you, and then it's going to be this committee for finance and administrative affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u321	So I have to say that we were quite surprised when we saw this material and this point on our commission. We were surprised above all that we were able to discuss this for the first time in March 2003, and the summit itself was held in August-September last 20 years. However, as a committee, we have supported the idea and we believe that this is absolutely necessary to continue, and the future Council of Ministers for such and similar conferences is preparing reports and to make them available to the Parliamentary Assembly. In that sense, we agreed that it is indeed a practice to continue. On the other hand, we felt that, and this was one of our views on the commission, we felt that there was another way to do it in the future, i.e. that future reports and similar reports should be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly, or to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, before they become official documents and before they are delivered outside BiH at various international summits, councils, etc. In that sense, it would be good if the representatives of the Council of Ministers took this position, so that the practice is in the future. We simply believe that it would be useful if members of the Parliamentary Assembly had the opportunity to see this document again in that religion that was not official and official to make any observations and to use these documents in this way. As far as this document is concerned, our commission does not think it makes any sense to discuss a document already presented at this summit and what happened last year. For this reason, we have said that we are receiving knowledge, or that we have received a report, but we do not declare it. In this regard, however, the Commission has taken the view that the issue of BiH's sustainable development strategy has been very important and has decided to send a letter to the Council of Ministers, asking the Council of Ministers to draw up and deliver to the Commission and the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly an action plan to develop a sustainable development strategy in BiH as soon as possible. This is more than necessary, especially now that we are at the beginning of the four-year term, more than necessary for what is actually already done and we finally believe that the Council of Ministers alone has both the interest and the need to co-operate on this important issue with Parliament. We, as the Commission, are ready to engage in every phase of work on this strategy, to the extent that we can do so and, at the same time, think that this task should be given, indeed, a very high priority, because it is, in fact, the creation of a sustainable development strategy, exactly the background of all the promises we made as parties that entered this Council of Ministers and the background of what both the High Representative and OHR want to do under their famous initiative on reforms in BiH. So, we believe that we really should not have wanted to set any concrete deadline, but perhaps some 30-day deadline could be a realistic deadline for the development of the action plan, and this action plan would now entail all other activities until the final acquisition of that sustainable development strategy in BiH. I am convinced that the Council of Ministers will accept this initiative by this committee, and I am also convinced that the Council of Ministers will find ways and ways to engage and attract all institutions and individuals within BiH, in order to develop the best possible strategy for BiH's sustainable development and not only to develop it, but to a significant extent, in a term of four years standing before this council of ministers and this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly. For this reason, therefore, we do not think that this House can be declared to accept or reject this report, but rather, as such, it is made available to this House and we consider that this Commission initiative should also be supported. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u322	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u323	Also, the Committee for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at its 3rd session, this final report of BiH on the state of sustainable development for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, discussed and came to the attention of those who Mr Čengić spoke and here, and, the Commission found that he could not adopt or refuse this, but that this report should be taken to knowledge as my predecessor said, and that full support to the Council of Ministers was to continue working on the outcomes of the strategic programmes for future sustainable development of BiH, namely what my predecessor Čengić said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-01-0.u324	Thank you very much. Is anyone else coming forward for discussion, for discussion? Thank you. Nobody's answering. Here, let's try to make a conclusion for this agenda point. So, we have heard the proposal from these committees, and the conclusion of the House would be that we have received the final report from BiH on the state of sustainable development for the World Summit on Sustainable Development. Who's to this conclusion? Who accepts this conclusion? Thank you very much and I would like to ask as Parliament, as the House of Peoples, to accept this initiative given to us by these committees and by one and the other, that the Council of Ministers try to draw up an action plan for the creation of a sustainable development strategy for BiH. Who's the same for this conclusion? To be the initiative of this house to the Council of Ministers? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I thank you and I think we've done well and efficiently. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 12:40 p.m.
