ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8856	I am opening the 16th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you all one more time together, I find that today's 16th session is present in the hall of 36 MPs, and Mrs Fatima Leho is here somewhere in the hall, so that's 37 MPs. We have conditions for full work and decision-making. Today, this session is not attended by Mr Abdulah Nakaš, Mr Zlatko Lagundžija, Mr Totočnik Mladen and Mr Gligorić Tihomir. I hope some of these MPs are here and will join us, in the main, so this is what is present at the session. You ladies and gentlemen have been given the agenda of today's session, immediately to tell you that just before the beginning of this session we held the mole session of the College and the session of the Colleges in the extended composition and that we have been keeping in mind that we are in the part of the day when it is 17 hours and 20 minutes, unanimously at the extended College agreed that the agenda of today's session be something shortened in relation to the proposed agenda. So the first item of the agenda would be: 1. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of Mladen Potočnik's representative to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in BiH (requirement under Article 105). Rules of Procedure), the second item of the agenda would be 2. The joint commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the third item of the agenda would be 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the BiH Council of Ministers on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, the fourth item of the agenda would be 4. The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the working-law status of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Issuing Commission, the fifth item of the agenda would be 5. The completion of the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House and the sixth item of the agenda would be 6. Giving consent to ratification: under 2a) Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between BiH and OPEC – Fund for International Development and under (b) Development Loan Agreement Development project of small commercial agriculture between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. In relation to the originally established agenda, this one immediately prior to the meeting of the agreed agenda was shortened by three points. The first item is parliamentary questions and answers. We agreed that this item of the agenda would, of course, be the first, as is the custom at the August 7th session, and then we agreed that August 7th should be the item of the agenda called - Consideration of the proposal for a "Safe Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina", proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. When we decided that this agenda would go to the 7 August session, we had two facts in mind. First, we have had long debates today on serious issues and this is a very serious topic and it also requires a serious debate. I don't think at this point, we're in a position to have such a discussion today. This is, therefore, one and the other for the debate on this subject, we need the Presidency of the State and we need the Council of Ministers, the relevant subjects, so that this point will be 7abgust on the agenda, and related to this point in its own way is the point of the agenda called the draft evaluation report on Bosnia and Herzegovina The Secretariat of GRECOA This is therefore a harmonised proposal for an extended College. However, I have no matter what it takes to offer to discuss this agenda. If no one answers for a word, I'll put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8857	I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8858	Here you go, Mr. Nijaz Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8859	I accept the proposal, this reduced agenda, so it's not just a dispute in our conversation with our colleagues we've been working all year and so on. and at other jobs, I think it is not reasonable to call Parliament's session on August 7th, because most of us will go on vacation on August 1st. Now let's interrupt it, etc. So be it 17 or so, but I think the 7th, because after all, maybe we're in a situation where we're constantly biting, so we should act, but we don't have to go on vacation at all, but if we're already going, I don't think it's a good date on August 7. That's my suggestion. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8860	Thank you, Mr. Duraković. I'll only have one explanation. So I know about this problem, and of course we've been taking a lot of care of it, I know that we won't be in full session, the composition then, but on August 8, please nicely, so on August 8, I'm trying and we from the College are trying to ensure the continuity of the functioning of this House, on August 8, the current chairman's term stands out and it's necessary to replace, or rotate the mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8861	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8862	Please. Please, please be nice like this, so it's one thing, one thing, and the other thing is that we really have a duty and we need to work. I know all MPs can't be August 7th, but my God. I mean, we're the kind of decision, the ones who call the sessions, so we've made it, and it's not about this agenda, so you're going to get calls for August 7th as we decided, so we'll see, but anyway, thank you for the intervention, Professor Duraković. I think you have the right to say what you think. If no one is answering the agenda, then may I conclude that these six points are the agenda of today's session. I agree, so I'm concluding a debate on the agenda, no voting, and I find that the agenda is six of these points that I just read. Moving to the first item of the agenda, please, Ad.1. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of Mladen Potočnik's representative to consider the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 1o5. Please, nice college disagreed on this, and we're moving on to a statement on the procedure when it comes to the law. The vote is without discussion, we are voting on the procedure under Article 105. Who is it that this law goes according to Article 1o5? The second round of voting is. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Okay. Who's against the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Did you count it? Who's from Republika Srpska? One, good. So this is how 38 MPs were present, 24 were voting for, 14 were against, there were no abstentions. 4 So, he got the law needed parliamentary support from the Federation, from the Federation there were 14 MPs against, which is less than two 2/3, down there you were supposed to write me this, out of Republika Srpska, so this is not for but against, and this is not for but against was one therefore, it is again less of this 2/3. I find that the procedure under article 105 for this law has been adopted. Now we're going to vote on the law itself. Who's in? He can't, he can't, he can't process it, you can't get the word of Mrs. Dađžiahmetović, the procedure is, who's for the Law?,Who's for the Law? Count your voices carefully, please, just a little attention. Who's in? Hold, let's see, count the votes. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Did you count it? Okay. Who's being held back? Give me the results. Of course it was better, and what you're gonna do. It's not better this way, it'd be better to vote against in the first case, of course, but. May I have your attention, please? So this is how 38 MPs are present. The vote was 17. The vote was 19. One was restrained. The law didn't get the necessary majority, and it didn't pass. Let's move on. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. It's Ad. 2. Report from the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Commission on the achievement of the agreement on the uniform text of the Law. The Commission has agreed on the same text of the Law with two amendments, and I am putting the Commission's report to the vote. Who's for the Commission's report? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I therefore conclude that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is unanimously with 38 votes in favour. Without votes against and without abstentions, adopted a report by the joint commission of the two Houses on reaching an agreement on a single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 5 We move to the third item of the agenda, that's Ad. 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You have received a request from the Council of Ministers with a proposal from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers to consider and adopt an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The Council of Ministers' request arrived in Parliament on 30 June. It is a law declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a law under which we've already voted on the Ministry Law. I'm opening a debate. Anyone who wants to talk, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, go ahead. I have to open up a debate between Sead and Mr. Čeman, please I didn't, no it was the Commission's report no, no
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8863	Fellow MPs, the Serbian Democratic Party Club for principle reasons will not support any law imposed by the High Representative, which was not in parliamentary procedure. Since this law was not in parliamentary procedure, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8864	Thank you, I'm the only one who thinks that one explanation is that I take care of everything. A little while ago, I was told from the bench that I didn't give a debate, okay, if I don't, of course, explain it, so it's very hard when I don't apply for it, but it was a procedure that came in after the consensus and this is something else. Mr. Čeman wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8865	Fellow Members and colleagues, this is one in a series of laws that is when we have not or who should have passed the law managed to agree unfortunately to say declared by the High Representative, although it would be better if we could get the strength in all cases and sort things out in the way that the parliamentary procedure implies and the influence that is meant to be possible. I just came out to say next. I, of course, support the adoption of this bill because it is a real assumption, given the fact that the law cannot be changed before it is adopted by this Parliament. So the real assumption that if at all this or any other law that the High Representative declares could be changed. Therefore, for purely practical reasons, let me say, there is a reason to adopt this and some other laws that the High Representative of the Parliamentary Assembly has not adopted. 6 This is one thing, given that in the decisions of the High Representative I will not be able to quote it but from the occasion of the following message that the Law is declared on a temporary basis, that this one can therefore be adopted in fact in the same text, etc.itd. And so, when the law is adopted in the same text, then we find ourselves in a situation where the same text appears twice, in fact, the same text of the law. I propose that the College of the House, or the leadership of the House, better to tell Parliament in collaboration with OHR experts if it is expected and it is possible that in the future it is also a similar situation to achieve a single Gentleman's agreement which would, on occasion, read this; that the form in which Parliament confirms the Law declared by the High Representative, be made up so that there is no need to publish the integrated text, but that it is in some way the Law of Declaration, which can be made up of two members, I can really prepare that I have a working version, if we don't spend any money publishing it in the Official Journal, and someone has calculated these days in some newspapers, that it really costs very, very much. At least for practical reasons, we could save a few stamps. So that's why I came out here to say this, and here's what if, possibly within the professional service, it wasn't what it was done for, I'm really going to try to suggest a form that would be appropriate for this solution, provided, of course, that the High Representative or OHR accepts and implements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8866	I thank Mirsada, Mr. Munib Jusufović requests his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8867	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I, too, for principled reasons as my colleague, Novaković, propose the following. That this law and all others that we have not yet adopted and which the High Representative has imposed to make a list and to do for one basic reason to start working alone and to start changing the laws that have been imposed, because for at least a dozen laws I have already proposed amendments. So that's the basic reason why I'm here for adoption, so we can move on to change. So much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8868	I thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate, I haven't seen you professors here, Hasan Muratovićć
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8869	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I'd like to say that this law has a few things in it that don't stand at all, and I don't think I should be counting the members since the debate didn't open here, but I'd like to crack it if I were to, but I'll tell you one fundamental thing. This is where the entire law discusses the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The term inherited from the period when we had two co-chairs, so they chaired. Here 7 there is no chairman here is the President of the Council of Ministers etc. but there are also members that are completely pointless, which are unsustainable. I don't want to take your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8870	Thank you, Mr. Muratović. Does anyone want to talk more? Well, as far as I can tell, no one's answering, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We're voting on procedure. Who is in favour of the procedure for this Act under Article 105. Who's in? Thank you very much, if you count. Who's against it? That's all. Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? Thank you, too. Please from the Federation about it's for the law? This is what we're voting on for the procedure under article 105. Thank you very much, if you count it, yes. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? So, 37 for the procedure under Article 105, 37 present for the procedure under article 105 votes, please pay attention, Glasses 31. They were against four. suzdržan 2.. dakle there is general parliamentary support from Federation 25 from RS 7, so we can find out and we just have to determine the procedure under Article 105. We move on to a statement about the Law, who is in favor of the Law? Thank you if you count it, who's against it? I don't mind. Abstained? Okay. Thank you. All right, Federation who's in? Thank you very much. Republika Srpska, who's in? Thank you. So this is 38 votes, 33 for the law, four abstentions, no one against. There is general support from the Federation, 25 for Republika Srpska 8 for. So, I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, most of the votes with this ratio, as I have now read from the report, has passed the Law on the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to ask you one more thing just to do here this is important what Mirsad was talking about, or Mr. Čeman. You know what happens, watch out for all the laws declared by the High Representative we publish in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the messengers of the entity and then it costs everything together, and then later when Parliament adopts those laws again, we publish those same texts as Parliament's laws in the same text in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entity. 8 Now this other thing would be excessive and could be saved on that if we were to say, that when Parliament adopts the law, it certainly brings it into the text declared by the High Representative, that when we publish it, we will bring it to the text as we do so far, but when it is announced that then we say that the House of Representatives is at that meeting and that, then and then the House of Peoples at that meeting and that, then and then and then we bring that and that law in the text as declared by the High Representative and published in the Official Messenger to that and that number from then on and then and then and then on. Let it be now. Please give you the authority of the College to speak to OHR on behalf of this house on this subject? Please, you can. Well, we've passed the law. We'll deal with this now. That's not the problem. Here you go, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8871	First, I agree with the proposal that I think it would be good for the College and the other House to make a decision on how to publish the law declared by the High Representative and adopted by Parliament or both of the Houses of this Parliament. Secondly, I'm not in favour of adopting Mr. Čeman's proposal, I know it's with the best intentions, but I think it's a very bad message that we're counting on more laws to be declared by the High Representative in the future. I think it would be a good idea if we didn't pass such a bill of law or the adoption of a law declared by the High Representative, for one reason only, I think you'll agree with me. So for this, the College can make a decision that will apply and apply in the Official Journal with all the documentation but I am not in favour of Mr Čeman's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8872	Thank you very much. Is there any need for us to discuss this further? Mr. Kunić, so Mr. Čeman, you're having a debate, no, no, no, we're not done, we've voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8873	Will you listen a little bit, I don't think you're all lawyers. This one I think is an opportun, but it's not possible by legally looking. The High Representative takes a decision on temporary measures, does not pass the law, is not authorised to pass the law, and you cannot find anywhere that he is authorised to make the law, but rather the decision, thus mandatory publication in the official messengers, so when this Parliament adopts the Law, the mandatory publication. Without that, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8874	Thank you, Mr. Kunić, this is me. Mirsad, if you're looking for a word. Oh, come on, look, look, I think we're moving on like this. Now, look here, this is, so please, this is a legal-technical question that can be significant from the point of view of savings. We'll take care of everything, let the College know I think we'll finish it and we'll get it over with. Let's not vote on anything. Let's move on. 9 Proposal, we move to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a working-legal status of members of the Iborna Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've received one proposal on this agenda point. The Electoral Commission has submitted a request to the College to regulate the working-law status of members of the Electoral Commission elected from Bosnia and Herzegovina, since the issue has not been regulated by election law or regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. The college discussed this with the Administrative Commission. We've been given the opinion that this question needs to be resolved by the House. Next provision of Article 137. Rules of Procedure under which the House of Conclusion can regulate issues that are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, this point has been reformed as I'm already a river. Therefore, it is a proposal for a conclusion rather than a proposal for a decision, the proposal for a conclusion was established by the Administrative Commission of this House at its meeting. I'm opening a debate, who wants to talk. Mr Miloš Jovanović, please welcome Mr Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8875	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law, the Republic Election Commission has appointed this House. I don't know that those who were in the previous assembly meeting, so this commission was named without any reason by the High Representative. I propose before we make a decision on the status of this committee, I suggest that first this House appoints a commission, then we make a decision on its working-legal status. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8876	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Munib Jusufović, Mr. Vinko Zorić correction, correcting the wrong quote he ate. Well, not exactly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8877	A fellow Miloš said it was not about the Republic Election Commission, or the Commission, that it was not about the Republic Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8878	This is a good debate, Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8879	Ladies and gentlemen, the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives, and at the same time, thank you, Mr Špirić, I agree with you, possibly if this continues to be the case for you to make a statement about our trust, I hope that you will give absolute support. 10 So the joint commission, the administration and the House of Representatives and the homes of the peoples discussed this Law. We have assessed that it is good for those institutions imposed by the High Representative to slowly start turning where they should turn. At least we've seen that gesture as a good gesture, which is addressed to a Parliament that should otherwise be appointed. The question now asked by counterpart Miloš Jovanović is discriminatory. The only thing we rated, we rated that and then we procedured this one was thinking, what to do. However, I must tell you from then on that I have and we gave one positive one so that we can say that the House of Representatives did not know who was in charge, so we said that since the House of Representatives should have appointed it, it should have, at all and could compare their status, and then when they determine the status of professional, then it is the task of the Administrative Commission to determine the coefficients. It's her jurisdiction. However, I am now setting up a dilemma for myself and will be empowered by my colleagues from the Administrative Commission who participated and by you who are not in the Administrative Commission. What do we do now that we find out that the Council of Ministers is insisting on rebalancing, so they broke through – Parliament has also broken through this cost, in this period. We did it, all BiH institutions did it. I'm afraid we've come into a trap and not in principle playing from the international community towards this Parliament, I must say. You remember that the Law or budget has been imposed on us practically if you do not adopt it by that date and by that date. We simply knew that they were not even close to the intended costs that could settle Parliament's work. That for the Council of Ministers there is no set of institutions involved at all, etc. Now I ask the question, if today's House of Representatives seems to me that I would have to do this, this is what my colleague Jovanović is saying, but if we're doing this hypothetically, let me say, if we make a decision on the status, although we have a good will, we intend to do it four domestics. It's about them. Four domestics, however, this one now in the debate and counterpart Azra also asks now and we haven't discussed it. Whether it's a House of Representatives or they're subject to that National Administration Agency, and we don't even know when this Parliament didn't set them up. __________? The House of Representatives appoints them, who appoints them? __________? The House of Representatives, but he didn't have them. If a decision is adopted, please help me, how are we going to get in, how are we going to burden the budget, when there's an attitude here we have no position yet from the Council of Ministers when there's a position that these are some expenses last year. I'd like to have someone here who understands this a little bit to explain it to us. Here's the administrative commission had a good will so to say but these technical things _________________? Should this question be asked that wages have increased in Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8882	I mean, these questions were supposed to be asked to Mr. Jusufović, and I'll call you later, here you go, Mr. Špirić, shut up, wait a minute. Who do you think you are before Mr. Duraković?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8883	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs. I think it is an important issue and that the House of Representatives should, in its conclusion, define the working-legislative status of members of the Permanent Election Commission, it is an important Commission. It is a Commission which determines a significant part of the work related to the application of the Law of conflict of interest and otherwise all matters concerning, which are relevant to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that this conclusion, with all these dilemmas being put in place, is not in collegiate for us to reach the conclusion of the working-legal status of people. So to conclude that people are in a permanent working relationship, and that everything else defines this Commission, this Administrative Financial Commission. And in that sense, I am prepared to support this conclusion. It's about one card conclusion, that people are in a constant early relationship. Finally, the law states that they are chosen by the House of Representatives or by Parliament. It is that they were appointed by the High Representative but it is no problem for us at the next session to confirm that appointment in order to satisfy that part. But today it's only about the conclusion and determination of working-law status. And that's why my support for this conclusion is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8884	Okay, thank you. You have an intervention, only Mr. Duraković has one replay before your discussion, Mr. Jovanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8885	Well, look at me, so it doesn't make sense that we make a commitment to someone we didn't choose. So we need to first, so we choose this Commission and then to determine its status, so there's no logic, and I repeat, it means for no reason at all, for no reason at this House in the last meeting Mr Avdić was one of the chairmans, I assume he remembers, means for no reason at all he came to this House to appoint the Commission and what we have is a commitment to the Commission that we haven't appointed. ___________? I've got a need, just to be able to recite.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8886	No. No. This is a rectory, not a discussion, wait, you'll get this.. Be careful if we just point the discussion, please don't mix pots and pots here. One is status, please nice, one is the status of members of the Election Commission and the other are personally members of the Election Commission. We're sorting out the status of state institutions here. Who are these people, of course, I know it like we all do, but I can't even tell and I don't care. 12 As a House, we should be interested in the orderly status of domestic members of the Election Commission, as important institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which according to me, I can talk to this guy later, but here's what I'm going to take the opportunity to apologize to you, Doctor, today in such a position that I can't volunteer to do my job. Four people, who have two election cycles in four years, each election cycle has a pre-election cycle, an election cycle, a post-election cycle and have an obligation to implement the Law of Conflict of Interest and have an obligation to co-operate and to work on draft the Election Law. So they have, I can't volunteer to do this job and I think it's justified that this Dom finds them professional. Who they are, we'll decide when it's time. Today they are the ones appointed by the High Representative. Will this be confirmed by this House or when the term of office expires to appoint others to them, this House and this House need to regulate their status, and I don't think we should mix these two things. Personal and institution. That's it. You have your word for Professor Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8887	I hope I'm not a vassal and I don't like to answer often. Something doesn't make sense to me even though I'm a professor of these things, right? This is about us establishing the working legal status of members of the Electoral Commission. So, which is very significant and important and permanent, etc. which this Parliament has never chosen, and there is a fellow predecessor quite right. Secondly, to ask a key question, do we even need a professional Electoral Commission, regardless of what the High Representative or OHR has imposed on us. It's everywhere in the world that the Election Commission is forming an ad hoc election, not permanent, and it's going to keep us in constant session. Is that what we think every year we're going to have choices or I'm going to re-evaluate? Those are serious questions. Let's see what we need from that Electoral Commission in the first place, these few people. We should professionalize them now. So far, they've been paid by the OHR and paid fat and fat, and now we need to verify their status and still pay for selling the fog, and question whether it's compatible with this or that. So it's all that, or we need to make a decision on the height of the salary. I think they'd be unhappy if they got paid the way we do, etc. So these are the chairing, quite serious, large political issues. The first is whether we need that election commission at all. We'll form it for the next ad hoc election. It's formed, it's known by what rules and strings. Second, whether she should be permanent. I don't think so, because we've made the most expensive state in the history of the world, because listen to the Standing Election Commission mean that we're in the permanent elections and that we've agreed to that resolution. Third, why don't we verify someone we didn't even choose? Four, what do we do to determine his salary level when you don't even know how to pay these existing professional MPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8888	I thank Mr. Duraković. 13 Who still wants to talk? Mrs. Seada Palavrić, let Mr. Sead Avdić, Momčilo Novaković and Sead Avdić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8889	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must admit that I was really surprised when I recently realized that these people were not professionals. I really believed that they were in professional status in their business, because let's not kid themselves, they should do an extremely important job. On the side that I personally am not satisfied with the way they specifically made the last elections when it comes to compensatory mandates. But that's a whole different story. This country needs an Electoral Commission. The Electoral Commission has the task of carrying out the elections, implementing the Law on Conflict of Interest, of permanently following the Election Law and proposing its amendments, it explicitly states in the Law, and I was really surprised and disappointed when I realized that the High Representative was not to them as a CRA, as the Agency for State Service designated professional status. Although we are able to pay individual salaries of 7,000 DM from Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, even more so, we are able to fund these four people or some other four people, in the main Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. It is far, far more necessary for the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina than many we already have and which are on the Buddha of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And from that I fully support the proposal for a conclusion of the Administrative Commission and I think that this House should resolve this issue and then we will see whether we are satisfied with the personal composition of this Commission, whether we are going to change it or confirm it, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8890	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, you called before the Momčilo No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8891	We are distinguished colleagues here, now in one situation it seems to me that the chairman tried to clarify, explain a little in his replica position in which we are. So for me too, gentlemen is less controversial at this point whether this commission will be professional or not. It is very controversial for me that we have not chosen the Commission and that we will give them professional status and that we will not confirm them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8892	I'm sorry, I'd just like to ask you from the Europeans... wait another five minutes, just please let us vote and then we'll go. Please. We'll finish the discussion. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8893	That is why I might propose a compromise solution, which is that, with this decision, as the Administrative Commission decides, it decides on every request by the MPs for professional status and if all MPs have the right to professional status, it also decides on those from the Permanent Election Commission. Or he doesn't decide. I think we should decide, if we decide on every MP regardless of what every MP is right. The second question is a serious question that arises here if these people are asked by the High Representative and it is, what if someone needs to be replaced? What if God doesn't die? Who's going to replace him. Are we going to verify everything or are we just going to be the one place that comes instead of someone? That is why it is very important that what Jovanović suggested. I propose that we make a decision on the status but not on the individual means no, not specifically by names and last names, but by giving those names and last names, or by giving them solutions after the elections in this House here. It means that the solutions are made after the elections in Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, personally this election commission didn't deserve to be professionally... If it takes two-and-a-half months for the Electoral Commission to, instead of the MPs just to make the next decision on the list to be an MP, then gentlemen are seriously asking the question, their professional relationship with the work that they do. And for this reason, we have a serious reserve, even after the last session of the Administrative Commission when it was agreed with the Election Commission to resolve the issue of Serbian Democratic Party MPs, it has not been a full month, no one has come to the sense that the issue will be resolved. This home continues to work with 41 MPs, Club SDS with 4 etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8894	Thank you, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Sead Avdić, for the debate, of course, Mr. Petar Kunić, to be prepared, please let Mr. Hasan Muratović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8895	Well, I don't think there's really any reason for a wider discussion. Here are... clear, clear positions. I also think that the Election Commission should have professional status by not engaging in a personal assessment in the Electoral Commission. It means that today is a matter of principle, one. Under two, it is true that OHR has hurried with the appointment of this commission and has beat the conditionality of the Parliament Assembly's House of Representatives in the previous assembly. So this House of Representatives is, in my opinion, obliged to put that decision under consideration and, where appropriate, to correct or amend the members of the Commission. So it's not a ruby that you can't get past. So I suggest the following, that today we adopt a principled decision, that members of the Election Commission can professionalise their status, one by one. Two, to prepare a decision on the appointment of members of the Commission by the OHR and to put it on the agenda of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I mean, that's why we solved the whole situation. There are a lot of arguments why it is necessary to professionalise the Election Commission, why this decision should be brought to the House of Presidents once again, to see 15 meaning powers and the Election Commission accordingly, simply according to the House of Representatives and the simple powers in the election process is what, is its dominant work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8896	I thank you, Mr Petar Kunić, for preparing Mr Hasan Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8897	I don't want to answer again, either, but I agree with my predecessor, Professor Avdić, that this issue should be resolved. I absolutely don't think people can work there without being professionally engaged. But let me help this. This conclusion can't be like this. The question arises where they are working if professionally,...who is an employer, is that the Election Commission, then it should be said that the vessel is the Electoral Commission. This indicates that the Administrative Commission, or Parliamentary Assembly, is. Therefore, it is necessary to say who the title holder is, where the Commission is exercising its working-legal status.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8898	I think this suggestion is very useful. She was assuming but we can get through to that thing. Professor Muratović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8899	Dear Chairman, I'm not sure what I'm going to say, but I'd like to ask the Administrative Commission to explain it. I don't think that Commission exists legally. It does not exist in any document, it is organised by law by every state institution. It can only be established by law as any other body of state established by law and the law prescribes all its rights and competences. She's not legally defined, there's nothing prescribed about her with the law, and I suggest she go back and settle it by law and then further define it. How will we define their legal status that they are professionals when we, when they are not in any pattern of organisation, nor in the systematisation of workplaces, nor in any list of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So we would make one against a legal decision in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8900	I thank Mr. Muratović. If no one ever answers their words again, can I have some more of this, or will you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, this please we have more discussion to eat. Of course you can go ahead, Mr. Živković Milorad. So what are you gonna do? You and I, we're making a deal. Who's gonna get the word, what can we do now?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8901	Ladies and gentlemen, I know we're all tired and I don't want this important issue to be left without a solution, especially in the background of what Professor Muratović was saying that this is how one commission has to be put into law somewhere. 16 I suggest that since, as far as I can see, we have all the good will to form this Commission, or to hire these people, and it doesn't matter who is currently working in it, and we will come to this personal solution how to change, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, and again on those formations of temporary commissions, I think there is a formula for this House to form a temporary Commission, that these people should be appointed by the Administrative Commission, and that is how we deal with the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8902	I thank you, Azra you want to discuss, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8903	Dear Chairman, since you are taking care of order and Rules of Procedure and you are a very big fan of the Rules of Procedure, I am here the same MP who answered on time means and I expect that in future I will get the word when other MPs receive.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8904	That's right, otherwise he won't be able to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8905	Because of a number of dilemmas, I suggest we take this off the agenda today. We refer to the Ministry of Justice or to someone else but it seems to me to the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers to ask whether it is necessary to pass laws, possibly some decision of status, in order to resolve the working-law status of the Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-07-17-0.u8906	Thank you. If no one is answering for the word anymore I will now, please be careful like this, the election commission's status, I think I say a few things here, a body established by the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that's prescribed by the Electoral Law. It is a permanent body, which will no longer be, therefore, when it comes to the status of the institution, the electoral law is an act establishing the institution. She can change herself. The first members of the Election Commission were appointed by the High Representative and Parliament's House of Representatives is the only institution that can have jurisdiction when it comes to the status of members of the Election Commission. That's why this is the address that needs to solve this issue. And I repeat, I believe four men, four men shouldn't be a problem when it comes to professionalization. Our commission will determine the coefficients given the criteria. Please, the rest is the sekretarijat, please the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on, and they are civil servants, and that and the Secretariat of the Election Commission of the Institution established by the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the problem and I think that in this way, by solving here Mr. Novaković has spoken therefore, we do not personally employ anyone here. We're just saying that members of the Election Commission from Bosnia and Herzegovina who are prescribed by the Electoral Law can also be professionals, because their work today is like that I think you, we, you understand it or not people I'm talking about just because of an institution I don't advocate for anyone these people today if we want someone to take care of the Law of Suka and interest in four years are two election cycles under Election Law. One for locals and the other for general elections. Therefore, I am nothing called or has the Administrative Commission invented, and from one time there are four people in question when it comes to professionalization, please don't ask nicely, and we're talking about an institution. In any case, I think Mr. Kunić is right about his proposal, and I suggest that Article 2 of this conclusion reads that members of the Election Commission have the status of permanent employees in the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a legal person, as an institution and there is Mr. Kunić. You've reached your conclusion with this supplement, and I'm putting it to the vote. I'm asking you who's in charge of this conclusion. Thank you very much. Who's against this conclusion? Thank you. Who's being held back? Give me the results. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you very much. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Please nice 37 is present in the hall 29 voted for, it wasn't against, there were abstentions 8. There is general parliamentary support. From Federation 19. From Republika Srpska 9. So it's one-third higher everywhere. I find that with this supplement proposed by Mr Kunić, and as I have formulated it in position 2 of this conclusion, this conclusion on the establishment of the working-law status of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. Moving to the next fifth item of the agenda is Ad.5. The members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House You know that in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the seat belonging to the SDA Members' Club was vacant after the dom found that Borislav Paravac had suspended the mandate of MPs for going to another post. At the extended College, a proposal was put forward to elect Mr Momčilo Novaković as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Give me the results. So this way of 36 we have the results 32 are for, abstentions are 3.1 hasn't answered, no one's against. 18 So here there is general and entity parliamentary support so there is no need for entities. I find that Mr Momčilo Novaković has been elected member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we move to the sixth item of the Ad.6 agenda. Giving consent to ratification under a) the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC of the Fund for International Development If no one is coming forward for the sake of this, we move to a statement on who is to ratify this Agreement? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 36 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour against and without abstention, gave its consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development, and under b) of the Development Loan Development Project of Small Commercial Agriculture between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development Who is for this second Agreement to give consent to ratification. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Just a little attention, don't get up yet. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 37 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions, gave its consent to ratification of the Agreement to a development loan, a development project of small commercial agriculture between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament in this way we have exhausted the agenda of the 16th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I said at the opening session for this session, the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will include these two points that we have three points today practically did not put into the agenda for these reasons, so the 17th session of the House of Representatives will be held on Thursday 7 August. You'll get a call about that with a draft agenda. I ask you to respond to this session in order to complete that session and execute and replace or rotate the mandate. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 18.35.
