ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10761	... I am opening the 27th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm asking the Service to monitor the session. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests, representatives of international NGOs, have been invited to the session, who have expressed interest in monitoring the session of this house. I welcome all those who responded to this 27th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, according to the Service report, I agree that the session is attended by 33 MPs. The absence was announced by Mr Elmir Jahić and Dr Abdulah Nakaš. I would also like to say that, on behalf of the Commission for the alignment of the law on indirect taxation, Hazim Felić, Filip Andrić, Tihomir Gligorić... therefore, at a session of the Commission, which is under way, I would also like to inform you that we have a quorum and that we can make full and full decisions. You and gentlemen have received a call for the session with only one item on the agenda, which is the current-economic and social situation in BiH, with a special reference to the protection of domestic production. As you know for December 23rd, we would have called a meeting of the House of Peoples to discuss the joint commission's reports in an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the law on the indirect taxation system. The postponement of this session was due to the fact that the Commission had not reached an agreement at the time and therefore the College, the Enlargement College, had two points of the agenda for today's session. 1. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the law on the indirect taxation system, and 2. The current-economic social situation in BiH, with special reference to the protection of domestic production. Given ladies and gentlemen that the Commission is still in session, we do not have a report from the Commission, here, I propose on behalf of the College that today the first item of the agenda be the current economic situation in BiH, with a special reference to the protection of domestic production, and that the second point of the agenda be the report of the Joint Commission on the need to reach an agreement on the same text of the law on the indirect taxation system. This would give the Commission space and time to work and we have succeeded today, 2 if the Commission reached an agreement, which I have no doubt that we have this report from the Commission and that we should declare ourselves on the Commission's report. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10762	Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10763	Ladies and gentlemen MPs, esteemed guests, representatives of information funds, I therefore have no need to... have only one proposal, which could be the conclusion of this home, I suppose that a broad debate will not be held is to commit the Council of Ministers to the conclusion at home that, in accordance with the available financial and material resources, it simply helps the people of Iran, which has suffered a catastrophic accident, related to the earthquake and the great victims. It seems to me that this would give an active contribution to solidarity. The work is being done by the entire international community and the public has shown this solidarity. So there's no reason for BiH to be only when it comes to a phonograph of condolences or regrets. So, in line with the material and financial opportunities to help Iran's citizens. That could be, I suggest the conclusion of this home. There is no need for too much discussion and for the Council of Ministers to make a decision. Thank you very much. Is anyone there to report on the agenda? Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10764	Dear Members of the College, Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I was not the last time a debate was initiated at Parliament's session on the current economic and social situation, with a special view to how home production is protected here. Probably, although I hope it wasn't a late reaction, it was probably a failure to analyze it, but it wasn't just a formal nature formulation, but also essential nature, which I think will lead us in the right direction of the debate. I propose that instead of the current-economic social situation in BiH, with a special reference to the protection of domestic production, the agenda point is transformed into the current-economic social situation in BiH, with a specific focus on stimulating domestic production. If there's a need for an explanation, it'll probably come out during the debate. The protection mechanisms of domestic production are today a exceeded category. Today, there is more talk of stimulating domestic production and economic relations with abroad to stimulate exports. The mechanism for the protection of domestic production involves protectionist measures, which are open, open to us to say prohibited by international organisations, and since we are both on the path of the European Union and on the path of membership of the World Trade Organisation, therefore, from one institution and from other integration, standards, i.e. the first ones prohibit protection mechanisms, i.e. protection mechanisms in international trade. 3 I therefore propose the current-economic social situation in BiH, with a particular focus on stimulating domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10765	I thank Dr. Hadžiahmetović. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. So, we have accepted two points of the agenda, this is the current economic situation in BiH, with a special reference to the protection of domestic production or the promotion of domestic production, what Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović was talking about, so there will be discussions on both, and I think we will show our active position and contribution to this House of Parliament. Secondly, the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the law on an indirect taxation system. So, these are two such agendas, but before we move to the first item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting this working conclusion of Parliament that I have proposed to vote that the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, invites the Council of Ministers, in line with the material and financial resources, to direct aid to the citizens of Iran, related to the catastrophic earthquake and the great victims. Who's that? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I find that conclusion unanimously adopted. Ad.1. The current-economic social situation in BiH, with a special focus on domestic production or on stimulating domestic production, I am opening the debate. We received a letter from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Well, you see, the agenda hasn't changed. The current-economic social status in BiH remained a point of the agenda, with specific reference to the protection of domestic production or the promotion of domestic production. So let's add that, because there will be stories both in one and the other, because there can be paliable measures to protect domestic production, each government can bring, but I agree that the strategic incentive is therefore domestic production. But we will see the tone of the debate and see what Parliament's conclusions will be. So, the Council of Ministers. So, we have Mr. Dok's resolute secretary here. I ask if the Council of Ministers wants to explain the material that we have been given to expose, simply in accordance with what Parliament has asked to address the House of Representatives. Mr. Bešlagić answered for the word. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister. He's got an advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10766	Respected members of the presidency, respected colleagues, respected guests, At last session, as is standing here, we asked to discuss the current economic social situation in BiH, with special reference to the protection of domestic production. We have received one material, which reads the Strategic Directions in leading foreign trade and support exports. 4 I think that today, after all, this question, unless there is a previous social status statement in BiH, if there is nothing that we have asked for, because we know what caused our request, which caused the situation with the abolition of duty-free relations with Croatia and Serbia, and we have something called strategic development. I don't think I'm capable or ready today, except to listen to the exposure to participate. I'll be brief. We've been looking for a taxi, and we've been brought through the Miljaca, which we absolutely don't need right now. I think if Mr. Doko can bring and answer the questions that we've asked social policy and suggestions to overcome, then I'm willing to personally listen to this second lecture, because it fits into this part, but today we're just listening to what's called strategic development. I think in those relations, I'll listen, but I don't think we're going to get answers to the essential question. How to overcome and continue to go in what is called the current crisis situation, or crisis situation, that was imposed at the last session? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10767	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. I suggest we listen to the Minister of Resort and then Mr Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10768	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Chairman, so if any of the MPs or the club proposes an amendment to the formulation, that is to say, to amend the agenda in terms of the formulation, etc. And if there's an explanation that it's not just a form, it's a matter of essence, etc. The least we should do is hear what the others think and whether we do it or not. I'm stuck in a dilemma right now, and I don't know what it's all about right now. No, please, if people think that there is a need to remain a form of protection, not an incentive, so let's discuss it. It would be good to hear what he thinks, because it's about essence, it's not about form.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10769	I thank Mr. Belkić. I think we made a compromise solution, because we sent a request to the Council of Ministers ten days ago. Any change in the agenda formulation makes it difficult for the Council of Ministers to have active access today. That is why the proposal was the current-economic social situation in BiH, with a special focus on protecting and encouraging domestic production, therefore, protection and incentives. So, yeah, simple. So a compromise solution to each other. I think that's what we're pleased about. Here's what we're proposing. Please, nice. We've adopted the agenda. I have no choice but to put, I don't know how to get out now. I think it's good to talk about one and the other, because I think the measures to protect domestic production and demand from the environment, or from the space of BiH, have forced us to schedule this session. I regret that Dr Hadžiahmetović was not at that session and we sent a memo to the Council of Ministers based on that. The Council of Ministers was manifested by material and prepared for today's session. So, I don't mind if we discuss today and the incentive measures. That's why I suggested that it be both sides, and I think that's the point of the agenda. So, let's not argue that there are measures to protect and follow-up measures. Could it be a compromise solution? I think we adopted it as a 5 compromise solution. Thank you very much for your goodwill. When he's walking by his word. I suggest we hear Mr. Dok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10770	I thank Mr. Chairman, respected MPs, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning I must agree with Dr. Hadžiahmetović, when it comes to its exposure to the protection of domestic production, is mainly treated in a way that is unpopular, that I will not say that it is also prohibited and that this part of subsidisation or incentives is absolutely allowed and that this part will not and has never been an obstacle to any integration, when it comes to the approximation of either the European Union or the World Trade Organisation or any other association within Southeast Europe. I would start immediately with this presentation with an assessment or a report or an analysis of the economic social situation in BiH. So, we're going to start with a real judi-pi, which tripled in the post-war period while the rate of real growth stabilized between 4 and 5% with the exception of this year when it was lower, mainly due to the severe drought in the region, as well as the low level of household lending by the banking sector. In addition to the growth rates of other countries in transition, especially in the environment, we can see that the real growth rate in BiH has moved within the transition average. The share of foreign aid in judi-pi over the 2000-high growth rate was related to a major inflow of international aid. After 2000, the scale of international aid began to fall rapidly, which affected the slowdown of growth. However, as can be seen from this chart, regardless of the fall in international aid, BiH's economy has continued to grow, which means it has already begun to take on the characteristics of self-sustainability. What concerns is the unequal economic development of the country, which can also be seen by differences in the judi-pi between the Federation of BiH and RS, and is also seen between cantons within the Federation of BiH, as well as between municipalities in RS. With dependence on foreign aid, which is growing, further concern is the fact that two other changing factors, in not so small proportions, affect economic growth in BiH, especially in the Federation of BiH. It is a major consumption of foreigners staying in BiH, it is estimated that there are around 22,000, including ESFOR troops and foreign transfers, mostly refugees. One of the most significant successes is the increase in foreign reserves. Since the end of the war, BiH has increased its national foreign exchange reserves 25 times, allowing the currency committee to function smoothly. The country's inflation was under control, which was just helped by the currency board. In particular, the decline in inflation in RS was expressed. By observing other countries in transition and countries in the region, BiH is the most successful economy in terms of price stability. The fiscal refinement was constantly falling so that in one year or another it could be fully balanced. A fiscal deficit in the countries of the region, if compared to countries in transition in the region, we can see that BiH has also achieved one of the best results on this issue. While tax revenues in the Federation of BiH have followed economic growth to a maximum of 6 years, they grew at higher rates in the RS, contributing to the fact that the 2003 Budget of the Republic of Slovenia recorded a surplus. It encourages the growth trend of industrial production in the first six months of 2003. In the Federation of BiH, growth continues, although at a lower rate than in 2002, while a positive growth rate of industrial production has been achieved in RS since the negative growth rate of the previous two years in this year. As a result of the growth of industrial production and the action of monetary policy measures related to the slowdown of consumer credit growth, which last year caused major imports and deterioration of current account deficits, the first nine months of this year recorded an increase in exports and a decrease in the trade deficit. Since the end of the war, however, BiH has increased exports by nine times, which is still at low rates for a country that has a currency board as an instrument for monetary policy-making. In 2002, it was registered and a sharp increase in foreign direct investment by Coca Cola, Wolsfagen, Simens... and other renowned foreign investors are present in BiH. Compared to other countries in the region in BiH, except for Slovenia and Croatia, measured per capita, the largest foreign investment has been attracted. The increase in exports and lower import rates in 2003 also led to a reduction in current account deficits for the first time since the war, which we consider to be a major success, especially at the time of the drop in international aid. Progress in structural reforms still needs to be reflected in the population's standard of living. Payments, especially pensions, are still low, and concerns the difference in wages and pensions between entities. As can be seen from this graph, the average salary in the Federation of BiH is, directly above the cost level of the consumer basket, while in RS it is lower. The worst situation is in pensions, where the average pension in the Federation of BiH is just above the poverty line, and in RS is significantly below this line. The poverty rate in BiH is still around 20% high and here concerns the difference between entities, as the poverty rate in RS is higher than in the Federation of BiH. By observing countries in the region, BiH is still one of the poorest countries. Official unemployment, as shown by this chart is high. However, given the size of the gray economy, we can agree with other analyses and data, which is that unemployment is close to pre-war levels somewhere around 23%, which is still high. Bosnia and Herzegovina has its own development strategy, it includes adoption of the strategy and has already been adopted by us on the Committee on Economic Development and Integration. It is an important result of the government's efforts in BiH. It was created with the active participation of civil society in its own vision of government development in BiH and approved by the Council of Ministers and is expected to be approved in 2004 in the BiH Parliament. Main objectives 2004 – 2007 create preconditions for a self-sustainable economy, reduce poverty levels and speed up the process of integration into the European Union. 7 The success criteria are to restore the country's creditworthiness in international capital markets, reduce the poverty rate by 20%, so from 20 to 16. The conclusion and number of Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the European Community. Accordingly, we also have a projection of real judi-pi growth and in the next four years, BiH's economy will grow at a real rate of 5% per year. With the progress of monetary policymaking, inflation on the principles of the currency board will be kept at a low level of up to 2%. Governments at all levels will continue to run a restrictive lending policy on the domestic financial market, which will contribute to the balance of the budget with the preservation of the currency board. The total public expenditure will fall to a sustainable level under the conditions of falling donor aid, savings will have to be provided for a greater participation of domestic incomes in financing public institutional programmes and reducing tax burdens for the economy. By the end of 2007, we intend to raise awareness of current account deficits at a sustainable level of 8.5%. Given the high concentration of external debt, we do not expect difficulties in the next medium around its service. The assumption of first, the preservation of macroeconomic stability, while reducing public spending, is an important assumption for the success of this scenario. In the context of this assumption, more private investment rates will be needed, requiring the implementation of a series of structural reforms to stimulate private sector growth. To meet this assumption, it will be necessary to increase the share of the private sector in the judi-pia, which is now at a low level and whose stake in the judi-pi in the coming period we intend to raise from 40% to 71% in 2007. The growth of the private sector will grow through improvement of the business climate, acceleration of privatisation, strengthening the stability of the financial sector and increased investment of banks in the economy, affirmation of entrepreneurship, an increase in foreign investment. The necessary assumption for the fulfillment of the reform scenario is the insurance of a larger inflow of foreign investment, as presented in this chart. A major inflow of foreign investment will be achieved through improving BiH's business environment and competitiveness, establishing an institutional framework for the application of concessions, improving BiH's image worldwide and speeding up the integration process into the European Union. The acceleration of BiH's integration process in the European Union is a generally important goal, but from the point of view of increasing foreign investment, it is also important that the candidate countries in the European Union record far higher rates of foreign investment than other countries, as we can see on this chart. In the coming period, additional international aid of about 1.5 billion US dollars will be needed, as BiH will not be credited until 2007 or 2008. Since this is international aid, it should be granted exclusively in terms of favourable loans and grants. The new donor assistance needs to be provided among other things, which would help governments strengthen the social protection system, for accelerated reforms, to which governments are ready. The country's poverty level poses a constant threat to social peace, as can be seen on this chart. This is an important element of the reform scenario, as the 8 level of public expenditure in BiH is high above the transition countries. In the context of the preparation of the strategy, the medium-term and development strategies of the entity government have drawn up plans to reduce public spending and these plans are already being implemented in the defence sector. The upcoming public administration reform will lead to the realisation of other parts of that public spending reduction plan. A significant role in more efficient collection of public revenues, a planned fiscal reform, setting up a single customs administration at BiH level, will introduce VAT. Greater savings will also be provided through the adoption of a new framework for public procurement at BiH level. These measures will also contribute to the implementation of plans to reduce public spending. The increase in the rate of export growth and the reduction in the rate of import growth poses one of the biggest challenges in order to bring the current account deficit to a sustainable level and, under the conditions of reduction of donor aid. To realise this projection, structural reforms will be necessary to ensure what will be discussed later. From the perspective of foreign debt, BiH is a moderately in charge country. But most of the internal debt, public debt, is a reason for concern and a serious threat to macroeconomic stability. This plans to reduce the total public debt to a level that would be acceptable and on the basis of the Mastrikt principles, which will bring BiH closer to European integration and contribute to the country's return of credit to the international capital market. Sources of growth are in the export-oriented private sector, and this sector that BiH has a competitive advantage. These are the energy sector, the metal industry sector, the food processing sector, the wood processing sector, the leather textiles sector and the agriculture sector in RS. As mentioned above, speeding up structural reforms in the short term will lead to job losses. The majority will be replaced by new jobs through the installation of faster growth, the private sector in the next medium term. Meanwhile, a social programme will be needed, which will be financed from savings based on a reduction in public spending and reorganisation of the current social protection system. However, donor assistance will still be needed to ensure social peace, as the level of poverty seen in this previously shown counticon is very unsuspecting. There is still an unfavourable investment climate in the world and a trend in foreign direct investment is recorded. The situation in this regard does not guarantee that BiH will ensure a greater inflow of foreign investment, even in the event of a reform scenario. This chart shows that there is no major interest in privatisation in the Federation of BiH in the world, and the situation in RS is even more unfavourable. The number of tender failed is very high compared to the number of tenders published. Bosnia and Herzegovina will need new donors to speed up reforms. In the previous period, most of the public investment was covered by donor assistance. In the next period, according to this chart, BiH intends to maintain the level of public investment by 7% of the judi-pi. The majority of the public investment programme will be financed this time from domestic revenues, which will be made out of damages to public spending. However, one part of the public investment programme, especially in the water supply sector, will still need to be financed in the smaller part by donors, which will directly affect poverty reduction. This would be the part related to the presentation of the economic and social situation in BiH, and related to this part, which is currently very current, when it comes to the protection of domestic 9 production. I can say that for these three months, as far as I'm concerned, we've had very much activity, but this topic deserves one systematic and one quality work on this plan. There are some analyses, which, first of all, when it comes to encouraging domestic production and, above all, domestic agricultural production, I have to say more precisely, have found a way out of determining the resources from which domestic agricultural production would be stimulated. You must know the idea that this part should be financed, that these sources should be provided from increased excise duties on cigarettes. This is, for example, one of the ideas, which is currently the most representative and related to the quality subsidisation of domestic production, I think a number of other developments are needed, first and foremost, from the political framework, the institutional framework, and then after that we can also go into the process of registering all potential users of these subsidies or incentives further harmonising the policies of subsidisation throughout BiH and only after that can we start to determine those sectors, where we have comparative advantages, as you have seen on this display, they are here and listed and then in those sectors that money that would be allocated by increasing excises, means in this case cigarettes, but in this case it is one idea you might expect some results in a later period. As for short-term measures, you know that the last ten to fifteen days and more have been launched a very large campaign, related to the application of the free trade agreement we signed, which BiH signed with both neighbouring states and countries in the region. We have signed nine agreements four or five are already in place, but these four are the most interesting, or we can actually concentrate on two. The Council of Ministers made a decision at a session last Tuesday to postpone not only the application of the agreement, but only to delay the application of the 40% rate, so it will continue to apply to individual branches within the customs tariff, which relate only to agriculture. So they're decadently numbered. I can say that there is involved, head and alive therefore, head IV milk and milk processing, XVI meat and meat processing and some other head. So, we're just focusing on that agriculture sector. The decision was made both towards the Republic of Croatia and the Union of Serbia-Montenegro. The foothold for this decision we found in the agreements in the article, I can't really say now, a few articles are there, but that article that says if we have the negative consequences of applying the agreements to one of the parts or sectors of our economy, we have the right to take appropriate steps. We free trade contracts can't be broken, or we can, of course, but the procedure is that we have to cancel them six months earlier. So, if we want to do this, we have to do it today so that they stop applying after six months. It's the procedure provided for in these contracts. I don't want to talk here about the negative consequences of such a move. I would like to say that all the analyses make it very clear that the free trade agreements for BiH are significant, that they gave good results, didn't all give the same results, so when we look at the individual countries with which we signed, they also didn't give the same results when we look at the analytical sector, whether it was agriculture, as we said we had negative consequences, where we immediately said that these negative consequences should be resolved and that we should do the part of the job, which will ease it, and that we are looking at the free trade agreements themselves in general, they gave the expected results. Here, I wouldn't start with, I know you'll have a lot to add, sure I'll be back another time for the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10771	I thank Minister Doki, I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Dr Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10772	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, allow me, before I speak what I thought I should say today, to ask a few questions before that to Mr. Minister, or the Council of Ministers, so that I may be able to better determine myself later, and that, at any rate, I may refer some suggestions myself, concerning this subject. We, indeed, have a small problem today, not only that that colleague Hadžiahmetović spoke about the difference between protection and incentives, but we have a small problem which, objectively point of the agenda, such as the minister with the right and make in the presentation is an attempt to attack two segments. One segment is the current-economic social situation in BiH, on which we received one presentation, and the other segment is a reference to the protection of domestic production or call whatever you want. Let me remind you, the direct cause for this urgent conversation was what is being prepared from the 1.1 next year, which is the application or some modified application of the agreement. I would also like to remind you that the resolution was directed by the SDS MPs' Club, which, conditionally speaking, did not receive the majority support at that time, respecting the fact that today we will have a debate that we are having and should lead. I would also like to remind you that two weeks ago, the SDP MPs' club made a request that a debate be held first and foremost, which would be in the function of this second segment of today's agenda. I would like, before I speak more specifically about this, to have Mr. Minister or someone from the Council of Ministers answer a few questions, so that we can focus ourselves on making this session more productive. I must admit that I was particularly confused by this document, which we received in preparation for the session. First sentence of the document, but most literally says so. The very fact that the market is a bit of a reference to the need to lead a liberal foreign trade policy and further liberalisation of the external trade regime in the region should remain a BH priority, together with creating assumptions for the integration of the European Union market. It's the first sentence to define a generic goal, which we want to achieve. This sentence is in direct conflict with what the Council of Ministers made as a decision the other day. I'd like to clarify a few things in that light. Also, in this material, which we have received, which I think is a good basis for a serious debate, with all those removals that each of us can give in it, it also says that here is quoted as saying: "The reports of the European Commission since 18.11.2003, in which we are literally told that ensuring the free movement of goods, is one of the main objectives of the agreement to join the European Union under the future SIL Stabilisation Treaty of Association, it is necessary to gradually establish a free trade zone, with the Union, during the period to be set up by the negotiations. The free trade zone should comply with the relevant WTO provisions of BiH, I underline, must abolish any quantitative restrictions or measures, which have the same fact and gradually abolish the trade exchange tariff with the European Union. Customs must be able to monitor and protect the trade regime. So we got this 11 just over a month ago from the European Union. It has been asked of us from the highest political place in the international community in domestic structures to stand behind this, and what is now done is in direct contrast to what it says here. I haven't come to appreciate your decision yet. I want to clear things up for myself and other things first so we can move on. I also remind you that here in this document is a few good things I'll talk about later when I get answers from you. However, several very precise questions are raised here. What's cancelled, Mr. Minister? What's canceled? Who's been canceled? How'd it get canceled? Do the people we've given up on, if we've cancelled them by international regulations, norms, the oatmeals of international behavior, which binds us as a country, even if we didn't sign this contract, and especially when we signed it. The contract is a very clear course, how something is cancelled and prolonged. So, my question is, did the cancellation, I'm sorry that there is no foreign minister, was in line with international legal abuses? I expect someone from the Foreign Ministry to give us a more serious analysis, because this is not just a matter of salt trade. We will even come to this and ask whether you have, therefore, been informed by foreign governments, foreign countries, by television, or notified by diplomatic means and if they have been notified by diplomatic means, in what way it has been done, because I do not need members of the Council of Ministers to speak to MPs here what all the fines in it means. Also, I'm afraid that without the right answers to these questions, we won't be able to talk any further seriously. I'm asked the question, too, did you do some quantification and tell us what the quantification is? It is well known to you who are following it more than we who have a rare chance of hearing it from the mouth of measuring people, it is known that the average... customs in the countries of the region is about 12%, and that we have about 6.8%. By applying 40%, we're practically coming to, conditionally speaking, some 3 percent savings, which are now prolonging. It is clear as a day that the issue of the competitiveness of the Saran dairy or biscay or Herzegovica, these Lebanese dairy, the Grubian dairy, is not in three cents, but in something else. So, is there a quantification made and what it looks like? And even we can agree to talk about it in a different way in committees that will have a closed character, because these things in serious countries are discussed in a different way, without any politicizing, because I'm afraid we're going to get into very cloudy waters that I'm not sure how we're going to get out of. So my question is, was there a session of the Joint Committee in Article 12 held? Agreements, how would these problems be solved? If not maintained, there is a mechanism, also, by a contract specified, how to move on after such an attempt. I would, therefore, like to have these questions answered, so that we can then, I have very specific proposals and suggestions on short-term measures and long-term measures and some of them could, if we talk to clean categories. We could conclude today in the way we concluded on Mr Špirić's initiative, in line with the country's material opportunities for the Islamic Republic, Iran should be helped in the accident. ..very concrete measures. So there's got to be a concrete measure out of this. I'm not going to bid them now, what we can do in the domain of fitness sanitary protection, and how we can make conditional support for our production without it breaking the agreement. Because the breach of the agreement, I'm afraid, will open up some other dilemmas for us. I would also ask you this opportunity to share this presentation that I must confess and I am obliged to say it was for me a real refreshment, this first part. I sincerely hope that no one will accuse you that we have planted this presentation, because in 2002 it was very clear and precise that a year of this presentation should be a model for us to repeat it in economic terms by many parameters and I just to remind you that here, we saw this data and I am glad that it was presented by the Council of Ministers, that the rate of direct foreign investment was no more than doubled compared to any previous year in 2002, that the trading deficit was the smallest in 2002 at coverage of 49, some % of those yellow pillars we could see. We could also see that the salary in the Federation in 2002 was for the first time higher than that basket, while unfortunately in RS it was significantly below. And we've seen a lot of things here, and I thank you for that presentation. I hope that it will also be divided into members of the Presidency and other members of the government, the Council of Ministers and others, that we still discuss the same things. So my colleague Špiriu, I stopped here and I wouldn't be presenting at all the programme elements that should be adopted today and a proposal for conclusions from today's session, because I think it's very important that we hear the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10774	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija, Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović said, and I think it would be good if he had some debaters to call and that Minister Doko would have asked the Ministry to say them and he would answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10775	I thank the chairman, I must say that this presentation, which was quite good, convincing in some elements already known, has not answered the questions of the current economic social situation, therefore current, because this is a projection, this is a plan, what the governments in BiH are intending to do, so the Council of Ministers and Entity Government in one improvement of the economic social situation by 2008, and the current moment is still little with a time interval, and I hope that Mr. Ministar will agree. What I would like from your team to apostrophe, which is very important that we lead, which should be taken into account when we talk about the current economic social situation, that we, according to some indicators above all, are moving towards self-sustainability from the presentation in the GDP growth. So, relatively slow, or in a relatively short period, for these economic deadlines in key macroeconomic indicators, we will not depend on budgets or on any other funding from international donations, although most of what is called a donation is not a credit arrangement. 13 I would like to remind you that today the participation of foreign funds in our budgets is guest 3/4. I'm really not sure that we're moving towards self-sustainability as much as in the last year, so in 2003, the participation of foreign funds in the budgets increased, not because of the increase in donations and the rest, but because the reduced revenues from domestic sources in domestic budgets. That's the answer to that. Why reduced revenues in domestic budgets, why certain items in domestic incomes in budgets are falling, and why certain governments in such circumstances violate international rules, provisions and even those agreements they have committed themselves to. I will only remind you of a recent incident, which unfortunately this parliament has not responded even though a question has been asked for this speaker. When the RS prime minister, or the RS government, made a decision to increase the labour price, which directly clashed with the rules or policies to which the Council of Ministers had committed to communicate with the International Monetary Fund. And in his own time, he signed on to this, or the Memorandum of Economic Policy, the prime minister of the Council of Ministers, and today, the prime minister of the RS government. So it's about the same man. I just want to remind myself that such a decision has put the whole of BiH at risk, which does not mean that the danger is still removed. Furthermore, you mentioned that as BiH's success, we did not record inflation, more significant inflation. What I think is important to mention, which has been missed in your statement that it is mostly due to the Monetary Arrangement of Karnes and Bord, not because we are so capable. I want to mention here, or here to apostrophe more for one reason, what if we don't have tomorrow and we need to create ourselves to fit into normal monetary frameworks. Are we really on the road to self-sustainability? I apologize for looking at this, Mr. Doko in you, but here you are the only representative of the Council of Ministers, even though the complete story of the economic social situation concerns both the Council of Ministers completely and both entity governments complete. Furthermore, you mentioned fiscal deficits, or you gave one projection quite optimistic. What you lack, which is very important, is why we are in fact high fiscal deficits and what is our key problem, especially in the coming period, and this is about the current economic social situation, which is the issue of internal debt. There is no mention here of today's internal debt that exceeds almost the specific weight of the external debt framework. Which is why we have pensions like that, which is why we may have a absence of stimulation in domestic production and a lot of others. Furthermore in your presentation, I must really tell you, you've been giving a budget review of the statistics of the entity statistical institutions of the Central Bank, especially the International Monetary Fund. There was no state budget anywhere, although we know perfectly well that we are already quite here today, I hope we have circled the system of original funding of the state budget, and of state statistical sources. I especially mention this because it appears to us, especially as a problem in stimulating exports. And that's the work of the Statistics Agency and even domestic statistics. You mentioned the pension situation was critical. It moves within the framework of fiscal deficits, in the framework of a still unsatisfactory movement towards self-sustainability within the framework of change, or as the price of reform, or the price of transition and the multitude of others, which may have been missed, of course, it was not directly 14 of the topic, but it cannot be avoided in the analysis of the social situation in BiH what we do with pensions or what can possibly be done, in such a way as to reroute funds or stimulate the growth of income in domestic budgets that would shift to pension growth, as well as to growth, perhaps, or to stimulate domestic export production. Among the criteria of success, I would like to mention this in particular. You mentioned among other things, and this Parliament has done quite a lot of work, thus all of our ministers in the presentations of full mouths are talking about the europeanisation of BiH, and the less we all know that this is our goal and the better the sooner the better, etc. the conclusion of an association and association agreement. This is one of the very important items in the analysis of the move and the criticism of what the Council of Ministers has done in recent days, i.e. what BiH will pay for if the Council of Ministers does not change its decision urgently. I want to remind you, the EU is resting on four freedoms. Key freedoms, freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital. In a number of regional initiatives for Southeast Europe, which have been changing over the past 10 years, there have been more than other regions, 7 or 8, and there have been many more. The one that's being implemented here today, it's an initiative of the Stability Pact that's being painted in Sarajevo. Unfortunately, I must say that the Council of Ministers has violated the initiative, i.e. made such an incident in the international European course of BiH, by violating those decisions you have made regarding the Free Trade Agreement. Why, I'll talk about it later. You were talking about the Public Expenses Plan, I just want to mention that it would be good, that the Council of Ministers, regardless of what is not a direct original jurisdiction as it says in the Dayton Constitution, but also that the work to be done by the Council of Ministers, what can be done, or what should be done to increase revenue in budgets and state and entity and expenditure cuts, i.e. spending, which is, in the last year, therefore, an increase in expenditure in this year, which threatens to worsen the economic social situation in BiH. I want to draw attention to all those who aren't economists, that we'll probably be dealing with this subject again soon, but it'll be a lot harder for us. Furthermore, in this mechanism, I should like to say about which, within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, you have drawn attention, and as far as the measure is concerned, I am still referring to the stimulation of domestic production, and I would like to remind you now and give an explanation why I have sought to change the formulation of the agenda point. Today, when we talk about the protection mechanisms of domestic production, we mainly focus our attention and thought and story and instruments on imports, i.e. the reduction of imports or bans on imports, i.e. protectionist measures, etc. If we're talking about domestic production stimulation, the story goes to export. So, right where it's supposed to be, and that's what I want to remind you again in those two development strategies that exist import-substitutive and export-resistant focus on the story of exports is just part of an export-of-resistive development strategy like the Bosnian Herzegovina. This was partly seen today from the presentation, and you will see when PRSP is fully presented, or development strategy. And the whole free trade agreements, that is, the whole concept that the EU co-ordinated in the South East European region, with trade liberalisation, were to be made possible, i.e. to open the door to export, and here we need to see what was done to stimulate exports, that is to say whether the contracts eventually gave the wrong results, 15 or whether they failed some of the findings in export-related projections or to turn the story, what has been done in the last year, to standardise domestic products that would open doors and not closed doors on other markets, including the EU market and neighbouring countries that are already acting or using EU standards, in order to make it impossible to import products from BiH on some basis. First of all, I'm thinking about products belonging to the primary scanner, to agriculture in the original, hence primary agricultural production and processing, which are already in the industry. Among other things, you mentioned the incentive of domestic production. Incentives, subsidies, etc. I would use the term more incentive, because subsidising production and subsidising exports has its price again. Unfortunately, we don't have any calculations here. Among other things, you mentioned that it was planned that the proceeds from excise duties on cigarettes were mainly aimed at encouraging domestic production. It's one segment, maybe one source of income. But what's crucial, which is why we have a problem today, which is why no one here will tell you, and that's what we've had for years the levies used in practice to stimulate primary agricultural production. These levies were abolished last year due to provisions of international trade, i.e. they were translated into customs tariffs. The purpose of the levies is to focus on stimulating domestic production, agricultural or export or stimulating indirect exports, and the funds from over-leather entities, i.e. entity budgets, have been spent for a completely different purpose. And that's what we need to talk about and open up here a story about who's guilty, which is why the levies weren't focused on what they had to be focused on, which is why our primary agricultural production was developing slower than the processing industry in the area or about agricultural production, and what we have today in the meat industry, in the dairy industry, or food industries, and we don't have adequate primary agricultural production. Next, my colleague Ivanić, I hope you will not deconcentrate Minister Dok, because this one, it concerns as much as you, as much as the Ministry of Foreign Trade. What I want to say in particular, is about the move made by the Council of Ministers. First with the violation of the Stability Pact that was born here in Sarajevo, what you did with that decision, that is, what the Council of Ministers did with that decision. Today there is a world expression of norms and standards. This is particularly true for the EU, so there are European norms and European standards. Norms are a framework, and standards are a rule of conduct. We have violated the norm and standard here, or the Council of Ministers has violated that decision. The norms bound by the provisions of international law, which I would like to remind myself that the interred and the Constitution of BiH are called upon in its preamble to comply with the provisions of international law and standards which are not binding, but whether you act in accordance with standards or not, are qualified by the world. What was done at a breach of the norm. The Vienna Convention, among other things, provides for a procedure for the conclusion and modification of international contracts. Prolonging or suspension of the Free Trade Treaty, at all costs that we will pay in the region, due to misdirecting to the story of imports, not exporting and stimulating domestic production, among other things, we have violated the provisions of the Vienna Convention, because suspension or temporary concerns deadlines that concern not only BiH but all the countries in the region that have signed contracts, bilateral free trade contracts one between themselves. 16 I would like to remind you that through the Stability Pact initiative, so far it has been realised, that is, BiH has undertaken commitments in three initiatives, by signing three Memorandums. One concerns trade liberalisation, and that relates to these bilateral agreements, the other concerns energy. You signed a memo in Greece a few days ago concerning gas and gas, and the third one concerns an investment that unfortunately has not yet moved away in its realization. So, in the first round in realisation, BiH has unilaterally, in addition to the rules of international law and provisions, and even those provisions that were defined in the bilateral agreement itself, made an international legal incident. I have to say it here, for this speaker, and I want to remind you that this Parliament has ratified the agreements individually. It has therefore ratified them in those provisions in which they were signed and any changes should have passed the procedure even if there were arguments to be changed, the procedure which the agreements and the International Law prescribes, i.e. agreements, should have been defined, and this concerns both deadlines and suspensions or selective application, etc. I want to warn you of the consequences of this act of yours. First, with the International Law in breach of the provisions, with the emphasis on the Stability Pact initiative, BiH has lost its argument or if you do not annul that decision by 01 January, it will lose the argument that tomorrow it requires the application of the Agreement at the port of Ploče. Here's why I'm talking. Both foreign signatories signed the International Treaty. One side has even ratified it, the other side is looking for a change and ratification. With such an act, and with such a decision, the Council of Ministers and the violation of the provisions of International Law, which we give for the rights and arguments to all those who qualify us as Bandustan, in conduct and everything else, we have lost the power of the international law on those contracts and on those agreements where all the arguments of the International Law were on BiH's side. And I want to draw attention to more foreign ministers to consider the consequences of the international and legal consequences of the Council of Ministers' decisions in BiH. And on top of that, I'd like to suggest that the whole story still goes back to stimulating domestic production. We are answering the question whether these contracts, if they are imports and exports and they are related to the external trade component, were bad from the export position, and I would like to remind you that the asymmetric contracts that BiH had with Croatia 4 years ago, i.e. 3 years ago and 2 years ago, were consistent when they were signed, immediately opened the door to export BH products to that market without any barriers. The barriers were related to the other side of the contract and the gradual stripping. Secondly, where funds have been spent in agricultural production and protests, perhaps justifiable producer protests, i.e. processing in certain segments of industry and agricultural producers, where the funds and proceeds of the levies, which have been blended into budget registers and spent for other purposes, have been spent. If they're gone to the pensioners, if they've gone socially endangered, if they've gone to the fighters, then maybe it's justifiable. But let me, I know they're not. So they did not go to the purpose they were meant to leave, nor did they go to those purposes that would possibly improve the social situation in BiH. And thirdly, when we get answers to these questions, what can we do now, because I also want to draw attention to the Council of Ministers and especially to colleagues and colleagues in the 17 Parliament, that we will deal very quickly with this problem, but in conditions where we cannot speak with argument, or with the language of arguments to talk. In many of the bad moves you have made under the international and legal position of BiH, and the deterioration of the economic and social situation in BiH, and the distance from the self-sustainability that you mentioned today as the goal. I remind you that, among other things, you made a decision a month ago suspending import duties on customs duties. Skimming law? So you cut revenue into budgets and entities and the state budget that could have been used to stimulate production and exports. Among other things, I'm not talking about legal repercussion, that by the Council of Ministers' decision you changed the Customs Policy and Customs Tariff Act, as an integral part of all this. I have warned this speaker three times that the Council of Ministers has amended the law by means of a sublaw. If it has legal coverage, in any country in the world, I apologize to all of you. There's more lawyers here than I do, or more lawyers who know right than I do. I'm sorry, I've talked a little bit sometimes with an emotional charge, but I really want to warn you about the seriousness of the situation. Especially to the repercussions of decisions made by the Council of Ministers on all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10776	I would like to thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Kragulj and Novaković and Martin Raguž and Moranjkić and Avdić. I would only beg, so I won't take anyone's word for it, but to take care of the length of the discussion. I understand that the subject is such that it cannot be spoken briefly, too briefly, but that we respect the Rules of Procedure and I ask the speakers to keep an eye on the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10777	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, so I think that if a decision on the suspension was made or I don't know what was called, that is, if such a decision was discussed at the Council of Ministers, which has already been discussed, that it is practically just an answer to what was happening at the border. A block of borders, so to speak, is not the answer to what we asked today to discuss here in this House. In fact, this material that was offered, it practically gives possible direction of action to improve in the next period of exports. We agree that exports in the function of protecting domestic production, i.e. increasing and encouraging domestic production, but here these are just this, possible directions that will not, which are not concrete measures of what in the next period, or what people expect us to discuss here today. If it is already in question, and it is mainly these two agreements, Croatia's Free Trade Agreement with Croatia and the Free Trade Agreement with Montenegro. From this data we've received here, it can be determined that four times we're making larger imports. It is generally about the protection of domestic production, the prevention of any reduction in imports, the increase in exports, etc. We have imports from other countries besides this, because 4 times larger than imports from these two countries, therefore the question is whether we are, we are jeopardising our production by 18 imports from these two countries, or by imports at all, or we are jeopardising our production because we are practically not producing and we do not have to the greatest extent at this moment to protect anything. I say that first of all, when it comes to the aggregate sector. Under the aggregate sector, I mean agriculture and the food industry. In agriculture, we can't expect this now, that privatisation will take place etc. 96% of the economy, as far as I know 10 and 15 years ago, was in the hands of small agricultural producers. From this he lives practically today, based his existence on 2/3 people etc. And that's the area where the fastest can be put into function and the hardest situation. What's this about? This is precisely about finding measures in the direction of these strategic directions, i.e. on the line of these strategic directions that will enable the promotion of production. It's the only way we can protect domestic production, ensure that we have domestic production and equalize possible, make some kind of better balance on imports and exports, especially in this area. Not to mention that we have opportunities and we should implement what's not a problem, a law on quality control of imported goods. Because often when importing certain products is done, we should probably apply some analysis, when determining the age of rocks, etc., in order to determine when it is this product, from which period it is, etc. It's really famous and often you get with it and in public media bars. I think that at the same time we should train the institutions for the certification of goods, because it is also one of the obstacles that we cannot have access to the foreign market to our goods. But what is certain, what is expected of us, is to show where and how, or how, to point to concrete measures, which will already have an effect in the following year. People expect that in the coming year, given the economic exhaustion, given that this, entirely and in the increasingly neglected situation, agricultural production is expected to be able to start production at least in the spring, which is under a large questionnaire, etc. I know that it will also be said that someone will stand up that this is not on the authority of the Council of Ministers, and I know that it is not all in the power of the Council of Ministers, but it is in the power of the Council of Ministers and the governments of entities, and I think that this plan should coordinate certain activities, i.e. by coordinating activities, to bring about what is possible in the next period, what we can have in the next year as a measure of which the people will have effects, or what this, based on which some encouragement will be created, in order to even enter the spring seed, which is very important. I think for that, however, no matter what, because of the lack of funds in the budgets, because of this one, the lack of funds, etc. that there is, however, an opportunity for this to be discussed on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, etc. that there is a possibility, there is an assumption that a certain grant fund, a particular incentive fund, with other specific measures, can nevertheless adopt quality measures that can provide an incentive for production in the coming period. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10778	Thank you, Mr. Kragulj, for your word, Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10779	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I had a reserve as you know of this session at all, that is, this item of the agenda, formulated in this way. 19 In fact, my reserve was primarily due to the breadth of the topic that was to be discussed here today, and it was shown here that the first few discussions that we are really going to be discussing this for a long time today and that we are not going to be able to draw any more significant conclusions. For what? Well, first of all, because of the second reserve I had, which is the jurisdiction of individual institutions at the level of BiH and entities, i.e. a fully clearly defined competence in this area, especially in the area of aggregates. And in that sense, the Council of Ministers gave the only possible material. Therefore, one concerning the promotion of exports, or foreign trade, or what is in its jurisdiction. I expected today, that the proposer of this agenda would come up with a proposal for conclusions, which we would have held to debate and determine which of these conclusions are in the background of what I just said, which are not. I shall immediately say that I will not vote for any conclusion imposing on any Council of Ministers for which he is not in charge, and also not on any conclusion which requires any entity governments. Because we, we're not in charge of that. I expected further, that the former foreign trade minister, here, would also come up with some concrete proposals and conclusions, not only with criticism of the materials we received. That's what she would expect, given that in this area she should know a little bit more than we do or, say, me, to be specific. I expected it from the deputy minister from the last call, but Mr Kragulj said quite clearly, therefore, that some jurisdiction means he too has fenced himself from it and said that the powers of the Council of Ministers are one, and that the competencies of entity governments are quite another. When I have the conclusions of what I've been talking about, so the proposer of this agenda, I can then get involved in this debate and see what's real and what's not and then I'll take the chair, probably or maybe call the word. What I can now and from this position, and from this point of view, the only thing I can suggest, as a conclusion, is to order the Council of Ministers to, in cooperation or whenever we want with entity governments, come up with a joint document that will enable, therefore, certain measures and protection and stimulation in this area to be taken. Back to the level of jurisdiction. That's the only reason I can vote right now. I hope that we will not drag this session through the wild debates until tonight, and that we will indeed make concrete proposals of conclusions to help people who expect us to help them. But of course, again, I say everything in accordance with certain legal frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10780	Thank you, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10781	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respected representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, I will accept the suggestion that we should sort of coordinate this, the time of the presentation by making sure that a lot of this has already been said, that we have received one piece of information and that this is the first time that we have opened 20 of this topic more seriously in this home. But I can't agree with those who think we haven't guessed, I think we've hit absolutely, and it's time for the state parliament to deal with the issue of the current economic and social situation, because as we see the situation and situation in BiH, especially when it comes to people's life prospects, it's not the most brilliant and we can't, like the aunts, push our head into the sand, but we have to if we're responsible for the authority of any segment to face that question. Also with all the respect for Mr. Novaković's discussion, and his approach that goes in a positive sense that we can't do this, because it's such jurisdiction and it's absolutely his right and the argument that can always be used, I also want to say that such a position is the legislative executive authority and the key limit why BiH can't make it more serious... and the time is this, that responsible people face that truth. It's a fake. I am not advocating here any solution, but I am talking about the Pact and gentlemen is the real danger of BiH collapse, not in terms of it will survive as an institution and as a state, but as an internal state where we will react every day to adhoc, depending on who will prevent the border, which structure and which social population, which dimension, which we will only respond to by trying to put out the fire without being able to have a macro strategy and not just a macro strategy, but an instrument by which we will implement them. And that's why I don't want to use the occasion here today, and I would have it based on the arguments that this exposure and the measures set out by the Council are really in one critical way, and that I resent a lot. This is objectively due to such a dissensive state of relations in BiH, the inability to conduct a firm and responsible policy and then within such a fluid and undefined space, we have today this situation that we still have no answer to the question of how this contract has been suspended. It doesn't matter that I signed him, uh, I'm not emotionally attached to him at all. I know that the contract could not be signed for 4 years and that some people contributed to signing the loading as the first Free Trade Treaty and that it cannot be seen in light of exclusively negative consensus. On the contrary, there are many more reasons for the positive valorisation of the contract, since exports from BiH to the Republic of Croatia have increased several times, even 10 times, and we are talking about export stimulation here. How will we stimulate exports if we unilaterally as much as I have information, let it be denied me because it is the reputation of this Parliament, which has ratified the Treaty without exploiting the modalities set out in Articles 27 and 31 that provide for bilateral contacts, written communication, expert teams and the Joint Committee for the Implementation of this Agreement, which I believe that when the arguments presented here are objectively held, that part of our production is likely to be accepted. And postpone common, bilaterally and not to go to anyone's expense, neither BiH, nor Croatia, but to build neither Serbia-Montenegro, but to build a positive communication in the region and deal with open issues. I cannot stand behind such moves that are neither in accordance with international law nor good practice. I'm not saying that they're not justified, but the way we're supposed to get into the game must really be at one level if we want to legitimize ourselves that tomorrow we want to get into these integrations. We talk about it every day. The second thing here is well noted that in this document that we have received, these are strategic directions in the management of foreign trade and support that are absolutely well orderly and I do not see that behind which one of us should be anything controversial from this liberal foreign trade policy, to the reduction of the trade deficit, the acceleration of BiH's economic development, the strengthening of the quality and competitiveness of domestic production, the 21st promotion of foreign investment here and the accelerated integration of BiH into the EU and the VTO. We do not have another practical step of this Council of Ministers to achieve these objectives. This is a review of things and I, I cannot accept that this is something that we should be satisfied with today as an entry into the debate in this House at least it's my personal assessment. Why am I saying this, because as we speak, the largest possible and strategic exporters of BiH have been questioned, their existence, gentlemen, and we don't have a certain government of the state here at all, which means tomorrow to shut down production in Aluminium in Mostar. Exporting $160 million, this year neatly paid all the dajajbs to the state, at all levels, in full amount. A feasibility study showing a comparative advantage and the possibility to invest in the development of the whole of BiH and the region in the next year, hire and double the amount. We're talking stories here so for who? For whom, gentlemen? Do we have an attitude about that? And we say this, that it's a matter of business, not politics, let's not kid ourselves, but it's responsible to say here that it's pure politics. This also violates the contracts signed and tell me if you have any indication of a letter from the Federal Government of the Republic of Germany, that they are in danger, all their investments towards BiH. Do you have any indication about that? Tell her if we want to isolate ourselves from the whole world with this kind of approach and then say that we're all to blame, but we're not. Let us all get serious together, I'm taking part of my responsibility here, and I'm starting as a man who represents one space, one region that can be revived, and that by the year, 2,000 people can be hired, regardless of religion, nation, race and sex, to deploy regionally and open up a perspective for us. Let's stimulate these people. These are the objectives of this policy that you have set here. Let us promote them, let us have firm views behind them and let them be deceived. I am, of course, looking at this issue in the context of BiH's competitive and comparative advantages here, because you made it yourself to be a metal industry, that it's a tree, that it's a textile, that it's food, that it's electricity. It can be made a package. Neither of the rings in that series nor the miners, nor mines, shall be left out of that one cycle. And let's not let each other's unconfronted things, like the production of energy processing and everything else. Let's show some seriousness here sometime. So this is what I think if we're responsible for the government, only by indicating the opening of this issue, and for me personally, this is just the beginning. If we are responsible for dealing with all the issues that mean life for all the people in BiH. Let's have, in addition to these things that concern the Ex-Catedra approach, practical steps of the year. What the answer to this level is responsible for the Council of Ministers, for this entity government, means that we gentlemen have no answer. So the aggregate is in the entity, which it is, I'm not slowing it down. But get some state to suspend the Treaty and we'll move on. You state do it for us, and we'll keep our politics going, is that what that means. Or we'll harmonize relationships and run politics. And as long as we fight against each other here and spend our energy to destroy another, not create a new value and a whole, we'll be gentlemen in this situation. It's a reality. And let's not attack those initiatives that are well-intentioned and that say that we are limited by this constitutional law, we are absolutely limited and we are not going to make any serious step. At least that's my personal opinion, while we're so organized and organized and so untransparently run politics. It is time for a break-up and clear policy and for everyone's responsibility to be determined and otherwise believe it then here and the question of the parliamentary majority and 22 relations in this Parliament will increasingly open up, and I think it's time that we are, therefore, convulsing and looking for solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10782	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž, Mr. Moranjkić answered his word. Ladies and gentlemen, I think if there are any questions, I've said if there are any questions to the Minister that people ask them, that the ministar doesn't go out okay, that he doesn't go out again, that we protect the ministar from going out every time behind every speaker, but to exhaust the parliamentary debate. Then we'll have the ministar's address. We'll see to it, there may be more need for this debate. Some answers can today, some may not, because if we had an answer to everything, that would be fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10783	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow MPs and MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today I have imagined speaking as an businessman, and a businessman in the field of agricultural production, and only then as an MP of this house. So I prepared myself, but the letter that we received before this House by Mr. President, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, clouded my own imagined concept of what today as a businessman and an MP in the direction that we defined the subject of speaking. As a result, I will not as a proposed measure you are parties that are lacking hard and policy and state in order to do some things, do and direct them in this area called agricultural production. I'm going to give up on that, and I'm going to talk a little bit shorter so that I can meet a surrogate like this on the agenda that's been intertwined with two practical issues and two points. We all know, and here we are that today's topic has been forced by parliamentary issues and the requested resolution and the letter, the first letter of the SDP, and the resolution requested by the SDS Club, and I am adding a tractor to the revolution that happened at that time, unfortunately, is not the product of one programme and planning work of this Parliament because it is being taken away from it that it is not the problem in its jurisdiction. I disagree, I fully agree with Mr Raguž, who says that we, as a state Parliament, must not put our heads in the sand and on this hot topic of life to raise our hands and say that is the problem of the entity or the problem of the canton or anyone else. We're not allowed to build on this, so I'm going to take the right to say something, no matter what, such a finding. We can't, this is my remark that I want to say loudly that we act so as to wait for certain things to escalate and paralyze certain functions of the state, and then try to stop it by ad hoc solutions, and even some say and solve it. After a tractor revolution, an extension of three months, if anyone thinks it's a solution, I say behind this pay phone loudly say it's a delusion, a failure or a cheating on myself. We haven't been able for three years, three years to prepare ourselves for the fact of those trade contracts that are due to take effect in three days. And in three months to do that, it's... Normally, farmers as the most patient conglomerate in this country have come to an end. We all know it, and we used to stick our heads in the sand when the communals, the ones in school, the ones in health care, the ones in the police, the pensioners, etc. etc. And there were 23 farmers in the end. So we got to the peasant rebellion which was a feature of once a feudal society, and that's what's being transferred to today. The truth of today's objective situation in the economy, and especially in agriculture that should have been the subject of this thematic conference of Parliament today, and it has been turned away, I have already said in advance what is objectively difficult about the impact of the war, the effects of the criminal conduct of privatisation and kidnapping, the effects of organised crime, the impact of the work of the poorly-led state policy, regardless of what I say to the states, I consider to be from that lowest segment of the local community to the top of the state, the effect of the interest of the environment that works in its concept and the impact of the non-planous race for conditions for entering world and European integration, such as VTO. The normal state in which we have found ourselves is that we are now running soundly to achieve certain conditions that dictate these associations as a condition in the EU and other integrations, but we are not prepared to welcome that entry and this very solution, and it is normal that we are given what is happening. Especially here, I must point out that in today's economic life of this country, a particular lobby, and in particular trade, unfortunately I have to say the disturbances that lead to a situation like this in this country. We, I don't know if this is a reaction, then let someone just twist, Mr. Chairman. (enhanced microphone) And he's responding, good, 'cause I didn't hear Mr. Chairman. Okay. And normally, their action leads to that imbalance when it comes to imports, i.e. exports ranging from 1:4 to 1:5, and this is a pestilence to this country and does not guarantee it a bright future if it continues. With this action, we will totally destroy domestic production, and I wonder if we continue with that trend what we will do in a year and where we will meet. Are we going to turn completely to the state of food and further import into this country, and we have educated our business behavior and the entire population to rely on what is no longer in the interest of working to produce, but rather on such measures as strikes being pressed and getting money. That education is a grief to this country, but that's how it behaves. I was prepared to continue with the agricultural production, I'll give it up. I have 13 measures that I have proposed that are necessary, and if this country thinks in that area to do something about it. I will refer to the document that came directly to us in front of this, this Parliament, it is very important to me, and I do not know what purpose it should serve. Does anyone say that he went through parliamentary procedure, or that there are really studio thinking, observations and suggestions to make something happen, and then I get these two distractions, those two things? Because now that we've welcomed this material on the table, and we're discussing it, of course it's wrong, but I'm going to make a certain comment on that, too. The material is studio-made by me, however, there are certain shortcomings. I wouldn't be here, 'cause I'd stall, say a lot. I will write it down and instruct the ministry gentlemen to see the remarks I have made as a businessman, as a citizen and as an MP in this House. But when it comes to goals, it is said to reduce the trade deficit first. We all know that. He says the level of exports must rise, and the level of exports must fall. We know, but we do, and that's where we stop, that's where we associate with Titov, that window has to fall tonight. The truth about that window of Titus's has fallen. And are we going to bring down what we say with a certain extension of the proposed measures and a thread called free trade in this state where the country is now, I don't think we're going to find a solution. Because comparing us to Hungary and some countries in the environment, I think in 24 of this time, maybe in someone else, but in this time it's not appropriate, and I'm seeing it as a comparison of eggs and apples. And I think that if we are satisfied with that, we will settle for a formality that says the material has passed, that we voted, that Parliament has accepted, and life will go the way it goes. When it comes to the situation that's said in a certain way here, I don't think I see any practical solutions. We have certain privileges that we've been given. But I'm asking, I'm thinking about the environment, but I'm asking myself and you gentlemen, so why aren't we exporting? Why aren't we exporting? Because that's our goal. It's a Đaba of time to write to us, and the patient's dying. The recipes stick into the pockets, and he breathes out. Why? I don't see one of the studio approaches, so I can figure out why it is. No matter what our privileges are, we have certain privileges in these people. It practically has to come out here. And these tables that were given, I numbered them as Table 1, on page 7, so Table 2 at the bottom of page 7. The first table I comment on is that in the Federation there is 32% coverage of exports by import, or imports by export, that it is in Republika Srpska 24, that it is in District 3. You know what this picture is? This is a picture of a gray economy and a life of smuggling. I'm saying that's it. No matter how she puts herself here. I don't have time to elaborate, and I have proof that that's the way it is, and I think there's something I should do about it. The table on page 8. This is devastating. From the zero item above, where it says – animals, meat, etc. I've lined up as a long-time businessman and a business acquaintance, I work in the structures of a reverse chamber, I don't work, I'm present, I claim that the first item must be 90%, the second 70, the third 95, the fourth 50, the fifth 50, the fourth in a row here is 90. When I add up and I find the middle 65% must be if we're going to help. Please, we're talking nice about the wood industry where we're just exporting the debalance that's being achieved. Well, that's not how people work. It doesn't work that way and this has to worry the authorities about whether they're going to stay on this or whether the state has to intervene to hit someone at the end, some lobbies with a hand on the table and say, stop going to waste. In this context, I have looked further at these things and seen when it comes to further liberalisation of foreign trade, I propose to the Council of Ministers not to say it preferably, but exclusively insists on asymmetric contracts. Gentlemen, our exporter, when he crosses the border either across Sava, across the Drina and somewhere else, encounters such obstacles that stop breath and wit, and then we strengthen those barriers with paperwork and then he gives up and whoever exports it, and we destroy it and there's nothing to export. This down here to help poverty. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We get used to our people, it's an ad hoc solution that should stop in a month's time, not being a permanent permanent item that we solve this status of poverty and money by extorting strikes – that's not the solution. Since Mr. Chairman is speeding me up and I'm going to speed up, I'm going to flip a few pages, which I have comments on, but here on page 11 says - to review the existing customs tariff regime especially for strategic industrial branches. Please add agricultural production, because the country where it is not there is no stabilisation. The truth is, no country has ever been rich in it, but without it, it's never had a stable condition. She's the basis from which everything goes forward. 25 And that's where you'd stop. You'd stay, all these comments, lots and lots of them. I will see to it that I deliver in writing, and I will ask the chairman to return the topic of agriculture to the benches of this House once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10784	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give my word to Mr. Sejo Avdić, Dr. Avdić, let's make a deal. Since there are a lot of debates, we need to have the House of Peoples behind us, because the Commission has agreed to the law. Can we limit the discussion to five minutes? I'm begging you. Let's limit it to five minutes to make it. Not everyone has to use five minutes to keep it from happening again. Here, let's try to get this session to take an hour to give the people's home a chance to do their part of the job. So please don't vote, but here. We'll be in touch in five minutes. Who's up for this proposal? Come on, please, let's be expedient. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? - Two abstentions. I realize we've adopted this conclusion, discussion for five minutes. The word is from Dr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. Have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10785	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I will ultimately reduce this exposure to fundamental matters concerning today's agenda. The first nobility is an objective material that is today in front of us, is not and does not correspond to the point of the agenda, what we have imagined and simply predicted for today's debate. This means the current economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina with measures to normally protect domestic production. In this context, it is certain that the material is useful and simply provides opportunities to use analytical approaches, tables and everything else, but objectively it is not what is the answer to the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prolonging the application of the Free Trade Agreement with our neighbours in the next three months. But they don't solve anything for three months. Three months are under pressure from social rebellion and unrest and in this context what the Council of Ministers can do in three months. And besides what this Parliament can do in three months. So it really is one temptation, especially for the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the aspect of what seems to be in terms of prolonging the Free Trade Agreement over the next three months. So I'd ask PISP first means that it simply says who was doing this material, which is an inter-entity expert group, that we have the authors of materials and how much money was spent on this material? We funded this PISP project for 3-4 years with millions of marks in Bosnia and Herzegovina's pocket, and in that context, I think it's correct to get an answer to these questions. 26 So what is an inter-entity expert group and how much money has been spent on this material with a basic message objectively import was a strategy for the economic development of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not for the promotion of domestic production, not for the protection of domestic production, not for the promotion of exports? And in that sense, no wonder we're in a difficult situation like this. The objective economic patriotism is today still a mental noun and an unknown simple dimension of economic policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I propose a conclusion, Mr. Chairman - we need it in the next three months, or in the next month we need a project, whatever you want to call it on a programme of emergency economic measures to encourage domestic production with an emphasis on agriculture and the food industry. That's what we need. So these measures, which will in part harmonize the high degree of social dissatisfaction, first of all this category, simply industry, and in this sense, we certainly need a document like this before the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Let me just say two illustrative examples, to shorten this discussion, as it seems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the third month of this year, one company from Tuzla Detergent Dita, which is one of the main producers of detergents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, sent to the Council of Ministers and Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Materials – a proposal to launch a preliminary procedure to introduce measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports of powdery detergents for wider consumption and industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina. She didn't get an answer from this industry until today. This industry is capacitated, dimensional to settle the market, you will not trust me with two Bosnia and Herzegovina. How many places do you think Bosnia and Herzegovina from its production uses only 20% capacity and more exports than it places on the domestic market. Believe it or not? 20% means capacity use, 20%. More exports than it places on the domestic market. Such a relationship is simply Bosnia and Herzegovina towards domestic production. Do you need another comment? You don't have to. I think it is simply necessary for the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respecting Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, professor of the Faculty of Economics, to respect our ways towards the VTO, but people cannot just do so if the EC protects the import of wine, beef and other products from excessive imports. The EC protects and prescribes simple contingents of imports of this, so what do we just allow ourselves this kind of luxury and this kind of freedom? So the domestic factory is exhale, and on the other side we import over 55 million we give to imports of dusty detergents into Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10786	Please, Dr. Avdić, let's stick to the decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10787	Here in the end, I didn't want a replica, this will give you a special time. Objectively, the truth works and simply harmonizes this political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would suggest not to politicise the objective supply of electricity by Bosnia and Herzegovina's Elektroprivreda to DEBIS, and DEBIS to Aluminium. Let us let the economists and economic criteria harmonize prices of 27 electricity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into account the 25 EUR that charges Aluminium per megabat hour of electricity, and taking into account the same firm in the Tuzla pool that pays the same electricity at 34 EUR per megabat hour of electricity. Taking iron that also pays 34 euros per megabat hour of electricity. Which means these prices need to be harmonised. The incentive to provide exports from other sources, not mines, Elektroprivreda, and I don't know which other companies. So it is quite different to redecorate the economic policy strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and harmonize these relations, simple electricity deliveries and even electricity prices policy that are present in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if I tell you that, you don't need another comment. Companies are blocked in a Tuzla pool with high electricity prices of EUR 34 per megabat hour of electricity. Semiurethane chemistry,...chemistry, soda, coke, iron, etc. etc. Thus, electricity prices should be harmonised in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in this context, large consumers, special consumers should be placed in the same plane. And it would not be good to further politicise this, while the more electricity prices on the foreign market are where and where else, electricity exports by EUR 40 to Slovenia, exports by EUR 36 simply to the Swiss company, etc. etc. Which means it would be good to objectively calm down and not objectively politicize this problem of delivering electricity to DEBIS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10788	We thank Dr. Avdić. I'm begging you, you can't take your own time to replicate the speeches. We made a five-minute deal. It's not a replica, but here, let's take care of the deal. Mrs. Seada Palavrić has a word, so Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10789	Dear colleagues and colleagues, and I will begin my presentation with the Aluminium question. I don't think that question really needs to be politicized. The price of electricity must be economical, as it is for Agro commercial, as it is for DIT, for POLIHEM, it must be for Aluminijum. In addition, let us ask ourselves what price, at which cost the Elektroprivreda Herceg Bosnia would give electricity to aluminum. Also, I mean, I'm very pleased with the material that was delivered to us. I think I especially appreciate that this material was ready, so it shouldn't have been adhoc, but obviously someone is working on these issues intensively. What I miss about processing is the strategic direction of leading foreign trade and supporting exports. I would bring here, add a boost to domestic production. Now whether it's a foreign trade ministry issue or not, but it is the Council of Ministers. When it comes to criticising the implementation of the agreement with Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, I would like to remind myself that alone, only the Council of Ministers in the 28th introduction says further liberalisation of the external trade regime in the region should become BiH's priority along with creating assumptions for EU market integration. Therefore, it is clear to the Council of Ministers that the three-month prolonging is only one falsifying measure and that objectives such as reducing the trade deficit, speeding up the country's economic development, strengthening the quality and competitiveness of domestic production, stimulating inflows from foreign investment, speeding up BiH's integration into the EU and the World Trade Organisation, are targets, not giving up on the Free Trade Agreement. What I'm missing in the material, but maybe, maybe it's not even crucial we haven't dealt with the past. I would like to know what has been done in the past three and more years since these agreements were signed, to prepare domestic production for the application of these agreements. So we had a nice time exporting zero figures, no customs, but now that we're supposed to import it like that, we're not ready. Why aren't we in the mood, where are the funds we could make, etc. Furthermore, I would like to refer to a statement that we cannot talk here about what is not the authority of BiH institutions. I want us all to understand, that citizens of BiH wherever we live, in BiH whether Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Tuzla, Mostar, Sarajevo is quite irrelevant, want a better life, want a better standard. It is not until we understand that only through the BiH state can we participate in an external trade exchange and create better conditions. So, let's not continue to lock ourselves in the towers and speak with what is BiH's jurisdiction or is not BiH's jurisdiction to be and to ensure the same conditions for all citizens in the entire territory. And this is one of those conditions or maybe priority, because it's about the survival of people. In the material I've seen the proposal for conclusions, who wants to see them, they're obvious. I particularly single out and appreciate that all future laws are in line with the requirements of Aki communitre, and that these adopted ones are also harmonized, and that they are working to promote exports in BiH's terms, because my exports are not available, so there are no domestic products to be spent in BiH either. Just look at the promotion of domestic products and we'll be clear. I think we have 70% of foreign product ads, and maybe about 30% of domestic product ads. I saw a list of proposed laws, proposed measures. I think it's not enough laws just to adopt. They must be implemented as soon as possible and especially when it comes to laws which, both underlaws and institutions, create preconditions for exporting agricultural products to this preferential European market and exporting dedicated production. I think it's too long for four years to create such conditions. This, therefore, has to be achieved in at least half a year when it comes to agricultural products, and when it comes to domestic production, it is not enough to say purchases domestically. It may not even be desirable under the conditions of liberalisation. We can appeal to the population, but my concrete proposal that, in conclusion with this debate, that, in the Law on Budget Implementation at all levels in BiH, public procurement laws are explicitly prescribed, I hope that this is not the opposite of VTO rules and liberalisation, that they, that budget users must use domestic products and domestic services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10790	Thank you, Mr. Križanović, for his word, come in. And the replica has Mr. Raguž. I ask you not to use the replicas to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10791	Ivrolo going to be very brief, given that on two occasions here's how much I've just seen it said there's no need to politicise here with the questions of Aluminijum. I don't think I've given any argument that this term can be introduced into the game of politicising the way I've put the issue here, and I reject it, so I've politicised the issue, but I've simply asked the question of how we're going to stimulate exports and this one, to determine BiH's export strategy, if we don't have a current indication that BiH's largest exporter is in front of a possible prison. It's the facts. Secondly, I mentioned the violation of the International Treaty of this, when it comes to this supply of electricity, nothing else. Why this contract is not respected while the price is determined afterwards. As it will be determined, I haven't mentioned any of the electrical industries. That's what I mean about all the electricity and this and the same relationship. So, don't let the arguments we're making here, then switch to someone else's politicizing, and in fact, it comes out without arguments, it wants to move this one to that field. This is clearly about the very serious, economic issue of the strategic issue and the definition of the country to which the gentlemen will go. And now I'd like to get on with it, and here I don't want to use this pay phone any further, so I'll just cut it short. I don't want to further elaborate this argument, I don't think it was my intention to prefer any option, but to point to the problems and necessity of showing those who lead the macro and each other's policies, and to trace the goals that are set here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10792	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž, Mr Križanović has answered his word. I would ask that we create an atmosphere to bring this session to 1st. This isn't the end of the story. God Bog today's session of this House will depend on well-being in the country.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10793	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I will stick to the available five minutes. But before I say anything about this, I want to say something in principle. Unlike some colleagues, I believe that this Parliament should have such a relationship with all the problems in BiH, that no serious problem can be said that it is not in its jurisdiction. Especially when it comes to today's topic, the economic, social current situation in BiH, with special reference to the protection of domestic production. If we avoid such significant topics, then we will be able to solve and face the consequences over and over again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10794	I would ask depending on you, MPs I would ask here that all take care of. Please listen to my colleague Križanović, I ask for a little patience, it is very difficult to warn each MP. Then I'd hear from you any second. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10795	Thank you, so unless we discuss key problems in BiH in due time, then we will be able to face the consequences, with the consequences of blockades expressed in blockades, in strikes, in protests, and most strangely in all of this, that when certain authorities in BiH find certain solutions at all levels after exhausting negotiations, waste of time, energy. Therefore, it is important that we discuss the right things in due time and that I say that we are looking for a political agreement to resolve them. You see, we have received a good presentation today in this topic if this could be said in the economic and social situation in BiH and we have received materials from the Ministry of Foreign Trade on the subject and when you look at it, there is nothing to object to. These materials are very professional and they're to say at the academic level. I wonder if BiH citizens are following this debate today, then they'll think the Parliamentarians are at the seminar here today. From all this, we have not figured out at all, nor have we given any assessment of the real situation in BiH. What our economy is, what it generates as a social state in BiH and what we have as certain authorities, what measures we have, what concepts we have to overcome this. I fully support the BiH development strategy, but it is a strategy. She's long-term. Do we know anything we're going to do tomorrow to make it clear to both refugees and workers and pensioners and teachers and doctors and I don't know who, what we're planning to do today in 2-3 months, what's waiting for us. So we lack certain operational plans to address these issues. So that I don't take too much of my right to comment now, I'm criticizing certain allegations from these materials, which I don't think would be productive either. I am deeply convinced that here I will run and as one of the possible conclusions, that the BiH authorities, indeed, and it is high time to respect the serious economic and social situation in BiH, must have a plan for short-term measures to overcome this situation. It is high time that, as part of many strategies, they find concrete and define what are the economic branches that make BiH recognizable, which are the natural resources that enable BiH to alleviate this social situation in a very short period of time. So, without the pretense to make a final decision, I'm running for office.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10796	I'd beg, here's the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10797	Just three things, please, one of the conclusions today is that within three months, short-term system measures are taken to improve agricultural production, energy production and wood processing, as our strategic branches, where we have natural resources, the possibility of reducing unemployment, ensuring a sustainable return to the state, reviving the village and reducing the pressure on the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10798	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. I beg you, here's a word from Dr. Lagumdžija. There aren't many debaters yet, but let's not open new debates, let's get this 31 to 1 so the House of Peoples can sit in the same room again, and we have another agenda point. That's why my request is, please, I didn't notice, no problem. I'm sorry I didn't. Maybe it was my fault. May I have your attention, please, to bring this session to an end?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10799	First, Mr. Chairman, I will abide by the conclusion that the discussion does not last longer than five minutes, and I will discuss for five minutes, expressing the least said surprise that this subject has become nervous, that we are limited to five minutes. And then let me, since you've come to the conclusion that five minutes are being discussed, let me draw conclusions when I speak, that you don't interrupt me. I'll take them. I'll probably go in six minutes with them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10800	I'd only pray for conclusions. All those in writing, so there won't be an interpretation again, and there's no problem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10801	Well, you haven't made a decision on how many conclusions can be proposed, so you can come out after my discussion with the proposal that even the conclusions can't be proposed for more than 3 minutes. I want to remind you, so first of all, I want to find out with regret that I didn't get an answer from the ministar, I believe that his failure to answer confirmed my suspicion that what was done was done in a completely inappropriate way. I would also like to say that, out of all the non-response, I have concluded that what has been done in the last few days, has been done contrary to internationally established standards of conduct in international and legal contracts signed by this country, including the statement by the heads of state and government of Seki in Belgrade on 09 April of this year, which was attended by the country's full leadership, when it has been agreed that the development of a network of bilateral free trade agreement for the purpose of free trade, in Southeast Europe, must be further developed, none of which will give way. I would also like to conclude that the table of measures that we have been given here is very often contradictory, clashing with themselves, and what is devastating for me is that those laws that are listed there, which should be adopted as a carrier of activity, are listed in the Council of Ministers and even in the laws that we need to adopt, are not mentioned in the Parliamentary Assembly, which speaks of the relationship to the Parliamentary Assembly. Such a thing to come to Parliament with 70 and change measures, without Parliament being mentioned in the adoption of the law, it speaks enough about it and where we are. I would also like to conclude that free trade agreements are not a threat of employment in BiH, but rather a lack of, above all, trade policy, incentive development measures, especially in agriculture, and the underdevelopment of 32 countries' institutions responsible for implementing the agreement in the spirit of the rules adopted in international trade. I would also like to say that in addition to the problems we have not inciting domestic production, it is because in this country, thanks to the lack of adequate institutions and policies importing junk, which are eaten by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the relevant research that we have even received here shows that around 40% of the imported food in BiH does not meet the minimum quality standards that cannot be met, so that these goods cannot be sold anywhere but here. That's why I'm taking the opportunity not to use these two minutes and go straight to conclusions. The first conclusion, within three months, should be expected from the Council of Ministers to take the following steps: To carry out an analysis of the impact of imports in recent years, domestic production and to take the necessary measures to limit imports which choke the perspective of domestic production. The second conclusion is that an analysis of the prices of agricultural products and the assessment of the extent to which the elements of dumped action are present and the elements of stimulation by the importing countries, the exporting producer pardon, in trade with BiH, so that compensation duties can be applied to eliminate negative impacts on domestic production. Very clear and precisely defined. To translate into a well understood language, we are entered here by products that are subsidized in their countries and on the basis of such subsidized to say mechanisms, having elements of the dumped price here, and making competition with domestic products in a unhealthy way, and we can protect ourselves against it, not by cancelling the contract and that you have made the relevant decisions that you have made these 10 days alone. This is where you'd be celebrated by domestic producers who wanted to block the road. Conclusion No 3 to change customs tariffs in all those items that restrict the stimulation of domestic production, of repro material, raw materials and others. Conclusion 4, to present Parliament with a strategy for the development of agriculture, as a framework setting out development objectives and priorities to support encouraging development measures in the context of the permitted measures envisaged by the global trade organisation. Under 5, to provide funds to stimulate agricultural production through budgets, I consciously say budgets of 3% of the social product. You can figure out how much that is. Conclusion No 6, it is urgent to harmonise the laws in the field of veterinary and fitness with EU regulations and offer it to this Parliament. 7. Ensure the ability of standardisation and certification services in accordance with EU rules, as well as to issue certificates of origin of goods. Conclusion No. 7, until such a mechanism is established, foreign goods should be subject to the same mechanisms. 33 Conclusion No 8, to ensure the ability of the Veterinary Authority to issue certificates of conformity of agricultural products with EU rules, that is, conclusion number 8. This is all I'm saying about three months, the next three months. After 3 months we need to get us information on why it couldn't be done in 3 months, so let's see what we do in the next 3. Conclusion 10 provides the necessary resources in the budgets to address the priorities listed here under the already existing single economic space building programmes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is funded by the EU, i.e. to ask for financial support from the countries with which the free trade agreement is concluded. First of all, with the Republic of Croatia, because esteemed colleagues know that the Republic of Croatia has offered services of goodwill, to solve these things together, to help us. There's no reason not to use it. Conclusion number 11, in the next few days, make a decision to set up specialized crossings for the entry of goods from which I'm talking, I'm talking about food goods. So, in the next few days, make a decision on the formation of specialized crossings, at which appropriate controls would be carried out that we do not now have at all crossings. If the Parliament's session had been closed, I would have talked about this in more detail, since it didn't, I don't want to. I think you know what I'm talking about. Conclusion 12, adopt rules on the quality and training of relevant companies, for standards that must be met. Conclusion No 13, prohibiting importing intended goods with an inadequately gone time to be determined by you. To translate into daily language, here imports of goods that soon expire, and here a place to go to EU dumps from countries with which we have a free trade agreement end up in the bellies of these people, as almost poisoned goods. It can be done without any breach of the contract. Conclusion No. 14, introduce the proper date-making knowingly, I do not speak excises, nor levies, nor customs, to those goods that are competitive in our production in which, our production that is defined by the appropriate policy, which are subsidized in their countries in a way that we are not able to do now. In plain language, this conclusion says, and these mechanisms can be established, we do nothing against this agreement, that those goods that come in here are competitive with our production that we want to stimulate which has proved to be successful.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10802	I'd like to ask Dr. Lagumdžija if he can bring him in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10803	Conclusion number 14, I only have 14 conclusions left. 34 Conclusion number 15, I thought this should be clarified because this is a very good conclusion from fellow Špirić, because it would solve many of the problems that people have today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10804	I think it's only good that there are fewer conclusions
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10805	I wish there were fewer, too, Martina. Believe me, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10806	Please, let's hear from each other, so we don't get any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10807	Clearly, Martin's party trait is not the conclusion I propose. Conclusion number 15, to urgently introduce appropriate contingents based on a clearly defined strategy of analysis that precedes this. Conclusion number 16, I believe that this Parliament should condemn any attempt to act, any institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina against the international agreements ratified by this Parliament. The next conclusion, as well as the next seven, I'm going to skip for one simple reason why I see too much anxiety over such an important question. And I move on to the last conclusions that I have had here, if some of them adopt any opportunities to talk about what I'm missing, it is necessary to extend the application of certain contractual obligations exclusively in accordance with the international and legal norms defined by this agreement. I refer you ministers to the members of the 12th,13th,14th,15st particular member of the 23rd, then to Article 27,28,31, and finally to Article 32, which you said seemed to have done something about it. And three conclusions for the end, from the domain of export support, to adopt the law by 01.03 at the latest on an export pardon, the Law on the Export Credit Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to transfer the IGA to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency. Why am I knowingly extracting this from your table, because you put a deadline that's the first half of 2004, I think it should be done in the next two months, there's no reason not to do that. Also, by 01.03., legally free from customs duties for importing new machinery and equipment, those not manufactured in BiH. In two months, you can do it. Then set up a fund to assist export-oriented companies to obtain appropriate standards, ISO standards, EU standards, and I propose that in the next few days, the mandate of the Commission be appropriate, that, on the basis of the proposals made here, with the relevant ministries, ministers and the Council of Ministers, emergency consultations are held in order to define priority actions related to what we have talked about today, and that in the next two days, if possible, the Commission is in charge, I think that these are commissions from Articles 35, 26 and 32. The Commission for Foreign Trade and the Commission for Finance and Budget, that these two committees with the heads of the Council of Ministers who are in charge of this, try to systematise this, in order to prevent the Council of Ministers from causing chaos in the next 3 days that will not lead to anything. And lastly, to report on the implementation of these conclusions by the Parliament by 01.03 next year.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10808	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Fatima Leho came forward for the word. I'd like to ask the conclusions if it's possible in writing, so I can read them. I would pray, I asked for a written conclusion, if you want to plead, and if you want to read a magnetogram, then we'll be behind the new year, because it'll take time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10809	MPs, MPs, I have a problem with the theory, so there won't be much analysis or conclusions. I will only briefly limit my discussion to what I consider to be a priority in today's material that we are considering. In a country like BiH currently, where 20% of the population lives in poverty and 50% on the edge of poverty, I think agricultural production and the stimulation of agricultural production, together with privatisation in the sector and return, is the first step in economic reform of BiH. The information we've received shows that we're exporting raw aluminium, electrical energy, and we've moved a little from the 19th century. However, there is a cut-off structure, raw skin, missing only coal, where we are still at the level of the 19th century. We import milk and dairy products, meat and meat products and everything else why we have natural resources in the country. Where's the problem? The problem is listed on page 10. Regardless of the perceived need for greater support for domestic agricultural production, limited budget funds do not make it possible. It means that funds that stimulate the recovery of agricultural production in BiH are limited to poor and controlled budgets. Analyzing the financial flows in BiH, seeking where we can as BiH's legislative body, means as part of BiH's sovereign intervention at this time. My thoughts have reached the Central Bank. Namely, when we adopted the final account, the Central Bank's report last year, on the 2.5 billion marks we have abroad, on the ino accounts as a reserve for the conversion mark, that as provided for by Karens and Bordeaux, we had 78 about 78 million interest. Part of the funds from that interest went to the Central Bank administration and the costs produced there in the year being spoken of, but 58 million were allocated to a special reserve and those funds are located abroad. In developed countries, these funds are partly used for certain incentives in the economy. That's why my proposal is next. 36 I would like to refer a question from this speaker, our governor, Mr Piter Nikol and the Management Committee, whether the time has come in their opinion, that BiH, according to this final account, means 2003, because it will now be working in January, February, to go with one amendment to amend the Central Bank Act and that we will have these funds as savings and that we will charge, not on foreign accounts, but to bring it into the country and to give it as a stimulant for reviving agricultural production. It's a normal thing in developed countries. With this, I'm not asking for credit activity to be introduced into the Central Bank, but I'm thinking about forming a fund at the state level. We could work this out later. Is it as Mr. Novaković suggests, two funds so that if we had or if we had thirteen, it's irrelevant to me at this point. It's important to me to see if the conditions are mature, and I think they are. We are not jeopardizing Karens and Bord, these funds are immobilized and the worst sovereign of any state, would not keep interest funds outside, if his people live, there are parts of BiH at the cave level. Look where the cattlemen came back. They don't have any rooms. They have small herds, or they only have to survive. Therefore, areas of Kupres, Drvara, Glamoc, Grahova, Bosnian Posavina area, is it up to me to finish
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10810	If possible
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10811	Here, the Bosnian Posavina areas, along the Drina area, are waiting for money to be invested in agricultural production. So my question is concrete, we have the funds we no longer want to stand outside, are not necessary for the convergence of the mark and the efficient functioning of the Central Bank, can we now, in agreement with the Central Bank, go now in January to the Central Bank Act and that these funds are still imputable to us constantly enter for 2004, etc. It means that a continuous fund is formed that will cultivate and revive agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10812	I thank my colleague Fatima Leho. Dr Muratović answered the words. I'd like to pray we're close to closing the list of debaters.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10813	The Honorable Chairman, respected MPs, because of the time limit, I will not talk about my proposals, about the protection of domestic production, those who read know that I published most of my proposals and they are available to anyone who wants to read. I first propose that we adopt in our conclusions the Council of Ministers' decision to postpone the Treaty's entry into force by three months and two, to adopt an action plan, foreign trade and support exports. That's two first conclusions. Because this plan contains all the measures I have heard here and others so far, because the Council of Ministers' decision is contained in Article 13. A contract which states in the light of the particular sensitivity of agricultural production, if there is a serious disturbance on the market of one side, etc. The affected party, the party affected by the contract... will begin 37 consultations to overcome the situation and find a solution and now a fundamental part, the last sentence of that member. In the expectation of such a solution, the affected Contracting Party may take the measures it deems necessary. The Council of Ministers considers these measures necessary. I don't think it had any other way out, but to apply that Article 13 and call on it. As for stimulating domestic production, I said that I talked about it and wrote it, but let me tell you, these solutions are very simple. It is necessary to simply reduce obligations for producers and to increase obligations for importers. That's the whole point of that problem. Secondly, institutions should be created to allow the export of domestic products by international standards. That's the third thing. However, if you look at the supermarket, you will see that 75% of the products in the supermarket are from imports. Is the major problem importing or domestic production and employment? The key problem of our economy is domestic production and employment. The country's key social problem is domestic production and employment. And that's where we need to concentrate, and that's what we do. In need of time, to remind you that the Council of Ministers and all governments is at all levels in a situation where they are gripped by two things. On the one hand, the international community, with its demands and so-called expertise and on the other hand various social groups protesting and seeking certain solutions. Let me just tell you a few of the key pressures that have been caused by the wrong decisions of the international community that bring production and investment into this position. First, remember that Arizona was formed on the three-way between the two states. Billions of goods have entered Arizona. It was the capital of foreign lobbies present in this country that did this, and they hired the poor to build those huts and to resell those goods for seven years. After 7 years, when we have established a system that will ban them from ruling the border and border service and who will be appointed to the customs administration and tax administration and what is called the single military customs control, etc. Then they sold Arizona to a foreign investor. Secondly, I read in the latest AMF material this sentence -- unemployment probably exceeds 20%, and one World Bank expert here, but I now have to say the so-called expert, wrote in a list of quasi professional arguments that unemployment is 16% here. I'm asking you all to wonder what that nebulosis is for. Is there anyone, any group that knows anything from the economy, that can't establish one simple test and read statistics on employees as many of us as we have unemployed in this country. We have to wonder what it's for, that unemployment here is 20% or 16%. When privatisation started and the first part of the international community was successfully realised, illegal rules suspended the laws and stopped privatisation. Privatization stands still today. She has made an illegal decision that even these modest funds of privatisation cannot be spent, but are still in accounts today. They take care of what they think is necessary and are forced, entities are forced to spend it in the 38 consumer zone. This means that they compensate for budget deficits and because they need to go into investment in the development of production to stimulate producers etc. For a long time, an internal debt has been advertised as our main problem here and 5 billion are mentioned. Look out, it's orthodox nonsense. We had one internal debt. It's a foreign exchange. And that debt must be paid back to the citizens. And this second state-owned company owes it to the state-owned company because he was in defense delivering goods and services to him, etc. And that's how the five billion got together. And now they're completely encouraging foreign investors by interpreting around the world that we have 5 billion internal debt. What debt, who owes whom. Even here someone says 12 billion are mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10814	I'd beg if it's possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10815	No, please, our 2.5 billion-mark foreign exchange reserves are being held outside. Here he boasts, the world boasts that we've done a great job on the banking system, and we've left the foreign reserve outside. Instead of guaranteeing our banks these foreign exchange reserves investment in development and not spending these funds on development, as some of them say Muratović said there should be spent on development. It's idiotism interpreting my statement. I believe that these funds should be used for guarantees, and state reserves are only for guarantees. To guarantee this new banking system that it gives development funds that will solve most of the social problems. It is constantly insisting that we keep the balance of imports of exports, budgets, etc. Look, it's also economic nonsense. What a balance in the postwar country. The postwar country is developing on imbalances, not on balance. Well, it's a barrel of economics, you know, never here has the international community called on a famous world economic name to come, to hear his opinion here, but to bring quasi experts to interpret how this country's development should go and how to solve its economic and social problems. We're the only country in the world that doesn't charge flyovers across its country. That's what the international community lobbies did. Ask who it is that can make such a decision, that the only country we are is forgiving 40-50 million of our neighbors to control flights over their country. Now they're installing laws by these quasi experts. Whenever a new law comes out on him, it says that we have to have a foreign expert for five or four years to manage our resources, our finances, our own, etc. So, what do I mean by that? Not only are laws being passed in favor of lobbys, but people are still trying to slow down our progress, so that they can keep one such state, one such management of this country and its economy for as long as possible. And finally, since I'm very limited, I have to say that of the domestic things that are necessary is that it is essential to make a political consensus on key things. Whether we continue or not to increase revenue in the high-tariff budget or on the basis of taxes on production and agriculture, etc. Whether we use all the money we have or we let it out of the country and 39 invest in the country's development and whether we use our financial potential. These are key issues to resolve the crisis, so all we need is a political consensus and nothing more, believe me. And that, but that consensus should be on the state level, between the entities and us and the foreigners here who, as you can see, are fundamentally directing these flows and pressing those poor people in government with their demands and their decisions that don't allow them to think for themselves in general and to realize the basic economic laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10816	Nikola Špirić came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10817	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished guests of the Council of Ministers, I think today we have had a good debate on an important topic and I think Parliament must be in constant shape and in constant condition to keep the Council of Ministers when this problem is at stake. And for that I think there have been a lot of good conclusions today, there is no need to mention any of them specifically from Dr. Lagumdžija and Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, by Martin Raguž here is Dr. Muratović, so all the debaters have contributed to how to respond to this complex problem. And it is good that the Council of Ministers came out with material and simply with a special emphasis on the economic social situation, which could suggest that the Council of Ministers and governments of entities speed up activities to adopt the BiH Development Strategy, which will also be the subject of debate within the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. But if we weren't simply voting on certain conclusions, sometimes with narrow party interests, I would say good debate today, I suggest that the competent Commission, and this is what the Commission has consulted my colleagues in the Foreign Trade College, taking into account the full debate and what Dr Lagumdžija was talking about, the stenogram and all the conclusions, try to come up with a joint proposal that we would adopt and forward to the Council of Ministers at the next meeting of Parliament and thus keep the Council of Ministers in line with these burning problems. God Bog there is a measure today that would solve all the problems in BiH, and it seems to me that such a measure cannot simply, that such a measure does not exist, we cannot bring it. I would therefore ask you and future debaters, there are only two, that if we can adopt this conclusion and get out of this position actively, so that the Joint Commission, having in mind all the proposals and conclusions, tries to sublime those conclusions and adopt them at the next session. Thank you very much. Dr. Lagumdžija, I assume he has a replica or a false quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10818	Respecting fellow Špirić, what you said by accepting such a finding of work, I would only think that it should be done in the next two days, that this committee with the heads of the Council of Ministers who were here, at least two foreign and foreign trade ministries, is preparing such a thing but regardless, I would just like to say 40 fellow Muratović has stated that Article 13 of this Agreement is the basis for making a decision that was made the other day. That's not true. Article 13 says literally, regardless of the provisions of this Treaty, and in particular Article 27, given the particular sensitivity of agricultural products, if imports of production originating in one Contracting Party which are worth concessions granted by this Treaty cause a serious disturbance in the market for the contracting party, all of this is satisfied, the affected party will immediately start consultations to find an appropriate solution. In the expectation of such a solution, the affected party may take measures. The measures may be taken in accordance with this Agreement, and it is not a measure to repeal this Agreement. The member writes in anticipation of such a solution the affected party may take the measures it deems necessary, point. Kolega Muratović, the agreement defined measures for members of 14, 15.18., 23., then 27., 28, 31., 32. there are defined measures. Neither of these measures, defined by this Article, is a suspension of the Agreement, as the suspension of the Agreement can only be made by a higher order act. The High Order Act is an appropriate international legal norms signed by this country and has ratified this Parliament. And don't play so casually with international law in this country. And I would really like to say, Mr. Špirić, by respecting your proposal, that also a guilty allegation is not all the measures and conclusions that I have stated contained in these documents, three conclusions re-referring here to Mr. Ministar and asking him to respect them in the next few days. Contigents, specialized crossings, repeat specialized crossings that will stop three of those goods for which we do not give subsidies to subsidise domestic production from these loads. That's three measures we can take a breath. And we'd be people more satisfied than we'd ever made a shere lie about ending this deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10819	Thank you, Doctor. Please stop. Calm down. I'm asking you to step into an active position when this complex problem is at stake. Please, you'll all get your business card, then you'll argue to me the possibility of talking half an hour about this and opening up from the beginning of the session. Come on, please. This is what we do. We do serious things. ________: [[No microphone turned on]] To my presentation, I didn't put this out at all, but I suggested, and I think it's right for those who say that the committee in charge, here's what Dr. Lagumdžija said. Within two days with the Council of Ministers, it tries to define what is called measures and what will benefit citizens on the basis of this debate. So I ask you, therefore, given everything people have said, not demeaning anyone's conclusion and suggestion. Now, if there's anyone out there right now that's gonna decompose for another half hour, I'm not gonna ban it, but I'm asking you to take this time. 41 First came Mrs. Azra Haddžiahmetović, then Sead Palavrić, then Momčilo Novaković, then Dr. Petar Kunić, and now we leave until tomorrow. What can I do?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10821	I agree with the Chairman's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10822	Can I have your patience, please? If anyone wants a break, they can look for it. He'll get a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10823	First of all, I agree with the chairman, i.e. the president's proposal that the Resorna Commission with the Resorna Ministry, make one proposal, one analysis and a proposal for conclusions for this Parliament. But I would like to remind you that today is December 29th, I am not sure that we will meet again by January 1st, when the Council of Ministers' decision comes into effect. I want to do so unless this Parliament declares itself on behalf of the Party Club for BiH, to inform the Commission that we will not and do not want to deal with it as part of this Parliament, the consequences that will arise as a result of the Council of Ministers' Decision and the application of 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10824	I thank my colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, Seada Palavrić and Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10825	With regard to Mr. Chairman's proposal, I can understand that it is necessary for those conclusions that are not clearly offered. However, I have made clear that the Law on Budget Implementation imposes a commitment that budgetary users can only use domestic products and domestic services. As far as I know, the Federal Budget is already 5th. The Federal Parliament's session is scheduled and monitored by the Budget Implementation Act. And why don't you vote on something that's quite mature to vote on, and if what's left remains, let's make a deal in two days or five days.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10826	Please, just let us understand each other. So there's been a lot of good suggestions here from all sides. Let us leave the Commission and the Resor ministry to the vote, and we will not just end the vote in three hours, from conclusion to conclusion. I ask you, let this Parliament leave at least at the end of the year, so appreciate everything you've said, a serious impression that we're doing this seriously. He asked for a colleague, Novaković, and no more debates, and Mr. Kunić, Mr. Živković reported long ago for discussion. I thought, I apologize these are 42 more replicas and Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, I thought you gave up. No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10827	Dear Chairman, I've only come out to strengthen or strengthen the presidency's proposal. In fact, only with a brief analysis of the proposal of conclusions, not by analysis, but by what Mr Lagumdžija said, I have found that this, 6 conclusions are already there in that material, that 4 are only new deadlines, i.e. otherwise defined, different deadlines, etc. that a number of new and different conclusions have been made here, and really if we get into this, then I'm afraid we won't be out for long. What I also don't think is good, I don't think it's good for the next two days to commit the Commission to work for the next two days. So I don't think that's necessary, to force it to be done in the next two days, but it needs to be done in the shortest time. So, in any case before the January session of Parliament, because I really don't see the need to define the Commission and the Ministry in the next two days, and then we wait for a session of Parliament for 20 days, where we will adopt those conclusions and wait 18 days for them to lie somewhere in drawers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10828	I thank my colleague Novaković. Is it Dr. Lagumdžija's replica? Come on, please, but for a moment, Mr. Živković has a lower discussion, so Mr. Kunić, then Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10829	Mr. Chairman, I really want to say something right now that I didn't think would be necessary to say. The Council of Ministers has made a decision on the find we have heard here and we have not heard correctly, to suspend the International Agreement that this Parliament has ratified. Please, that's the basic problem. And now you're telling me that two days later. He can't do it to a colleague, Novaković. As you do not understand, I do not understand whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs here will give us or the Minister of Foreign Trade an answer to the question, how you have informed the neighbouring countries that you will not do so since 1 January, in which way, by procedure, by which legal basis. That's what this is about. Well, in every country, I'm sorry this isn't a closed session to look at ourselves like a human being, and now I have to react like that. The Council of Ministers has done something that comes out of his ingenuity and has not solved anything, but has blurred the public's eyes. That is what this is about, and I therefore propose that the Commission not in two days, but right now, right now, in the follow-up to this, we sit down and discuss how this is done in the Commission. To have the Ministers come to tell us what they were doing, to give us documents, to tell us what they were told on the other side. And then to make the right decisions that will save the face of this country. We're going into something that's the way with a very uncertain future. We don't need that at all, let alone for a new year.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10830	Thank you, Dr. Živković has come forward for his word. I apologize to Dr. Živković, I thought we were having an argument, my mistake was, and in time I wrote down 43. He answered for the discussion a long time ago. Mrs Milićević gave up the discussion, and I thank you, of course, and I pray others that if there is a possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10831	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, with these replicas has been declassified, and I will say here, but I will not enter this part of the Council of Ministers' responsibility for what it has done and on which it has been found, it can be a special conclusion. I have long prepared a conclusion that may be more precise than what the chairman has proposed, and it is said - that the Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing a proposal, emergency measures to protect and stimulate agricultural production in BiH, and a proposal for a long-term strategy in foreign trade with a special emphasis on neighbouring countries. That's the conclusion that
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10832	I thank Dr Živković, this is also one of the conclusions that the Joint Commission will take into account. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10833	That I considered it meant that the Council of Ministers should submit this proposal, that the Commission should consider it and then submit it to this Parliament. And just one more minute. So one segment of what the Council of Ministers has presented to us here, the part relating to the PRSP where pensions are shown in the RS and the Federation of BiH, where extremely low pensions in the RS and one segment is also not respecting the House of Human Rights Decision on the way the citizens of BiH retire where they earned them. I think it is full of the mouth of this Parliament and individual parties on the constitutionality of the people, on civil rights and on what are ordinary human rights in BiH. And I think that if this topic is already in place, one conclusion that I suggest too could especially strengthen this initiative of ours. So, in order to reduce the poverty of individual categories in BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to find, as soon as possible, and in co-operation with entity governments, a way to consistently exercise the right to pay out pensions according to the place where they were made, and in light of the decisions already made by the House for Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10834	I thank Dr. Živković, Dr. Kunić. Thank you, and this conclusion will be given by the Commission the opportunity to consider.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10835	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I wanted to intervene on this proposal for a conclusion. I believe that there have been very useful suggestions here today, suggestions and indeed the right question has come to this 44 Parliament's agenda. I think he should have been here a long time ago. The Commission has debated this issue on several occasions, even coming to organise a round table, on this topic, because it is a complex topic and of course requires an overview of all aspects of the problem. But here, however, my colleague Lagumdžija asked a very serious question, which is a legal and political issue. Therefore, this Parliament must be manifested today. The Council of Ministers made a decision on the suspension, whether it had any legal basis for it. My guess is it's not. According to this, this parliament must say yes or no. To put aside the Council of Ministers' decision. So that's what we have to show ourselves about. And the other thing that matters to me is the question of discussion, the question of concise conclusions. In fact, we have a record that has been led and such proposals, so on the basis of the debate, the Executive Body of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolution Ministry, as an expert body, and the Commission will, in accordance with its powers, then the Commission will review these conclusions and, of course, if it has any objections to Parliament. So, I'd like you to accept that order of things. So, in that sense, the conclusions are going, not that the Commission is meeting in a day, two and now, yes, that the proposals concerning such a debate and in these issues which are indeed, indeed, perhaps the most important issue at the moment for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10836	I thank Dr. Kunić, Dr. Gligorić answered his word, and so did Mr. Potočnik. Please, if we can bring up a hearing, so I won't distract anyone to give up, but if it's possible, we can bring a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10837	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to say what others have said that I would not repeat, nor about the Council of Ministers material, I have exactly 7 measures or conclusions, but before I introduce you to this, I would like to say one sentence to Dr. Muratović, who spoke excellently, that it is a problem that scientific discussions and expert discussions take place outside BiH about BiH, about us, where we are determined to be incompetent, that we do not have the ability to manage the state, etc. Therefore, the problem is that we within Bosnia and Herzegovina are not able to open a scientific debate about us, our problems and to say the EU, the Council of Europe or other Euro-Atlantic associations what we are, rather than listen to scientific discussions about us where we are always bad guys. It is a problem that I hope someone will understand in BiH and start thinking differently within BiH. And of course, when we talk about this problem, about the Agreement on Free Trade, the problem is that when BiH signs it, according to the prescribed procedure, and when Parliament ratifys such contracts, which you have in the environment or outside this environment of a strong and capable state and their mechanisms, and you and you are supposed to be BiH as a state, as is Slovenia, or some other state that is developed, we are not. That's our problem and our mistake. We haven't come this far to implement this contract where we always become victims. And I won't go any further. 45 From the measures of aggregate policy, which can help develop our agriculture, in its competitive capacity, I believe that the protection of domestic production through the introduction of customs and preleminates, and the money from these activities is returned to primary production and the food industry. First conclusion. Second, to protect the domestic market through increased control of imported goods and thus to prevent corruption and the lobby that we have in BiH. Thirdly, the more urgent the laws on standards in production and imports so that our goods can be exported, means to adopt European standards. Fourth, make a production and consumption balance and stimulate it, not waste money in vain. Fifthly, by government means and institutions, to stimulate the production of eco-food, since we have an advantage over other, cheap labour, etc. Sixth, to form an agency for the popularization of its own consumption, as Slovenia has and showed excellent results. Seven, up 2.8% of the budget so far, raise to 10% and control, direct controlledly and use it for regression, oil, fertilizer seeds or encourage exporters through the production of milk, meat, fruit and vegetables. So I wanted to make a modest contribution to this discovery. If something is repeated, something that someone has said more accurately and better can be used. I would like to see this find of assistance in the overall review so that this problem will be tried systematically to solve and try in Parliament and help the Council of Ministers find the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10838	Mr. Moranjkić picked up the phone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10839	Dear gentlemen, the Council of Ministers swims between pressure from the international community, pressure from ruling parties, pressure from the economy. There is not enough power in the entire BiH territory and this way of work will leave the economy, because there is no vision or project to get out of the crisis. They'll leave politics on the street. And I think that this Parliament must today and now give its position to this decision made by the Council of Ministers, because the method of the street in a regulated state cannot achieve what is normal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10840	I thank Mr. Potočnik. We don't have any more debaters. I'm closing the debate, and ladies and gentlemen on the trail of what we've been talking about I have, therefore, a proposal for a conclusion. 46 The first, therefore, is the conclusion that the competent Commission for Foreign Trade, on the basis of a full debate today, a series of conclusions, tries to sublime this debate and propose to Parliament at the next meeting what would be our views, the views of Parliament that we have sent to the Council of Ministers. And regarding the Free Trade Agreement, I propose that this be the conclusion in which it says - that the Council of Ministers must base its activities on the provisions of the Free Trade Agreement urgently, to open bilateral activities on the plan so that BiH does not suffer any consequences, to put into an active position both the Council of Ministers and us as Parliament. I think this would be a compromise solution both on one and the other, and it would be a quality solution. So, that Parliament has a view on all the conclusions, and that the Council of Ministers is leading its activities on the basis of the agreement and opening bilateral contacts, that we would not have suffered the consequences as a country. Can we adopt these two conclusions? All, no, not so the Council of Ministers is working in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement and opening bilateral contacts, so BiH would not suffer the consequences. It means to open, we can't conclude otherwise, please. Who's in charge of these two conclusions? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. It was very difficult to find two conclusions that measure this one. I thank you for one tolerated and good debate. It seems to me that we've had a good debate and come to good conclusions. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The Commission's report on Thanksgiving, of course, I apologize to Minister Doki and my colleagues, Hurtić. We expect their contribution at the next session. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The Commission’s report on the achievement of agreement on the Law on indirect taxation. We have a written proposal. We have been informed that the Commission has reached an agreement. If there is a need, it says here that on behalf of the Commission, Mr Gligoric will refer to Parliament. If there is any need, Mr. Gligorić, there is only a short please. I beg you, you have been given the word to speak from the pay phone, and no, and please do not throw the MP, please bring in this session effectively if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10841	Ladies and gentlemen, after being as a committee for the alignment of the Law on an indirect taxation system and after coming out of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives in two texts of the law, these are actually two adopted laws, that it is easier for us to discuss, conditionally speaking. We're talking about amendments to both homes. We worked really correctly and in this way we achieved virtually 24 amendments, we achieved relatively quick consent, but the problem remained, and that is the regional centre. Because the House of Representatives proposed that the fifth centre be Brcko, and the House of Peoples remained in the position of the Council of Ministers, when the proposal was four centres without the regional centre of Brcko. The Commission has decided to accept this final decision that the Council of Ministers' proposal should be respected, and that the House of Representatives proposed by Brcko as the fifth centre, which is why we have asked for a solution and within that is to accept my proposal, which is that we are going with the proposal, there is also a consensus in the report, that the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, the Parliamentary Assembly as a whole accepts the Commission's proposal to look at economic indicators within the next 6 months, the economic justification of regional centres in the range of three, four, or five, and that, on the basis of economic parameters, the Committee of Ministers' House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, in order to go to amend and supplement the Law on indirect taxation. I also consider this important to tell you why, as a member of the Commission and in front of the House of Representatives, I asked for it because you made the decision and the fifth center. We are now as the Coordination Commission, the Commission from ad hoc from case to case as a technical commission that needs to solve something between two homes, according to our rules of procedure, think about this and my message that we are coming into one situation where, if a man votes against, it means if you do not reach a consensus, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can compromise any law in this country and how much reform he is and how important it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look, we're in this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10842	I ask you only to give the Commission's conclusions, and we know about the Rules of Procedure and the business opportunities.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10843	No, I want to say this because it could become an objective problem that a private opinion could endanger the meaning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional institutions. So in this case, we had the National Custodial of Republika Srpska, which conveys authority and we had under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina the Council of Ministers, as a constitutional institution that has spoken its own, not entering an institution that has spoken its own, not entering it well or badly, she said. We have a Parliamentary Assembly that, through its assembly majority, has said its own by general vote in both homes and entity voting. And now one man can show up and bring it all down. Thus, as a man who I was in executive and legislative power, 48
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10844	I ask you to give me a report from the Commission, not about yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10845	Wait a minute. It's okay. So these were the basic parameters in some way, the criteria that I handled, and I would ask you to accept the report in that direction and try to respect the profession without getting into a situation like politics in the meantime has made us a problem within Parliament. I therefore appeal to the Council of Ministers that they must take care of economic analyses and that this is why the House of Representatives can work easier. In this case, when politics got involved, we got four centres, instead of having three centres as a rational solution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-12-29-0.u10846	I thank Dr. Gligorić. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the vote. Who is it to accept the Commission's report? Who's in? I'm asking the Service to count. Who's in? Please raise your charts, this is definitely a vote on the law. Mr. Jovanović, are you voting? Yeah, yeah. You see the shy SDS lifts the green card. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Wait a minute, we'll have a report very soon. So of the 38 present, 28 for, versus 7, abstention 3. We're going to an entity vote. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? There's plenty of Muniba without you. How many from the RS? So 22 Federation, 5 Republika Srpska. I realize this law has definitely been passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your constructive work, for your tolerateable debate. 49 I would like to inform you that at two o'clock we organized a little cocktail in the hall downstairs for the MPs. I would ask that both MPs and each other at home be present to hang out with each other for a little while. We've been working hard and well. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 13.35 p.m.
