ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8319	Please take your seats. It's been 17 minutes since the appointment. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 14th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome, of course, the members of the Council of Ministers, who attend today's session, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE Mission, the European Union, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the Embassy in BiH, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the media and, of course, all others present today's session. I find that today's session is currently attended by 36 MPs. We expect another MP to enter the hall at any moment, so that it is 37 MPs, so that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has met the conditions for full-time work and full-time decision-making. Today's session is not attended by the following MPs: Mr Hasan Muratović, who is officially absent and is out of BiH, and it is possible today that during the session he joins us, Mr Abdulah Nakaš, who justified his present absence, Mr Nijaz Duraković, who is just entering the hall, so that today we will have 38 MPs at this time, so Mr Duraković is here and Mr Blagojević Mirko has announced his absence. So he justified his absence from today's session. So at this point, we have 38 MPs. Since no replacement from the Electoral Commission of BiH has arrived for the MP Paravac to whom the term of office has ceased in this parliament. So our current numerous condition is 41. Three MPs are missing. So, Mrs Blagojević, Muratović and Nakaš. So we have 38 MPs currently in the O.R. and we have conditions for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 2 We are in last session of the House, I would like to ask for a little attention only, a framework agreement on calling this session, with the intention of considering the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education. You received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. So this is the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH. Meanwhile, in the parliamentary procedure, an agreement between the United States and BiH on handover of the person to the International Criminal Court, which it is necessary, on approval for ratification, to be designated by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, also arrived on Tuesday (March 3rd). So both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In light of the deadlines needed for the Parliamentary Assembly to be visible, given earlier commitments, related to the absence of club presidents in the next two weeks and in the third week, the fourth week of October. The parliamentary delegation's obligations at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I propose and ask you to appreciate that today's session, so other than this item of the agenda, called the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, has another point called giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the handover of the person to the International Criminal Court. That would, therefore, be a draft agenda. I'm opening a hearing on a draft agenda. Here you go. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8320	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, fellow MPs, I have one dilemma first. I'm just checking to see if I got it right. The proposal for a daily agenda is, as I understand it, the draft agenda is the Framework Law, and the proposal of the chairman is to put it on the agenda and the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8321	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8322	The agreement is not, therefore, in the draft agenda, but rather the proposal of the chairman on which we will plead. Since this is how I understand it, I really want to say that I can respect and respect the importance and importance of the agreement between the US and BiH, but also, we only got that agreement a few days ago. The largest number of us had no party consultation on this agreement at all and, at this point, it could be very difficult to make a decision. Now, before I see it, really, the reason we're in a hurry to ratify, because we have more than 20 days left to give the U.S. 3 a clear view. That's why I'm putting the SDS position here, and we're not discussing this agreement today, but we're suggesting that this agreement be discussed suddenly by the session, which will be scheduled until the end of about.m. Of course, I fully understand that the House of Peoples must declare itself, but the House of Nations can also schedule its session, meaning the day after our session and declare this agreement. Thank you, my lady.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8323	I thank Mr. Novaković. Before I give my word to Mrs Palavrić, I will just say that, therefore, the 1st time until the Parliamentary Assembly is due to be manifested, regarding the approval of ratification for this agreement. The term of this home is, it seems to me that I have already said so in the opening part that the presidents of the Clubs of Members of this House from earlier, therefore, have a commitment, that in the next two weeks they are travelling to Dublin and in that period, of course, without the president of the clubs, it would not be possible and it would not be good to hold a session of this house, and then comes the fourth week of June, when a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is scheduled, when a Bosnian Herzegovic delegation travels, so, in my opinion, we, if we want to respond properly to our obligations, is actually today's session is an optimal time when we have to decide on that agreement and that, in fact, I have decided to propose this to the House. Of course, the House will declare this to be the second item of the agenda of today’s session. As much as an explanation. Mrs. Seada Palavrić is the president of the SDA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8324	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I join here on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club to propose that the second item of the agenda be the Agreement. In addition to this proposal, I would like to remind you that we have agreed that everything that the MPs receive before the session should be turned into the agenda, especially when it comes to agreements. So far, it's not like we leave any agreements aside if we get one. About the content of this understanding, we've had a chance to get to know each other for a year. And when it comes to procedural assumptions, therefore, that this agreement should be considered by the Foreign Affairs Commission and we can use established practice, we can take a break during the Dom meeting and the Commission can meet. So let's not leave room for politicizing, because the deadline ahead is very short. However we decide on this agreement, it is high time for us to decide and, if ratification is given, this agreement should be announced and it should enter into force on July 1st, and we, therefore, have a perfectly formal, legal and legitimate proposal from the BiH Presidency for ratification of the Agreement and we are obliged to decide on it. To conclude, on behalf of the Club, I suggest that it be classified as the 2nd item of the agenda. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8325	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Vinko Zorić, president of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8326	I welcome the chairman and all present in this Chamber, I will remember only our last sessions when I, at least twice, and can look at the stenogram, begged the chair to be thematic, to have only one item on the agenda, and this Framework Law on Education, and he reiterated to me at least twice that it would be so. Today, the situation, it wants to diverge a little bit over this very important law on basic and middle education of ad-hoc inclusion and another point, also very important on the agenda. My proposal on behalf of the HDZ-Democracy Club is that only the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education is being considered today. So, what we got in the invitation to this session, and yes, here, in particular on 12.06. we hold the next session at which we will ratify, in fact, where we will have on the agenda a ratification of the Agreement, which we have, whose materials I received just before the session. So I didn't get them maybe 15 minutes ago 10 hours ago. Why am I saying this? So the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot say June 6th we will not do anything until July 1st. So we say right now, we don't have another day's work until 1.07. And I'm the president of the Representatives' Club, and I'm not going to go to Ireland, because it wasn't an official call from our college and our home, but it was an invitation, I don't know any associations or the Irish Parliament... and we couldn't say whether we were going to go or not, but we could run, so if we were elected or not. The other thing, the week when our parliamentarians are in the Council of Europe, is nothing prevents us from working normally here, but I, in particular, suggest that we hold a session with this on June 12th and, if there are more materials with other points of the agenda to ratify, or we discuss the ratification of this agreement, because, then, if there are no 5-6 representatives of the clubs at this session, because there are 42 of us in this bill and I absolutely disagree that we are still until 1.07 that nothing, you understand anything conditional, but, therefore, there will be no sitting at home. Why shouldn't there be a House session, if 4-5 or 6 club presidents will be visiting Ireland. I think this is Mr. Chairman of a big three-week period that we don't have some kind of art. Today, I would like us to focus all our energy together towards the adoption of this important law, and we know that it is our obligation to discuss it well and leave this point for the next session. The proposal of the HDZ Club is, to do so, I repeat June 12th. So, in six days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8327	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Of course, I won't answer your remarks, but I can't say one comment to one comment. You said five, trying to divorce the law on education and debate over the law. I assure you that we have taken this issue seriously and responsibly. We understand the importance of this law. Our Constitutional and Legal Commission has taken this issue seriously and responsibly. If this also means something because of the obligations I have as chairman, I have reduced my obligations on the international agenda, I interrupted a visit two days earlier, I was only a day away and returned to BiH, just for the sake of the law. Believe me, we've directed all our energy according to that law and at the end of our minds, none of us here are divorcing things about that law. Here you go. Who wants to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8328	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed chairman, First of all, I would like to express my deep dissatisfaction that now, when we talk about the agenda and when it is clear to everyone that it is on the agenda, or whether it will be on the agenda of the proposal for a ratification of the agreement between the United States and BiH on the surrender of persons to the International Criminal Court, with great respect to the esteemed gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I express the deepest dissatisfaction that today is not present right now, now that we are talking about this to the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Foreign Affairs, and when I first realized that you have welcomed the members of the Presidency, I thought that I did not see it well, and now I have not heard you well, but the fact that even the members of the Presidency of whom this is in direct authority are supposed to be here today, or at least at the level of the Bureau, which in their division may be very much of BiH. I, indeed, cannot understand that in this way in this composition only as members of Parliament, we need to have a debate on this. That's one. Two. I want to say and give my little modest contribution to the debate on the addition of the agenda point that you, Mr. Chairman, have made and, if you'll excuse me, I want to run for another conclusion on the agenda, which has nothing to do with what you've just said. So first and related to the agreement between the US and BiH. I think it's necessary today to discuss this, the more I, as an MP here, have, to say the least, confusing materials in front of me. On 2.06, then, before, you must calculate for yourself how many days ago, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who says that the Council of Ministers has established a proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement, etc. It's not said at which session, it's just said that it's established a motion for a decision. I, as well as probably, saw BiH citizens last night in means of informing that yesterday was on the agenda again. Whether it's a proposal or a draft or not, I don't know what. So, in 2.06, the Council of Ministers informed the BiH Presidency and established a proposal for a decision on ratification, and then yesterday we see from the means of information that, again, it is practically discussed, as far as I can tell, is looking for some explanation of what it is. Stav, my personal position is known for this and our position as a political party, and when there's an opportunity we'll talk about it, but what I think now when we set up the agenda, 6 we should have a agenda point on which, at least, we'd be given information about this and get it off the agenda, which, apparently, exists now. Whether we're going to end it today or we're going to need a sequel, that power is another question, but it's evident that today should be at least as information to clarify what it's all about, which some say it's only the other day that they found out what it's about, so we might as well get a little bit of information about it. So much for the agenda point. However, Mr. Chairman, yesterday at the College one conclusion was adopted on our club's proposal to request information from the Council of Ministers concerning two things, related to the Bulldozer Commission and related to a list of 150 people, which are duly decided by the President of the United States on a common list. Since we already have experience to conclude something on both the House and the Rules of Procedure, I would only ask you to take us to the agenda today, to make sure that what we asked for yesterday can already be now that we know that it will be at the next session of Parliament. If we can't get that, then in the process we'd be eligible candidates to get relevant information about it, so much more time to explain what I mean by the Bulldozer Commission, for those who weren't present at the College and for those to explain what I mean under the list of 150 people. As for our proposal for information from the Council of Ministers regarding the Bulldozer Commission, I must say that we have already asked to discuss this in Parliament. Instead, we were informed by the means of informing that the stage of the Bulldozer Commission that we didn't know existed and that it had entered phase II, which we saw yesterday that it had begun to plant the garden of prosperity in the Museum, with full respect for the garden of prosperity and for these agricultural affairs, I, I really want to say, because agriculture is all one thing, I fear that we have entered a phase in which BiH institutions, first of all, this Parliament, has been fully moved from one, as those who plant and climb the baggers say, is important. We should know more about it. We have now entered a time at which, to this day, there was no debate in the BiH Parliament, and on our behalf, appropriate declarations are being signed. I don't need to tell you that, speaking of agriculture, the data from agriculture from the economy is catastrophic and that it's getting worse and worse. I don't need to tell you that the growth rate of industrial production is five times lower in the first four months than in the first four months of last year, that the trade deficit for the first four months is 30% higher than in the same period last year, that agricultural production at 70% of agricultural production from the same period last year, etc. So, I would ask you to chair this House to plead whether we will have anything to do with it or not, not to hold our lessons past it. And, uh, about a list of 150 famous. I have no intention of talking about it now, but it would be normal for Parliament to get adequate information about it, which is more so, as the foreign minister and the security minister both send different signals through the means of information about whether they have received and what they think they are doing and what this is all about. When I see that my colleague from Parliament, otherwise the 7 vice president of one of the ruling parties, has announced that today in the BiH Parliament, I will seek the shift of Hasan Čengić from my place, to remind you, in the means of information yesterday, you could read that my colleague from Parliament has announced that today I will be asking in Parliament to be on the list of 150 people removed from the position of the President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs of the House of the Peoples. So we started having a debate about it as colleagues from Parliament past Parliament, in a way that is inappropriate. I, therefore, want to inform my colleagues that I have no intention of seeking anyone's shift outside this house. Mr. Hasan Čengić is your choice and Mr. Hasan Čengić will be in the place where... that you are solving the relations you already have, such as you already have and do not ask the opposition to solve your problems. If you believe that people who cannot go to one of the Peace Implementation Council members and guarantee of the Peace Agreement should lead the country's international affairs, they are your face and not ours. Those who pass it on to us and those who seek it. So I want to let the public know that I'm not looking for a resignation today. I'm telling my colleagues who sent it to me through the papers, and if I were him, I'd go, and if I were you, I'd replace him, but I can't think of doing it, because I'm not him, nor am I in your place.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8329	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Please nice, I didn't want to intervene and, if the debate on the agenda lasted much longer than three minutes. I'd ask you, I've got Mr. Lagumdžija's watch, and I've got glasses, I can't see well, but when I put my glasses on, I can see very well. So, I'd like to ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The debate on the agenda is up to 3 minutes max. Who else wants to talk? I apologize, Mr. Nikola asked for a word after that, Milorad Živković, then Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, then Mr. Beriz Belkić. There, that's the order of the reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8330	Dear colleagues chairing, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will speak very briefly about the agenda, because we have defined this agenda at the previous session. So, I support that as the first item of the agenda, a debate is being held on the Framework Law on secondary and basic education. I also support the motion by the chairman, Mr Džaferović, that the 2nd item of the agenda be a debate on the ratification of the BiH-US Agreement, with what I would like to do by the second item of the agenda, here, indeed, to ensure the presence of members of the presidency, foreign ministers' minister and minister's board of directors who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, ratified this agreement. It would be good and for the sake of the importance of this agreement and the debate that we are going to have, I suppose, but in any case, I think it would be more of a shame if today after this debate, it wasn't a matter of the agenda, but that it would be and that we would plead on that point. 8 But, aware of what Mr Lagumdžija was talking about, I think that we as the third item of the agenda can be the conclusion that the first point of the next session is our position against the projects related to the Bulldozer Commission, because believe me, when I came from Strasbourg and when I heard that I was preparing a committee for the development of Igman, with the powers of the High Representative, then I wondered, really, what the State Parlment is for, and whether this High Representative appreciates that everyone is taking more care of this country than those chosen by the people in these elections, and I am afraid of one such event, creating some new institutions, which will be difficult to put out and taking responsibility, especially you can think, the commissions with the powers of the High Representative. This has not been seen in the world, and I think the charge is to send clear messages from the State Parliament's framework that we are ready to talk about everything and to deal with the development of every inch of this country and the Igman region, but I also support this position that we take the view that we will, as the first item of the agenda, be a statement on the information we should receive from the Minister of Security and the Council of Ministers, concerning a list defined by the US Congress. It is quite a serious thing and I think, unfortunately, all the authorities within BiH should have had the strength to make that list to deal with what is called the spread of organised crime and the highest state authorities, but, in any case, to discuss it. But I would like to ask today to dedicate our attention to these first points of the agenda, first and second, and to make one conclusion binding on all those who are obliged to inform Parliament so that they can hold a debate at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8331	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Milorad Živković. For all your warning, turn off your phones, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8332	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as my distinguished party colleague, Mr Špirić, said, indeed, it is not disputed that this item of the agenda should be a ratification of the contract and we do not see why it should be delayed. There was plenty of time, and we're just having a weird situation here, and we're having a dispute about why people in this position are even opening up a debate about it. The agreement was signed on 16 May by Slobodan Kovač, the minister of justice who is in the Council of Ministers. The agreement was in the presidency, which also makes people of position. We only see that, in fact, running away from responsibility, moving from one point to another is a very important part of the agenda, where, obviously, no one can take responsibility. It is also not clear to me who should be here to defend this text of the agreement, whether it is the chairman, whether it is the foreign minister, whether it is the minister of justice who signed it, or whether it is members of the presidency. We will vote to be a part of the agenda, but I would ask you to chair that someone at that point in the agenda be to defend the text of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8333	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Gligorić. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8334	Mr. Chairman, fellow members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I came out to say that, as far as the first item of the agenda is concerned, and this is the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education, that we have agreed to do so means, a thematic session and, in fact, we can come forward today. I want to give that full support. Why, because we also worked through commissions and in the previous phase of two to three years on this law and I don't know why it should take more time to make a statement today, because we also have this amendment phase and, therefore, I don't think we should waste much time and this job should be done very quickly with that first item of the agenda, which I support. As for the proposal for the second item of the agenda, I support Mr. Chairman's proposal, Mr. Džaferović. I think we should find that item on the agenda today and have a debate on it. If we are not prepared for these or those reasons, and Professor Špirić, Professor Lagumdžija, Dr Živković, has already spoken of it, I support them. Today, we do not have members of the Presidency, who have confirmed this agreement between the US and BiH, and it would be correct for any of them to come and so that their opinion is oral in parlament, for the sake of the elevation of this parliament, and at the same time the minister of justice has no Kovač, who should also be here to give some information to lawmakers and, of course, Foreign Minister Ivanić is certainly his place here today and to answer, possibly, some questions from MPs when we talk about foreign policy. Therefore, whether conditions will arise, and I advocate that someone in these structures will certainly be present, because there is no more important issue in this country, when we find ourselves in a situation between the European Union and the US at the same time, we need to take fate into our own hands and say it. I think it's running away from responsibility. So I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda, to open up the issue of debate, and to see how much we are able to make that clear, or we're going to make an inprovation out of it from time to time. Therefore, we must not be an unserious country and an unserious parliament. Put it on the agenda, gentlemen, and make your argument whether you support it or not. I support it in this way and support Mr. Džaferović in this effort.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8335	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8336	Dear colleagues and colleagues, apparently I'm putting in practice that we're primarily looking at how we're going to determine ourselves according to the agenda, and here's what I couldn't resist going out without saying what we're going to do. The Party for BiH MPs' club is also ready to discuss this item of the agenda that we are discussing, i.e. the proposal presented by the chairman, and we will support the inclusion in the agenda of that agenda. When it comes to the arrangements Mr. Lagumdžija mentioned, since I am a member of the Expansive College, I would like to say that there was no talk about this other subject he mentioned. Of course, I don't rule out the possibility of discussing it, but the correctness is, it wasn't about any list or lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8337	Yes, this is the truth Mr. Belkić spoke of. I was going to say it in my comment anyway. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. You may, Mr. Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8338	First, Mr. Živković said, so it seems to me after Gligorić that someone is running away from something. No, the HDZ Club was talking about the position here, he suggested that June 12th be a session to find this. Did we miss something with that? And that's what we're holding in order to preserve the dignity of this home, which he himself in the last session set out for himself that the next session will be thematic with one, the only item of the agenda and we haven't missed anything. I'm not running, I can now wonder why this agreement wasn't signed before 16 May, so we'd have one of the agenda sessions. Niko one escapes from this, and no one says they'll plead. That's what I'm talking about. But let the people understand each other. I didn't, when I said I didn't want it to be today, say I was against the agreement, that I was against the debate. However, I have proposed this particular date, I think that an important agreement, that one so important state, is absolutely worthy of our attention and that it should be. But I now repeat that I received this proposal at 9:00 and 45 minutes. If that's enough, I haven't read it. It's not long, I haven't read it, appreciating that we're going to stick to our stakes from last session and that we're going to have one single item on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8339	Mr. Sead Avdić. I apologize to him. The man was on his way to the pay phone, so he went back to his seat. Let Mrs Ljiljana Milićević prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8340	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I would also like to point out that for today we have been predicting and that we have defined, how not, the thematic session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, with one item on the agenda, and that was, therefore, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. We have today, too, a kind of challenge, 11 that has long been rounding the public in BiH, it is a ratification of the agreement, a bilateral agreement with the United States, and in this context is being imposed as simple as the obligation to consider the House of Representatives and, in that sense, I can, too, personally support being included as the second item of the agenda, as counterpart Špirić said, and that until then, the presence of document promoters and the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency is ensured. That's one thing. Secondly, it is indicative, and in my view, making sure that a document that is such an important political content and a strategic one document of BiH that we simply have such a degree of improvisation, which is that the Council of Ministers determines the decision on June 2nd, delivers to the Presidency, the Presidency of June 2nd returns to Parliament, the Representative and the House of People on the same day of June 2nd, and an agreement ratified by the Minister of Justice on May 15th, which means that we should be given a sufficient, valid answer which is the procedure and how it was done simply. So, absolutely this house deserves it, and in this context we are, I believe, the condition of the second item of the agenda is the presence of document promoters and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. That one. And, secondly, I remind the chairman of the 128th, I think, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I pointed that out last time. I asked for smbiosis, information, a complete document that would unite what Bulldozer I, Buldožer ii... and everything else in one comprehensive document, the economic and social reform programme of BiH in the current 2003. I beg you, today I will not burden my agenda, but it is my duty for the House to put this item on the agenda. In this context, Dr. Lagumdžija is right. So, the next session of the House of Representatives, it simply couldn't be held without this item of the agenda and put it really, simply, serious about this system, the simple functioning of BH institutions, i.e. BH authorities and executive and legislative authorities in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8341	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Let Mr Ibrahim Đedović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8342	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I want to say that my Lino opinion and my colleagues, here, we are so caught up in the fact that this draft, in fact, we got this agreement, someone yesterday morning. That's the first recommendation from the Council of Ministers. Secondly, we want, in fact, my opinion is also to support the initiative that today's session is a theme session dedicated to the Framework Law and that, finally, we respect what we've been saying, which was our rhetoric. How important that is, how important it is, we've given him importance. Let's justify it today and let's not waste too much time on the agenda. 12 Also, I would not treat this agreement as any other agreement. He has great importance and we know what he can bring and take. I'm not generally against the agreement, but I'm against today being on the agenda, breaking some important things over our knees at the last minute. So, I would support the initiative if we had a session on whether it's a 12th or a term that fits, on which the vote on this agreement will necessarily be on the agenda, and today, as soon as we move forward with what we've taken on the obligation to go to the law, the Blame Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. We now have a lack of four MPs, which is one delegation that will eventually be missing. So let's not hide behind it. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8343	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Đedović Ibrahim, then Jozo Križanović and I would ask you to hold a debate on the agenda for the end, to go to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8344	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Mixed Club BOSS, the People's Party working to improve and the Democratic People's Community, I would like to inform you of the following. We fully accept the first item of the agenda and we advocate that as much work as possible about it as possible we do today. We fully accept the second item of the agenda, but we join the demands that the proposings be present and explain what we ask. As for the proposal for a debate on the College's lunch, we advocate that it be a mandatory point of the next session, if it should be with the enlargement that we were talking about, and that by then we get valid materials, which is why we could talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8345	Thank you. Mr. Križanović. Let Mr. Raguž prepare himself and Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8346	Discussing today whether to include the BiH and US agreement in today's session agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8347	May I have your attention, please? We have a discussion at the pay phone, attention. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8348	We are today determining certain very significant principles of position, the role of this home versus the executive authority. Of course, we are not opening a topic on the measure of the agreement, but I am also like many previous colleagues who spoke here, obliged to make one personal position, when it comes to BiH's executive power towards this parliament. You will see that a correct analysis will show that both the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency did not respect the procedure of the Law on the conclusion of international agreements and contracts, therefore, of BiH law. Of course, it is a delicate agreement and that its conclusion requires a lot of effort and political hearing, to explain to BiH citizens its essence and reasons for acceptance or rejection. That's why I now see the role of the BiH Parliament, or our House of Representatives. We are elected by the citizens of BiH and are obliged to explain and to account for what they are doing, and it is our job to pass good laws, good agreements, to exercise control over the legality of this country, control of the executive authority. This relationship between the Council of Ministers and the predsjednštvo on one of these big issues is slightly endearing. Besides, we didn't respect our procedure either. We are offered to include in the agenda of the agreement, namely the matter that has not passed our commission either. I don't have any attitudes here. And, let me cut it short. I don't mind opening up a debate today, but to know that we are also aware of the conditions under which we are opening it and that we know that, no matter what the conclusion or outcome of that debate is, that we know what messages we will send to the Council of Ministers, above all. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8349	I thank Mr. Križanović. I'd like to ask you again to stick to the agenda, to discuss the agenda. We'll have a later chance to praise and criticize. Let's move on as soon as possible, get into the essence of the session. Mr. Raguž, you have your word. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself and no more applications to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8350	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't mean to really speak, but as the debate stalled, there are a series of questions about supplementing the agenda and I'm going to try to stick to that part of the debate and say the following. 14 As a member of the College, I felt that the conditions for a serious debate on this agreement were not met today. That's what I said on the College of the narrow and last night on the Expanded and, I want to explain it also in the capacity of the President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs of this House, who according to the Rules of Procedure, you know the authority to consider the issues of previous granting consent to ratification by this House. It's in her job description, because we got the agreement a day or two ago, because we didn't have a chance to discuss this issue in a quality way, not wanting to in any way question the need for a hasty debate of this agreement in this home. In this context, I do not dispute either the right of the chairman or his arguments, the importance of the schedule of the duty of departure and everything else, but I think it is possible to find space to reconcile the need for this home to be determined on this issue and, secondly, to determine in quality conditions with quality information and with quality consensus. I don't know if you can say that today we have a relevant explanation which is the consequences of this agreement for BiH. I think the proposal to ensure the presence of members of the Council of Ministers, members of the Bureau, is a correct proposal that we have a previous Commission on Foreign Affairs. Can we secure it today or next week? I don't think that should be controversial. But because of this Parliament, because of the sensitivity of this issue, because of the great public interest, and I'm going to tell you, there are some political recommendations here for this country and its institutions, on the basis of what we both have agreed here recently, so let's see. If we are leading a consistent and responsible policy, open to the public, let's see how any party and any club of MPs, or MPs, behave towards the conclusions of this house and the interests of BiH. If the conditions are mature today, I'll get involved in that debate. I think that should be the criteria by which we determine if we're going to put this item on the agenda today? Do we have the conditions to discuss it tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, etc. Let's not argue that someone doesn't want this debate. I see we all will. We're just different whether we have the conditions for a sufficiently high-quality debate today and under what assumption this debate should be conducted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8351	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mr. Petar Kunić and, behold, another Mr. Nijaz Duraković signed up. So let him prepare himself and then we'll conclude a debate on the agenda. It'll be a full hour of debate. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8352	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am one of those who is also committed to putting this item of the agenda in today's session. True, there are facts that indicate that some of the previous procedural things have not been done. So it didn't pass to the commission, that we don't have enough arguments, or facts, that explain the content of this agreement, or its implications. But since it is an agreement with one leading force in the world, by handling some principle of rationality, I advocate that this agreement be placed on the agenda. Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8353	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mr. Nijaz Duraković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8354	Respect for everyone and an apology for the abuse of patience, because we already debate a lot on the agenda, and I would not speak, but Jozo reminded me, and I share his opinion. I mean, when we're talking about this point of agreement going to the agenda? As far as the BiH Party is concerned, we are ready to discuss, but some principled issues are being raised. This, as well as other parliaments in BiH, is unfortunately becoming more and more just a place to aclaminate pre-determined decisions, decisions taken in the headquarters of the ruling parties. Well, let's do that, but there's nothing we can do about it, but how can it happen today, let's say we're discussing this serious issue and we're discussing a serious agreement, there's no minister of justice who signed it, there's no foreign minister, which is probably the most competent one. There are no members of the predsjednštvo, who are ingnorating this Parliament, etc. What we should be having a real debate about is what this Parliament means, and what this authority is supposed to have under the Constitution. Because here is the highest legislative authority in this country or not? Is this where the executive power comes in, and it's overrun? Is she acting like, not to say, some ugly words. In the end, the law here is broken. And I'll set it up when it's done, if it's in the agenda, but let's just say it. What is the right now to the Government of Bosnia, the Ministerial Council, say the Government of BiH, that ad-hoc, without testing the will and this Parliament and any other sale and the last of the poor sovereignty that this state has? Why is it more agreeable to this relationship, this semicolonial position that we have and where is the lower limit? Dikle will go this condescending, this less value complex, this subjective relationship, etc. And in the end, questions arise why does powerful America, the world's greatest force, need a voice and support for small, poor, decomposed, semi-colonial BiH? And why they're putting us in a position to identify ourselves between the two most powerful blocks, between the United States of America and the European Union on the other hand, which is heartily against giving support as it is proposed to us. So, there are a lot of questions, but this is, first of all, a moral political issue. If this parliament gives support to this agreement, then the question is how will we banish justice in The Hague at all and others and, ask others to go to the International Court of Justice and so on. Won't it be an introduction to the general amnesty of the crimes of the unseen that happened in these areas? Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8355	All right, Mr. Duraković, you've come into a debate about the state itself. So, the debate on the agenda. I'm in the middle of a debate on the agenda. I just want to let you know and answer Mr. Duraković. BiH presidency member Mr Sulejman Tihić will attend the session when the agenda point is, therefore, an agreement, if Parliament's decision to be included now. That announcement came to me and, of course, I call on the relevant ministers from the Council of Ministers, in particular Minister 16 justice and foreign ministers to come to the session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you, who's to accept the proposal that, as the second such agenda of today's session, there's an agreement between the United States, I'll put everything Mr. Raguž on the vote, anything we have here. I'm just going in order as the proposals stand out. You don't have to apologize. Thank you very much. So I'm asking you who it is so that, as the second item of the agenda of today's session, an agreement between the United States and BiH on the surrender of the person to the International Criminal Court. So, giving consent to ratification. Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. We're going after the entities. From the Federation who's in favour? Thank you very much. From RS who's in favour? So, like this, of the 38 MPs present in the hall who voted for the vote, 28 voted against 9 – abstentions were 1. So there is general parliamentary support for this proposal. By entities. The Federation of BiH voted 20, which is more than a third. RS voted for 8 which is more than a third and I find that the second point of today's session, the second item of the agenda of today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly, is giving consent to the US-BiH agreement on the handover of the person to the International Criminal Court. So here we have another proposal concerning this same item of the agenda, which in my opinion and in my opinion, at this point, after this vote, has become groundless, because Parliament has set itself up. We have a proposal to make it 12. I wouldn't put this to a vote, because I think it's impeccable, we've set ourselves up, but if there's a insistence, we can, so we can do it. You say you insist. Please, I appreciate that it is immaterial, but since you insist, I have to ask the House who is for the HDZ Club proposal, which Vinko Zorić, president of the club, that this argument be 12 and if we have already put it on the agenda today. I don't care, but I ask who's in, because the club insists. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Did you win? Thank you very much. Who's being held back? Thank you very much. 17 May I have your attention, please? Please, we've finished discussing the agenda. We're in the voting phase. Please. So, here's the deal. Out of those 38 – 9 voted against 24 – abstentions 5. I konstatuj the proposal has not received parliamentary support. And, in the end, there's another proposal Mr. Lagumdžija made here. I now end up having to make a comment as chairman of the Expansive College. There were no proposals at the extended college that would be related to a list of 150 people, nor did Parliament receive any notice, or any document related to it, nor did there be a speech on the Extended College. Yesterday, at the proposal of Mr. Joza Križanović, the extended college decided to sign the letter from the Council of Ministers this morning, and it went to the Council of Ministers for information on the implementation of the first stage of the Bulldozer action, or the initiative and information on the term plan, deadlines and content of the imaginary phase II bulldozer initiative. These were the only two initiatives, and this has already been done by the College of the House of Representatives in the extended composition and when it comes, of course, MPs will be informed. There is this second part of Mr Lagudmdžija's proposal that the House of Representatives request information from the Council of Ministers on this list of 150 persons. Here, we can now plead to this request from Mr. Lagumdžija. Here, I ask the MPs, who is it that Parliament gets this information from the Council of Ministers? To ask the Council of Ministers for that information. I don't think there's anything there. The man suggested it, and I've got to figure it out. Thank you very much. There was a proposal, and I put it to the vote. Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8356	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8357	Who's against it. You don't mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you very much. Give me the results. Of the 38 MPs – 29 voted in favour – 9. He didn't mind. So there's no need for an entity majority here. I find that we have come to the conclusion that this information is requested from the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are this way, please nice, what else was the suggestion? What's the suggestion, so I forgot to tell me. You don't have to go out for a pay phone, just tell me. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8358	I thank Mr. Džaferović. First, about the agenda point, which we adopted to be under 2. The proposal was from different people, I repeat in a number of different forms, to be present here on this agenda point, to say the least, the people who took the picture when it was signed. Now, I can tell who it is. Members of the BiH presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers, Foreign Minister and Justice Minister minimally. These are the people who need to be here to inform us so that we can deal with it measuredly, because otherwise this means putting hot potatoes in this Parliament's hands by the people who brought us here. That's the first thing that Mr. Chairman needs to conclude, because we can't start that agenda point unless one of them gives us an opening on this topic. Please, because in that case, we were all led astray together when we voted in different ways. So I'd like to ask you that if you mean that it's done, I don't mind, that we can't start until one of them gives us the right information. It's perfectly natural. We do not need to read the agreement that we received, but they should also give us to be present and to answer the relevant questions. That's one for Mr. Džaferović at the agenda. And, two, regarding the two informations that you have concluded, that we should get, I suppose, I want to make it clear that this means that this information will be in the proper form of the debate of this bill, just to clarify that it is being determined that this information will be discussed in the BiH Parliament and that is why I am looking for them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8359	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. You weren't supposed to go out for a pay phone at all. I assure you, you've told me nothing new, unless you were motivated by other reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, things are completely clear. We adopted the agenda of today’s session, which has two points and reads: 1. Proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH, and 2. Giving consent to ratification of the US-BiH Agreement on the handover of a person to the International Criminal Court. It's the agenda of today's session. We also adopted a conclusion, which required proper information. The college adopted a conclusion, requiring adequate information yesterday. That information will be delivered to you and whether it will be the agenda of this amendment or not, this Parliament will decide, as it decides. That's what I decide or I can't or will. Therefore, this parliament will decide. So that's one thing. The other thing, when it comes to the presence of the relevant persons from the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, I have already informed you, that a BiH presidency member Mr Sulejman Tihić has announced his arrival and will come, I have now received a notice and I have said it once, only we do not listen when we speak, because we are talking, 19 and I am constantly warning you that we are watching what, to listen to each other. So, to attend the session, other members were invited, two other members of the BiH presidency. Of course, the Council of Ministers was invited. Here, I now again, therefore, will ask the services to inform the relevant Ministers of the Council of Ministers to come to the session and that part of the debate over who is present and who is not present will be at the moment when we discuss that item of the agenda. I'm now moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is planned to be done by 12 and 45. After that, it's a break until 14 o'clock. A certain number of people have an obligation to go to jujum. So, it's a break, we'll work till 15 to 1. The break is up to 14 o'clock. After that, we will continue, we will work until we finish the job, not to exclude the possibility, so if the debate takes place so long and we go late into the night that tomorrow we continue to work in this House. When we're done. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. This is the proposal for a framework law on basic and secondary education in BiH. For a reminder and for the public, to say that the proposed law is by the Council of Ministers of BiH. The legislator, along with the bill, also submitted a request for an emergency procedure under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. Lawmakers received the proposal on 22 April o.g. At the 13th session, Dom adopted the motion for an emergency, or shortened procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion to the MEPs on 13 May. The report of the committee responsible, which also referred to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, was sent to the Members on 3 June. As you have seen, the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted 27 amendments which were submitted and discussed at the commission stage. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I stress that this is about first reading and I am opening a debate on this law in my first reading. Before any of the MPs take the floor, I would like to ask the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to address the House, after which I would ask the Secretary-General to address this House and, naturally, you MPs, if you agree with this order. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8360	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues of this Parliament I will, of course, speak as rapporteur on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission at this stage. You have received a written report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, perhaps, immediately in the beginning that, in addition to what is stated in that written report, I find one fact, which is that this law has caused a great deal of attention and interest from MPs, which is seen, among other things, and in the fact that about 85 have been invested, if I am not wrong about amendments to the law, and the basic text of the law has about 60 amendments, pardon members. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, in order to ensure that this part of the work was done as soon as possible by means of a logic adopted by both the procedure and this House, as soon as possible, checked that this part of the work was done as soon as possible, so that you MPs would get a report early enough to consider 20 things and, possibly, what the Commission was considering and, in line with business opportunities. Due to the justified absence of a large number of members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we have extended our session that was scheduled for 28 last month and held it only on 2 June and, of course, we have made an effort to obtain a report. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law unanimously. She accepted 27 amendments and, I said, you got that report. However, I will say at this stage and it will probably require some understanding for the Commission that, when we produce the written report, we have stolen 3 or 4, I would say technical mistakes, which are such a character that we in the Commission, however, meet and verify at some point, because they are not, therefore, those that we could call obvious printing or some similar errors. So in this part of the report, I would ask the chairman, perhaps, after we hear the opening address of the Secretary-General or at a convenient moment, therefore, that time should be given to the Commission, perhaps even before this break, which is announced, or, somewhere in the course of that time, that these things are technically relevant to this written report to remove any dilemmas. Some of you have noted that in this respect there are these legal-technical, i.e. some discrepancies as decided in the Commission. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I think this is enough on behalf of the Legislative Commission right now. So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that's enough. So we supported these principles. We think that the amendments adopted, they were, of course, adopted in accordance with the business provisions of the relevant majority of those who supported certain amendments and, as such, represented, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure certified to say the will of a certain majority, but, of course, the debate will show everything else that is necessary for a debate on such a law to show and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8361	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Of course, during the session it is possible to pause and, for the sake of the meetings of the Commission, of course, by the Commission of Constitutional and Legal Affairs and by the Commission for Foreign Affairs. So it's a common practice and there won't be any problems. You just say when you need a break for these sessions and you have the right to do so and you will, of course, be in a position to be approved by the College, or me as chairman, to have the necessary working conditions. Mr Halilović Safet, the minister of civil affairs at the BiH Council has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8362	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, as an authorised promoter and on behalf of the Council of Ministers, which has been established by the draft law, the Framework Law on Fundamentals and Middle Education, I will provide some information, which mgou will be useful in identifying MPs for this law. 21 The reform of education was initiated and discussed at a meeting of the Peace Implementation Council, held in Brussels last November, in the presence of top representatives of BiH and political directors of all member states of the Peace Implementation Council. The need for reforming education in BiH has emerged, not only from the need for a reform of the inherited education system, but from the essential need for unifying the basics and conditions of education in a system designed during the war, after the war and after the war in the BiH area. We committed ourselves to this occasion as a state, therefore, in Brussels, in November of last month that we will work to ensure that all children have the possibility of quality education in integrated multicultural schools, at all levels, freed from political, religious, cultural and other prejudices and discrimination, where the rights of all children are respected. We promised to ensure that all children members of national minorities are properly involved in the education system across the country, that we would ensure that their children are allowed to complete primary education. We also made a commitment to enable the inclusion of children with special needs for all levels of the education system. Having, therefore, taken into account this obligation to the international community, I must say to ask the question of how to achieve those objectives. We can only achieve them through a clear legal framework: depoliticalisation of education, availability of education, under the same conditions and through the modernisation of the financing and management system. One big step in this direction, we think it's done by making a framework law on basic and middle education at the state level that we're considering today. It is necessary to clearly indicate that I am the name of the law Framework Law, giving a clear signal that this law does not take over the competences of entities and cantons, which are still responsible authorities in the field and pre-school, primary and secondary education. On the other hand, regardless of some compromise solutions, the law is the basis that guarantees implementation of reforms in BiH. The basis that guarantees the exercise of the rights established by the conventions, which are part of our legal system. The law, both formally and in substance, represents the fulfillment of one of BiH's post-accession commitments, following its accession to the Council of Europe, which I am convinced is also deeply aware of in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to the content of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, I will only stick to certain indications. In fact, BiH signed the Convention to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, while joining the Council of Europe in April last year. In accordance with the constitutional principle of direct application of this Convention, the text of the law shall be harmonised with the principles of the Convention and of the corresponding protocols. Chapter II of the Law, entitled "The Principles of Education", "The Rights of the Child to Education", is in line with 22 provisions of the Convention on the Prohibition of Discrimination, as well as Protocol No. 1 the Right to Education, which is specified to quote; "No one can be deprived of the right to education, in the exercise of their functions in the field of education and teaching. The countries respect the right of parents to provide such education and teaching that are in line with their religious and philosophical beliefs." The principles set out above are in line with Chapter IV of the Law – the Law and Obligations of Parents and Chapter VI of the Law – the Role and Obligations of the School. Protocol No IV lays down the principles of freedom of movement, with which Chapter II of the Law, which prescribes the obligations of the competent educational authorities to establish and organise a compulsory education system conditions for the smooth and free movement of parents, pupils and teachers, in the sense of respecting their right to choose residence and employment. Protocol No 27 provides for the equality of spouses in their relationship with children, with which Chapter IV of the Law is harmonised, under the heading – Parents' Rights and Obligations. Opinion number 2, 3 and 4. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is in fact a list of post-accession commitments, particularly emphasises BiH's commitment to law-making schools, in particular by detailing the following, quote: "The Council of Europe's assembly considers education to be one of the most critical factors, both for establishing democratic stability in BiH and for realising refugee returns and displaced persons. It is pleased to note that there has been some progress in this domain, particularly through the agreement of the Minister for Harmonisation, ministers to remove offensive expressions from school textbooks, to work together to create curricula and programmes, in the name of so-called. national subjects, to replace a time of general national defence educated in democratic, civil awareness of human rights. The assembly insists that it is essential to refrain from any objections in the children's education process, especially in school books, from what strengthens hatred and mistrust." The recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have harmonised Chapter VI of the Law in the title – Role and Obligations of the School. Chapter VIII — Educational standards. Chapter IX — Educational standards bodies. It can therefore be concluded that the text of the draft law is in full compliance with the opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As for the procedure, Parliamentarian Ćeman said about it and I don't think there is a need for me to talk about it here in particular, just to point out that, after being set up at the BiH Council of Ministers' meeting in April 2003, it was sent to the parliamentary procedure. It is important to point out that the draft law was adopted unanimously at a Council of Ministers meeting. A review of the most significant amendments, which appeared during this procedure, to only register those most important. So far, amendments to MPs in the House of Representatives, eight MPs from the House of Representatives have been submitted to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, 23 of them by a total of 85 amendments, to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. The amendments to the MPs are being sent on the one hand, tending to transfer more powers to the state level, while the other amendments go on then to be precisely named as the competent authorities on the one hand by the RS and on the other by the old cantons in the Federation of BiH. So, no federal ministry. However, it can be noted that it is the main challenge of Article 7 which speaks about the use of the language, Article 9 that regulates the issue of religious science, Article 42 to 45 that regulate issues relating to bodies for the establishment of standards in education, and Article 59 that determines the obligations of the Council of Ministers of BiH, unless established obligations are met within the given deadlines. The position of the Ministry of Civil Affairs on individual amendments. The ministry of civil affairs has so far formulated its views on most amendments submitted. As for the provision of Article 7 in the part that speaks about the use of the language, it is likely that an appropriate formulation must be found only when it comes to teaching from the mother tongue and perhaps there should be an exception. This exception should not be made in the direction of the formation of uniform classes and classes, but rather in the direction that the student has the right to listen to mother tongue teaching in that language. As regards provisions relating to religious science, Article 9 of the proposed legislative solution is a kind of compromise, which occurred after a lot of talks and with representatives of the international community. Finally, at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, which was held two days ago, 27 amendments were accepted. I will not comment on the amendments that have led to the improvement of the text, as well as minor amendments, so those that do not change the essence of these existing ones. Article 7(1) is amended and reads as follows: "The languages of the constituent peoples of BiH will be used in all schools in accordance with the BiH Constitution". Article 9 of the last attitude has been amended and it reads: "teachers who do not want to attend religious studies will in no way be put in an unfavourable position compared to other students". This provision will be more detailedly regulated by entity, cantonal laws. A new member has been added, which obliges the initiating of an agreement with other countries, in order to regulate additional teaching for children of BiH citizens. And, finally, to conclude. The framework law on basic secondary education has raised great attention, not only to parliamentary parties and psolaries individually, but also to the attention of the educational institutions. Regardless of certain dilemmas and requirements stemming from certain amendments, it is very clear that, in our opinion, the law is well done and that it is a very good basis for regulation in the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education. Now everything is in the hands of the MPs, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH both at home, and in this month, I hope that we will know the final result. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8363	I thank Minister Halilović. So this was a full exposure. It also referred to amendments. I hope that today we will come into a situation to discuss another reading and then we will talk about it, but, behold, the minister has expressed the position, the whole position of the ministry and, as regards the principles on which the law is based and, of course, certain amendments, which are invested in law and adopted or not adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The first to say, therefore, by opening a debate from the MPs, Mr Nikola Špirić reported. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself. Please give me written notice of the need to speak. If that's the case, then after Mr. Špirić you have your word and Mr. Moranjkih, his application has arrived to me now. Here, let it, if you are, I didn't see you raise your hand. That's why I need you to write down written reports for me who wants to talk. Let him prepare after Mr Špirić Ivo Miro Jović, then Muhamed Moranjkić and then as my applications arrive at the table. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8364	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers and distinguished guests, After the presentation of Minister Halilović, I would like to say the following about the Framework Law on Middle and Basic Education. It is clear to all of us that it is the law, which has long been the subject of various rapprochements within BiH, the various good services of the OSCE international community, first of all and, I think that for the first time when it comes to one system law, all those who are related to the BiH Parliament, I am thinking first of all of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, before the debate is opened, we can be sure that in the course of the debate we will come to the law, which is needed by BiH. I had the opportunity to speak to representatives of the international community, I had the opportunity to speak to the most responsible people of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. What would be good today would be to send a clear signal, given that the fourth report is working on what is going on in BiH, about reforms in the Council of Europe, and I think today the best signal we could send is the adoption of this law and, of course, the tone of the debate, to open up the possibility of another reading, the clarifications in the definitive version of this law. What I'm saying is that the Constitutional and Legal Commission did a good part of the job. What makes me happy is that the remarks at the beginning that were made by the club of a strong HDZ political party, I think first of all, are relatively relativised in such a way as to adopt that part of the amendment, which satisfies the form of that party to create premise that we can talk today about this law in the sense that we are bringing the debate to an end. I would pray today, I suggested there were three amendments, none of those amendments were accepted. Part of those amendments, through the amendments accepted, solved what I wanted to do with my amendments. I won't stand for the amendments today. I want to facilitate the debate, and so I ask my colleagues today, given that the minister said, and we have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there have been over 80 25 amendments, that 27 amendments have been accepted, that today we are having such a debate that we do not return the process to the original text of the law, that we would not today separate the additional amendment phase, in the sense that, instead of seeing the end, we are returning the process to the beginning. Be assured that, and when we adopt such a law with adopted amendments, there are critical points in that law, therefore, aware that we are not getting the ideal law and that, I would like to cultivate such an atmosphere that practice is denying us and that we are prepared to change that law the moment when it is estimated that its individual segments are not enforceable, or are more difficult to implement in practice. But today, we would do well to adopt this framework law, and to open a tolerance debate, as we had in the framework of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as we had between clubs. Believe me, I've spent a lot of time talking to representatives of different clubs and individual MPs to have that law today. So, I will not insist on my amendments, and I would pray that today, therefore, it is my request, if possible, of course, not contesting the right to speak to anyone about the law, that today, now that the amendment phase is over, we see how we can bring this first phase to an end and create conditions for the law to be given in a certain form. My contribution to this goal is not to insist on the amendments I have submitted, because they are partially resolved. Some have not been adopted, but what we will do is parliamentary practice, what has definitely been adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm not going to talk, of course, about what I don't think is right in the law, which is not enforceable, because that would open the controversy, get you back to the beginning of the essence of the law, and I don't think you'd make the best contribution, so I won't talk about it, but I'll be ready in October, November to launch an initiative to change the law, with your help and your consent where practice proves that the law is not profitable for practical solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8365	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself. I don't have another application here by now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8366	Dear Presidents, esteemed ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, I would like a few notes and a proposal. First of all, we have been filled here and behind this pay phone for a few months, perhaps two days now, with our wish and our obligation to meet the European community. That the Framework Law on basic and secondary education is one of the pillars of this, it is undeniable. But we need to keep an eye on it, it seems to me that I once again said that modernization and harmonisation is a priority matter of this law, not of destroying the existing one. That sentence is what we who were in the Constitutional and Legal Commission heard from all those present from the international community. That's one thing. 26 Second, modernization and civilization approach to every problem, and this and this is my hand constantly in the air to adopt any such law. But I'm not for a law that even thinks, that could help the crisis of reform disappear and my identity. We discussed and the report on the Constitutional and Legal Committee if it came to you, you saw under point 1 that the principles within the law were adopted there, the most important thing is 5.0. Thank you, that's right, and we need these principles and we need to stick and I'm thinking that here, we should probably say something more about them, to make it easier for us here today in our work to have a more expedient, faster, more constructive approach to the adoption of this law. However, there are some things that have driven me to be the one who came here first to state the basic principle that must rule is respect for constitutional solutions until they change. The way we change the Constitution is known to everyone and so be it. As long as the Federal Ministry of Education is not authorized to pass laws, we vigorously oppose any law that would allow the Federal Ministry to pass laws, which is the basic principle of respect for constitutional solutions. If the Federal Ministry, which it cannot, because it is formed for the sake of co-ordination in education, if the law allows it to pass laws, I am sure you will have 99% opposition to such a law by a people in BiH. I ask you to feel the weight of the words I speak here at the pay phone. Why? Often, these types of positions of Hrvat in BiH can be seen here. I wouldn't like to elaborate it, and I don't have much need, because it's clear and visible to every man. Here, trying to create three entities of the RS, the Federation and the Brcko District, probably someone imagines what perhaps, perhaps, I should not advocate a third entity, but I say, it must have occurred to someone that should belong to a nation, but which, possibly, could smell that there is a right one people in that Europe that we want to go to, and is mastered by the most important segment of our lives, which is: language, culture and tradition. We'll bring him into a situation where he'll be on the sidelines every day and majorized. In order for that to not happen, I want to and I want to say, or a proposal to withdraw the Constitutional and Legal Committee immediately and confirm what I said that we will respect the Constitution or come out here on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and say that this Parliament will respect it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8367	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Moranjkić answered. I don't think there's any need for Parliament, who swore to the Constitution, to respect it. I think it would, it could be discussed. We've received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and here's the debate. Gosodin Moranjkić. Here you go. I'm just asking you to listen to Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8368	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, gentlemen of fellow Members, MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and the International Community, ladies and gentlemen, today, in front of us in this legislative highest body of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a system and reform law, called the Law on Fundamental and Medium 27 Education. I don't stress, in vain this, systemically and reformically, because it means a lot in itself, especially considering the situation in this space and in this time. It's one of the fundamental laws for this country today. It is based on the principles of modern and democratic society, creating a basic basis for guaranteeing civilised development and progress, because these spaces and this time require above all: a single legal, at least framework regulation at state level, which allows this law, which will create and provide it through a unique system of education and education, which will eliminate from schools primarily: racial, religious, national and any other segregation, which is undesirable, especially in this afternoon. And, in schools, they will introduce curricula and programmes, with a unique common core of objects, with properly measured depths, which are "burdened by children in European schools, and that the contents are so-called. not of common subjects happily and measured not to have offensive, irritable, Hague content in them, with express tolerance, mutual respect for each other's diversity, which is light and indeed this afternoon, with a particular emphasis on respect and tolerance for national minorities, which we must not forget. Politics must be thrown out, especially from these schools this afternoon. This law should bring our treated educational system at the very least closer, if not immediately, to the same system in Europe that we are seeking today. I appreciate it as a man of the profession that this law will provide and enable him to do so, which is why I'm giving him support. What I'd like to point out, reading carefully this law and the man I'm in the profession, I can't help but point to certain shortcomings that I've seen without bringing them out. The truth is, I tried to present them in the amendments, but I accept the tolerance of such a cage has been made. Number one. Material and human resources in our society and schools and the willingness of the same, to accept and implement the realisation of this law in such a short time, I think it is questionable, especially when we've accepted deadlines when we're going to implement this law. The law, in my opinion, should have been passed long ago, maybe two or three years ago, why we didn't do it, we probably know, but it's also sad. Secondly, this law, as well as other acts that will follow it, which will be subsequently passed, does not even mention the laws adopted so far, which this law will, in part, act, either on the basis or on the basis, be expressed through a dual system of education, such as the Law on crafts adopted in the Federation and the Law on crafts adopted in the RS. The third, nine-year primary education, is not the ten-year-old education, which is basic in Europe, where two years of focus is being met and allows the child to enroll in college. This change is not a matter for us, because in this case we should, and if we have already decided to present an organisation and reform in secondary education, which is not mentioned in this law, but then it is necessary to do so. That is why I remain in my soul for what I have betrayed, or said in my amendments. And by the way, as a man from the profession and a man from this afternoon, I can think loudly, that in our harsh and climate conditions and sometimes in some places rarely covered by a school network, a child at six years of age will sometimes be the 28th rare guest of that school, because it's worth 10 kilometers, 5 kilometers, or 15 kilometers, through the cracks, snow, rain and discomfort to bring the child to that school. So, I'm leaving a part of what I said and that's: if that's the problem, and it's not what we do with secondary education, I think we took a child for a year and did an inhuman procedure for children. Furthermore, what I saw as negative is that school management was based largely on a volunteer basis. Knowing our mentality and knowing our middays, I know that there will be exceptional problems and, I don't think that management will want to function if it stays this way as the law has been drawn. Fourth, I won't be long. I will point out the exceptional difficulty of including a new system of education, as provided for by this law, in the current one, which is likely to require parallel biking of two real plans and programmes for eight years and I don't know how this will be done and how to regulate this law to be widely applied in practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8369	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković answered the following for his word. However, the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is marketing a word, so I'd like to ask you to wait a moment. President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8370	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I hope colleague Novaković will be pleased with this proposal as well. In fact, I have already indicated to this House the need of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to give a break to the report that you have received, that is, to consider certain corrections and we would suggest, is certainly announced and a pause for another occasion, at this point to give a break for the Commission to withdraw and to consider these technical corrections to the report that you have received. I'm asking you to appreciate that. I think it's very useful to continue working at this House session, and I'd like to say, if this is accepted, here I can inform the Constitutional Commission that this session will be on the second floor in Hall 2. Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8371	Please, therefore, respect the request of the Constitutional Commission. It's taking a break, given the break to the jumble, we'll be back to work at 2:00. Until then, let the Constitutional Commission do its part of the job. We'll continue at 14. Thank you. 29 We have 34 MPs in the O.R. right now. [[PAUZA]] So we have a quorum. I expect the other MPs to join. The President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, requested a break. I'm giving him my word now. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8372	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so, in the break, the Constitutional Commission held its session, with one item on the agenda, which is, I'll feel free to interpret. Verification of the report from last session and, possibly, corrections in the report that you received as MPs on your benches. The Commission numbered eight members. The representatives of the OSCE, or the Council of Europe, also attended. The Commission first found that because of its realness, I would say, the haste to present itself to Parliament as soon as possible as the Commission's report, as the authority of the body of this house, therefore, in writing and, after considering 85 amendments, a large business has been done, but that certain errors have been subdued in the report. Two. The Commission found that, even today, in the preparation of the report, it did not have a stenogram at the Commission's meeting, in order to remove, possibly, the dilemmas about some of the formulations in the report itself and, therefore, could not be made known around all of them until that time, possibly, the failure in the report that was made. As a result, the Commission concluded that it would plead to all, possibly, the corrections shown, it is necessary to have a complete stenogram, as regards, to say the disputed parts. However, the Commission has made unabsorbed and, instead of the wording that you have received in its report, Amendment XV Amendment XI should read: "In the position of Article 31, the point is eventually deleted and the following text is added: "In line with the specificities of the accepted schools, which include religious schools." Therefore, Amendment XV was also agreed: "There have been indications of certain, therefore, failures regarding Amendment XX and Amendment XXIV, so because of the stenogram we could not yet state whether the report that you received correctly interpreted what the Commission had decided and how the amendments had been formulated. However, these misunderstandings arise from that, as different concepts are, in fact, principles or some principles, which the Commission has agreed on, and the report says that, that the principles of the law are being accepted, but it has proved that some of the principles or were not adequately understood, and one of them is, I will formulate it. Realising whether the Commission, by discussing the general part, agreed in the general part that the Federation of BiH as an entity has or does not have a legislative competence in the area of education, or that is the exclusive jurisdiction of the canton. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have not yet delivered this amendment to you. The Commission proposes that the House decide, in fact, to continue the debate, in view of this fact, which I have now stated that it will continue to work. The Commission is obliged, if given the time, to provide all the disputed facts contained in this report, of course, below, when considering, if necessary and in writing. Today we could work on this break as much as I said. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8373	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Momčilo Novaković answered the question. Here you go. For now, you're giving up. It's here, if anyone wants to talk any further about the text of the law. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8374	The President of the Commission spoke unreasonablely to me, in an unreasonable language. I don't mean here understanding the words he said, but the context he said here. Finally, he read something to us, which we would have to remember, regarding Amendment XV, which he did not deliver to us in writing. I have quite the opposite information from the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this one that he brought here. Yes, he did not, at all, vote on certain misunderstandings. Why don't we get a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission? I asked that two hours ago, I'm asking now. Is this the report? If it is, I'll continue my debate. If not, please get a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. How can we discuss such an important law that we do not have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission? The position of the club I am chairing will be presented only after the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission's statement. Whether we have a report or not. If we do, what's that? And I have one report signed by the president, and right here at the beginning of today's session, he said, "It's not a good report, but I signed it." ... What happened in the meantime from 2. Six to the day. So when we came to a satisfactory solution to make such an important bill, it doesn't suit anyone. Say what is not in accordance with the Constitution in the adopted or accepted amendments. What is not in accordance with the laws and what is not in line with what I want to achieve with these laws and the obligation we have to make commitments in Europe. Well, my men, let the President of the Commission declare what our raids are. No, he's looking for a statement from the House about what the Constitutional and Law Committee was doing. So how am I gonna get to the bottom of this? Am I up for this bill or not? Today we were full of paroles around the second point of the agenda how, well, for God's sake, two clubs here don't support it. I'll see to it that when there's a vote here who supports and doesn't support it. However, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has submitted a report, or adopted 27 amendments, and then whoever signed it says that – if they are not accepted otherwise. How else? I don't know. Let's see it differently signed. Well, we can't play with who he answers to here. Or it is a report or it isn't. Please, Chairman, don't let us lose this whole day here because of things we can do only if people remember honestly what happened on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. At the end – and a stenogram, why not. Why did we lose two hours? If it is not possible to obtain a stenogram and report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, will we interrupt the session and continue on Monday-Wednesday whenever we want. Let's talk about it here. Not that we're telling a story here today and we don't have the material to talk about. 31 I think this is the kind of important law - I'll be careful on time - we can't pass without the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission It's the taste of what I wanted to say when I came out here while I, by the way, apologized, chairman, here I took a little more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8375	I thank you, Mr. Zorić. You know, right now, we're not gonna interrupt today's session. I, therefore, am a river, and you have supported it; it will last this day. If it's necessary, it'll continue tomorrow and we'll finish what we've determined as the agenda. Yeah, so I know everybody. It's about important business. There's no need for any rush. There's time till dark today, late into the night, if you have to continue tomorrow. As time goes, there's plenty of time. We certainly had our last session on May 13th, and today it's June 6th. Mr. Ćeman asked for a word – the president of Ustvano-pravan-Justice, Nikola, and then you will get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8376	Of course, it is not good when a technical or other character’s mistakes are stolen in the official report. The Commission has been placed in a position that due to the decision of this House, and by an urgent procedure, the law has been scattered and had very little time first to consider this, and then to prepare the reports and we in that section, I as president of course and others who participated in the part in which the processing of this text you have received cannot escape from what is our merit or fault in this regard. There's a report, it's in front of your benches. I had an obligation and a moral and formal law to point out that it was from sending the report, and this is what happens that certain mistakes have been detected and that these mistakes need to be corrected. We did not have time to maintain the Commission before the start of this session so that we could verify and unanimously establish or co-consistencies which are legal-technical or other errors in the report you received. So I immediately pointed out and asked for the understanding of the House to give us a chance. Thank you. The Commission was also given the opportunity to conclude, therefore, that, in respect of one amendment, this part of it had been completed. So it was really a technical mistake. For other controversial things that may eventually be indisputable, so it was not advocating because it did not have a stenogram, which would be the most objective document. I remind you that at that time, the Commission, I said, has been doing this for less than 10 hours, considering 85 amendments. So, of course, it is procedurally known that the House can continue to work on this. The Commission proposed to vote on the identified, of some of the Commission's members, by technical errors. But it was also a procedural possibility, but it was also an effort to clarify, not just a formal vote for or against, which is a dispute if there is a legal-technical, or technical or otherwise. 32 And because of this, it is not impossible for anyone to declare it, but until the beginning, after the break of this session we have succeeded in doing what we have done. Of course, we'll do what's left of what's potentially controversial if that's why we get the time. And it's up to this home to inform about what I said or maybe didn't say, and you know about this report from a technical point of view, decide if there are enough elements to discuss this. If there is one going on, and if not let us give time to get a stenogram in one or two more controversial details, then the Commission will officially determine that in writing, of course, to get a supplement of the report. I really haven't seen any wrong tendencies around here. It is only true here because of the haste that some technical mistakes have been made and I cannot escape from it, but of course I want you to have an understanding of the climate, the atmosphere and the good intention of the Commission to do your part of the work. And I remind you that the Commission, and maybe this wouldn't be like this, was scheduled for 28.5., and I said again because of the inadequate number of members of the Commission, we've made it easier for 2.6, and to give you the opportunity to possibly intervene with the amendments for 48 hours, and to get a timely report. That hastily simply made this mistake. As much as anyone wants to have that understanding, it's his business, but this is how things went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8377	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Nikola Špirić, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8378	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, you see, no matter what here today I've been trying to put a word of compromise into every sentence of mine, here I'm going to try to end this session to be my definitive goal of getting to the law, I have the impression that someone, yes, when I was just convinced that we were all trying to get to this law then what is a fundamental misunderstanding, many are trying to defend by technical mistakes. There's a way out of this situation if we want the law. There are 98% of the things the Commission has agreed on. They've got three things to argue with. But I suppose they also have previous stages in writing the Laws of the OSCE, the Council of Ministers, etc. So on what is not agreed we accept the original text of the Law. Well, that's where our misunderstanding is hiding. For lying to each other. Well, I said the law isn't ideal, so we can change it in October if we agree. And I said that I was glad that part of the amendment simply solved a part of the justifiable reasons of HDZ that these amendments would be accepted to come to the conclusion. Which we are now running to accept the original text of the law. I guess that's where Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvti, experts from the international community sat. What does someone want through the amendment? The improvement, the technical correction, or to guess at the essence. And I have to tell you that here, by guessing essentially, there is an inaccurate part of the law. The school board of '91. It means that only the Serbs in the schools can be in the woodwork. Is that doable? For raping the situation. What does any of this law want? So to all, a mouthful of talk, We will make it a law. 33 I want the law, here is what you have agreed in the Constitutional Law; we have no time to return the process, you will not agree. You made mistakes so that what you didn't, if someone dropped it later... I don't care. I accept what they've agreed to. What you're not the original text of the law and we have the law. And that's my contribution to the compromise. Come on, please, let's get this straight. If we're still arguing now, we won't. Did anyone mean the point, period, I don't think we're going to get a solution. But if we honestly accept that idea to come to a conclusion. My suggestion was believe me, I talked to my colleagues so it would be good to accept this law without amendments. But the indignation, for example, for the reason shown by the HDZ Club, has created space to fix something, we come with a real consensus. But if we think we're going to break out of this law maximum, I'm telling you, if all of this were to be accepted by what three points say here, that there's an inconclusive part. So let the practice convince us so together as fellow MPs say in October, you see we have to change the law. And I specifically suggest, don't go back to stenograms to outsmart ourselves, these three things you didn't agree on, I suggest that the original text of the law solve it. And that would be my compromise in the first and second readings if we had the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8379	I thank Mr. Špirić. _______(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Please just don't throw it away. For the pay phone, you can. Don't throw it out of the bench. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8381	I respect Mr. Špirić's efforts to get to the law. And I want this law two years and more. He says if 98% of the law is agreed, then let's accept it 2% in the text in which the proposer offered it. Why insist on being inconclusive. Now I say, if all international organisations claim that the return to Bosnia and Herzegovina is almost over, that it ended in almost 98%, why it was '91. Unimpleable in that 2%? Because gentlemen of '91. If we step away from it, from the school board, and he runs the school policy, leads everything relevant at school and insists that 34 he reflects the national population, why at some point, why not '91. A year? If it's in a given moment, it's legalization. The fact is that Srbin will never return to Drvar, Bošnjak and Hrvat I do not know in Srebrenica and elsewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's not do this. Let's look for a compromise, but not this way. And here we have managed to get a stenogram in the meantime and I apologize to the President of the Commission, but the stenogram at large confirms the correction of the report for both Article 42 and Article 50. So he's exactly who the president is. It was not examined by the Commission. I'm saying, we got it, now it's going to be divided into all MPs, but it's obvious that the mistakes were technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8382	Please, nice. Please, nice. Just please, just a little attention, please. ________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] We will, of course. Please, I didn't get it either. I don't have one. Just a little attention. We're not far at all. So please, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, will we listen when spoken for by the pay phone or we will speak among ourselves. Tell me. Well, it's a waste of warning you, Mr. Zorić, when I speak three times, and you keep talking. It's only short for Mr. Špirić, and then I'll make a proposal to get out of this situation. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8384	Well, you see, I didn't, I said I pulled all the three amendments I wrote, even though I could insist. In the electoral text of the Law, the legislator was aware of the general situation and said a framework list in '91. So let me get this straight. Insisting strictly and calling it technical errors and subsequent memories on the '91 list. create some things inconclusive on the ground. That's why I'm not against you. It says in the Constitution and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska census in '91. Well, we're aware of that. We need to be aware here that we are making a viable situation in this country. Well, I guess there'll be a list in a year in this happy state, so he won't be the same as '91. to turn all of them into ashes, missing people, killed in this war. Let's not open things we can't solve. So I prayed and said my compromise is, if you can't agree to accept the original text, because there were some experts sitting there, I repeat again Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat. Don't make a masquerade. It pleases me, I must be honest with you both. But one who is satisfied with only one solution should ask themselves whether there is a compromise on the line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8385	Thank you very much, Nikola. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is obvious that the Constitutional and Legal Commission in the break we had because it had no insight into the stenogram did not end part of the job, which is why we took a break. According to the Rules of Procedure, we must have an indication of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the Constitutional and Legal Commission itself noted certain errors in its report. In order not to conduct a needless debate here, before we clear this issue, I will at this point, and since here I have received the information that has arrived and a stenogram, take a 30-minute break, ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission to meet and that this situation in terms of these two things clarify and that the Dom informs about its position. After that, only the House will be able to decide. But here I am taking a break, Mr. Raguž, if you insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8386	I insist because of the proposal you made.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8388	So we did get a stenogram, but we only got one piece of the stenogram. And what's open as three open questions, if we can't open it, there's no consensus, there's no constitutional-legal statement, that it's just three open questions, and then you should have a whole stenogram and then a nice story should come back again. So I don't accept that this is just this selection that was made, possibly this correction of what was offered here with the signing of the chairman. I suggest we stick to what came as a report and work on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8389	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. So ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament we've got here at the table of interventions of the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has not yet its 36 position on these issues. I don't want to prejudge any solution or opening or closing any package at all. I only, as chairman, ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission to plead and give a 30-minute break to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We'll continue at 15 hours and 15 minutes. Thank you. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has therefore found a solution. The Constitutional and Legal Commission report is just multiplying. That's why the President of the Commission isn't here. I ask you, therefore, that we stay here in places to wait only for the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that we go immediately to work so that we do not seek each other again. And I would ask professional services to check how far this has arrived and ask the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to hurry to report and then propose a further way of working on this item of the agenda. I give my word to the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to Mr Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8390	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, I beg your understanding here's what we've done. You will receive this written verification report and report corrections at any moment, and I will determine the following. That, therefore, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 8 were present, so all those who are at this moment members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission have agreed on the following, please follow that? - Amendment I should read, so that amendment in the report you got should read, this first part wasn't controversial, but here I'll read it. In Article 1(1), point 1 is deleted at the end and words are added."and additional teaching for children of BiH citizens abroad." Furthermore, in paragraph 3, this is now added in relation to what you had, in the position of Article 3. the beginning of the text to the bracket should read: "the authorities responsible for organising the education system in the Brcko District of BiH, the Republika Srpska Federation of BiH and the cantons in accordance with the Constitution" continue the text in brackets, you see in the further text of the educational authority. So that's about the corrections to the amendment and that you got in the first report. - Amendment v. naime correction of Amendment V should read as follows: Article 9 paragraph 4 is amended and read as follows: 37 "Teachers who do not wish to attend religious studies will in no way be brought into an unfavourable position in relation to other students point." This is therefore the correct amendment v. ispraviti Amendment XV should read as follows: Article 32, Article 32, paragraph 1 is eventually deleted and the following text is added: "In line with the specificities of private schools in which religious schools are included". I've already read this correction in this first turn before this second break. amandman XX is corrected as follows: In the position of Article 2 42, the words "canton" are added to the words: "canton". In the position of Article 3 of the 42nd text behind the words "adopted, signed" the words "Minister of Education of Republika Srpska, Minister of Education of all cantons from the Federation, Bosnia and Herzegovina", uh, here's the secretary again, excuse me, you used the one
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8391	Read the text correctly, please. Well, read it the way it is, and we'll fix it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8392	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8393	May I have your attention, please? It's a technical mistake. May I have your attention, please? It's not a question of anything. It's a technical mistake. The Federation needs to be added.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8394	Wait a minute. It's about Amendment XX, right? So, just a little bit, so Amendment XX – in Article 2. item 42, behind the word "Student Education Minister" is added the words "canton". Now we move on. The position of Article 3 of the 42nd text behind the words "adopt and sign" is amended and reads as "the education ministers of entities, the education ministers of all cantons from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the representative of the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina". That's it. And the amendment further to XXIV, the correction reads: Article 50 adds the words "in principle according to the 1991 census in Bosnia and Herzegovina". Everything else is identical in an earlier report. 38 Again I apologize, here you see the one used, the background in the computer before this ex post correction, so here's this little correction again, but we're going to do that too. I think this is now an undisputed bar as far as this technical aspect is concerned. Thank you very much for understanding, waiting and patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8395	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. I would ask only the Professional Service, please nice, so here we now know what the text of the Law is. Can I have a moment, please? The text of the Law is the Law which we received in the parliamentary procedure as amended by the amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission which you also received by the report on the verification and correction of the report of 2.6.2003 in the Proposal for a Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because now amendments I, Amendment V, Amendment XV, Amendment XX and Amendment XXIV are defined not as it stands in the report, but as it stands in this verification correction, with you now getting on amendments XXIV and XX respectively, please just a little attention. With regard to Amendment XX, you will now receive a text correction. It is not, therefore, the text of the RS Education Minister but of the education entity ministers, the education ministers of all cantons. Isn't that right, Mirsade? From the Federation of BiH, and the Minister of Education, a representative of the Brcko District, and you will receive the text. That's it, then. So, we've heard the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Please continue now, to work constructively. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we, therefore, have before us a text agreed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. This amendment XX will be corrected, as Mr. Ćeman said about the pay phone, not how we got in this text, because the old text from the computer was used. So entities, not just one entity. I suggest you do the following. I suggest we continue to work constructively, so that we can get to the law as soon as possible. I would ask that in a few sentences of club presidents, not to dispute every MP's right to speak, say what the ratio of clubs to this text of the law is to move to the first and then to the second reading of this law, so today we have the law. Here, I'm opening the debate. This is my proposal. You don't have to respect him. If you want to follow him, then let the club presidents report. I'm opening a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8396	I thank Mr. President, I just wanted to say something very important, which is why we've been arguing all along and I don't believe there's gonna be any 39 problems with those who will hear me, and they were sitting when we talked. It is very important to highlight in the entire text of the law, where the powers of the Brcko District of BiH, entity and county are listed, that this be consistent and in accordance with the Constitution. Please, that's what we've decided. I hope you agree with that which you were, therefore, not only in Article 1 but wherever there are people who will implement, or institutions that will implement this law, to say in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8397	What do you say, Mr. Ćeman? For the payphone, look out, this is recorded, it's a stenogram, this is where every letter, point and point is made. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8398	This, therefore, was a legal-technical processing and we didn't stress these things now, but here I will remind you that this position is in the unchanged text of this article, and how it is now understood according to this report. In fact, this is the attitude of Article 1. Authorities responsible for organising an education system in the Brcko District of BiH, entities and cantons in the text of the competent educational authority. The Commission's intervention, which you have received, has been legally processed from the point of view in the following. Yes, therefore, this ss position of Article 3. the beginning of the text to the bracket, and in the brackets when you look at it is written in the further text of the competent educational authority, so what is now in line before the bracket is this. Authorities responsible for organising an education system in the Brcko District of BiH, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and cantons, in accordance with the Constitution, in the text of educational, competent educational authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8399	They're still all educational authorities. Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. I beg you, I would ask the presidents of the clubs, not including the rights of MPs and others to stand up and say what they think in two or three sentences about this text and to go to a statement. First reading. We'll come to another reading. Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8400	So, listening to the Chairman's proposal, I would like to meet those present that as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and also the head of the SDA Club, I have quite contributed to a compromise and that the position of the SDA Club is what you have received and what the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has said about this speaker.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8401	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself. Please. He's not on call. If you don't, sir, I assume you've appreciated my proposal. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8402	I also thank all those who worked on this committee, that we finally got the report. My kolegica Palavrić used the word compromise, and my friend Špirić said it would be good in every sentence to mention the compromise today, and here I mention it. We accepted that, and if we did, remember at the last session here as a club operated on 59 amendments. We are pleased at the Club, because they have accepted solutions regarding language, religion and competent bodies, in accordance with the constitutions. So both entities and counties and, of course, the Constitution of BiH, naturally, the principles managed by the HDZ Club are fully European principles. We want this system law and we are glad and we hope that today there will be a vote of such an important law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8403	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Joz Križanović. On the other hand, who's on the other side? Mr. Ibrahim Đedović, then we'll be downstairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8404	I would like to express my satisfaction that today in this House of Representatives, the House of Representatives, we are discussing an extremely important law and, in this regard, I would also like to express my gratitude and to say that I appreciate the efforts of our constitutional and legal commission, which, behold, has finally agreed to its report. So it is an important law, which is necessary for BiH and which already is now, that we can say it comes with a considerable delay, because, unfortunately, in the past, it has generated a good period of time, to say certain discrimination, depriving of human rights and especially the rights of the child. But here, I'm particularly glad that today in this atmosphere, we want to bring together a debate on this law and I think there should be no misunderstandings about the need for it. The amendments made to the bill, in my personal opinion, did not improve this law. On the contrary, I believe that in some segments, very important segments it has been violated by the quality of the starting one, but, I say, respecting the importance and urgency of adopting this law and I am one of those who will give up their amendments and we will also advocate that this law be passed in another reading. Here, so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8405	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr Ibrahim Đedović. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare himself. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8406	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Mixed Club of the DNZ, BOS and the People's Party Work for the better, does not consider the law perfect, but will support it, as the highest value, we consider the way in which the agreement was reached and let this be the way for the adoption of the next, numerous laws, which follow in front of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8407	Thank you, Mr. Đedović. Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8408	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, honored guests, I also, on behalf of the Mixed Club, want to welcome, above all, the efforts of both the BH institutions and the international community, which has simply provided and harmonised this big responsible job for BiH, which is simply the preparation and definition of the proposal for a law on basic and secondary education. Well, interpreting the Constitution, in a functional and efficient way, objectively this text of the law came before us and in this context sure that the first reading is not controversial and that first reading has the support of the Mixed Club. In the second reading in detail and considering these amendments, objectively, I can say, in part, disrupt the consistency and unity of this law, make it difficult to implement it safely and simply complicate what is drawn out in these ideas, theoretical and basic laws. This means, the evrpski Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Pact on Social and Cultural Rights, simply and everything else that is the basis of this law. Which means that I expect that the law in implementation, which today will be passed and, simply and these compromises, which are a magic word for Representatives and which should be sought, and researched objectively, I repeat again, will make it difficult to enforce the law, violate its unity, consistency, simple and what the promoter at the outset has thought about, and once again I say, objectively the House of Representatives is facing a number of times that the Council of Ministers, in which the representatives of political parties and parties, who here, through the amendments, are completely changing the message of simple and content of the law. In objective terms, we will have to see in future that the Council of Ministers has its own disgusting responsibility when proposing legal projects and that it is expected that the political parties whose thoughts and belonging to the Council of Ministers will take care of, simply, the views of their political parties, when they propose the law to the House of Representatives and the House of 42 peoples and I will inform you. We have four clubs such as SDP, SNND, DNZ, BOOS, HDU, NHI and SPU had a political colloquium, i.e. a semi-sanitary colloquium around this law, and that we have supported the law in this context, and in this context, it is certain that this law with compromises and amendments is better than anything at BiH level.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8409	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Have Mr. Nikola Kragulj prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8410	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express one satisfaction that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has done a great job and to stress that in the future it would be good for our commissions to work and that they spend more time, as in this case almost 15 hours has been spent, if we take the previous work, and then you in Parliament, I am deeply convinced, after this debate, you can finish in 15 minutes, in fact and first and second reading. It is, in fact, the essence that committees do their jobs, that they spend much more time in the work area, to make it easier for Parliament. We were in one position when we thought this law would be nothing. It is those who, in some way, have fought back, argued to each other and have found a solution, so I would like to say, indeed, to all and Mr. Ćeman, who said, "This is my hardest job today," that we are all now praising... Mr. Ćeman and this work and you should also support Professor Nijaz Duraković and Mr. Belkić and Professor Kunić, and, at the same time, I have to say about Mr. Martin Raguž, who also gave Marija, etc. who made one contribution. It turned out, I said about Mrs. Palavrić, too, did I forget someone, as I was counting. You all know the members of the Commission, but precisely because there was such a correct relationship within the Commission that from one lost situation, we found that we could be satisfied and send from BiH today a message, practically, to the Council of Europe that we adopted that law. That this law is ours, that we don't need the High Representative to impose, practically law and not enter, practically policy into the education system. Therefore, I express one satisfaction and the Socialist Party will support it as an MP. I've said that before, believing that this law is necessary, especially for our children.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8411	Let me just say, for one second, I didn't think the law was lost. I've been waiting for the Commission. There were solutions to come out another way, so better this way. Here you go, Mr. Kragulj. Have Mr. Momčilo Novaković get ready. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8412	Dear colleagues, we, our option, or the SNSD did not question at all, nor had any reservations that this law would be passed within the planned deadline as agreed in the last session. We are all aware that this is a commitment, but even more than obligation and need, and we are aware that we must make this law, that it is not imposed. I'm sure there's never going to be the best law, the best text, but there's an acceptable text as one real compromise if people want to face their thoughts realistically to get to the principle of the final solutions that at this point, I personally think they satisfy all those who have had objections and expressed them through amendments through the Constitutional Commission. I would ask, precisely because I believe that the text is acceptable to all parties to give up further recasting the text through additional amendments because I think that we would then enter into a phase if, in principle, recasting the text of a particular position would do and bring certain options into place that we would step down from that compromise that we have here today to, through the Constitutional Commission, achieve, because I think that there is in principle agreement in this House for this law that came through the Constitutional Commission before the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8413	I thank Mr. Novaković. Have Mr. Nijaz Duraković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8414	If things were to go deeper, they would be based on principles, etc. We could probably find a lot of reasons to make this debate complicated and just adopt the law very complicated. In fact, there is one difference between the need for this law to be passed so at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the principles that are incorporated into this law and after all these alignments, so there may be some controversial moments, but the SDS Club will support the principles on which this law has been done with what, I repeat, we are counting primarily on the obligations that have been accepted by all who have worked on this law so far, and we know that not only the representatives of the international community have worked, but also representatives of the ministries, meaning both cantons and entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why we will support the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8415	Thank you. Mr. Nijaz Duraković. Mr. Belkić, you won't see her then. All right. I'm just asking. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8416	Again, I don't like to talk very much, but to use one metaphor. Brane Miljković sang years ago that it was difficult in the fat ear to stab a gentler word. And that is a wonderful miracle on this committee that we have agreed on several important issues and I suggest the following – I am not a legal expert, and first, and second reading, etc. I suggest that we suddenly make a statement about all the readings, because I think that we have politically agreed and that we have achieved that necessary political consensus and that there is no need to exhaust ourselves on these procedural matters. And I think that's what my colleagues from the BiH Party share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8417	Thank you, Mr. Duraković. So I'm glad there's a consensus on it, and let the procedure go, let me handle the procedure. She has to be satisfied and she's, of course, a very important part of all of this. She'll be satisfied in the shortest possible way. Does anyone else want to talk about this law in the first reading? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We declare the Law in the first reading. Who's up for the law? Did you count the votes? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Just give me the number. I find that the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly unanimously with 37 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, adopted in the first reading of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest we go straight to another reading. I'm asking you who's so we can go with another reading? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? There isn't. I find the predstavnički of Representatives with 37 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, has decided to move immediately into the second reading phase. I'm opening a second reading debate. The second reading refers to the amendments made to the Law. I would like to inform you that there are no amendments to the law that would be relevant for the discussion in the second reading. Namely, there are several amendments that 45 have been tabled by the SDS Club, several, to the amendment of the gentleman, to the amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. There are several amendments to Mr. Momčilo Novaković which have been repeated amendments that have not passed in the phase of the debate on the Constitutional Commission and there are several amendments by Mr. Joza Križanović as repeated amendments that have not passed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. All these amendments did not enter the parliamentary procedure in good time. So neither the first nor the second, nor the third group of amendments, nor the SDS amendment, nor Mr Novaković's amendments, nor Mr Križanović's amendments. The amendments could be submitted by the 4th month at 10 o'clock. The amendments came to Parliament only five arrived yesterday. It is not timely in our rules of procedure, because the deadline is the deadline for the submission of amendments 48 hours before the beginning of the session. So these amendments can't be discussed, and I'm informing you that in the second reading, we don't practically have any amendments. We have the text that we adopted in our first reading. Does anyone want to talk? If no one answers, I'll close the argument. We move on to a statement about the Law in the second reading. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Give me the number. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 37 votes in favour, with no votes against or without abstentions, adopted in a second reading, and thus adopted the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't need to tell you again, so the original text with the amendments to the Constitutional-Legal Commission, corrected, with the verification report that the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission presented behind the speaker today. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you. This is how we ended the first item of the agenda of today's session. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. I would ask that we make, we have suggestions to take a break of 10 minutes to just show up here the people we need, or to let them know, let them come, we can start the debate. Please. Please, nice. I'm taking a break for 10 minutes. Ten minutes break, let the member of the presidency be informed, Mr Tihić. He expressed his desire to come to the session and the other members of the Bureau, of course, and all who should, who were invited to attend the session. We're continuing 10 to 5. 46 ...to take your seats. [[PAUZA]] Of course, in the break, therefore, we were joined by a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, Mr Sulejman Tihić and I, on behalf of the entire House, welcome him. Then we were joined by ministers from the Council of Ministers and Deputys Mr. Slobodan Kovač, Minister of Justice, I am going in turn, Deputy Foreign Minister Lidija Topić, Foreign Minister is absent today in Banja Luka, Minister of Human Rights of Refugees, Immigration and Asylum Mr. Mirsad Kebo and I welcome them, of course. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. The second item of the agenda, we expect to be joined by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, who is on his way to this hall, according to the information I have. The second item of the agenda is Ad. 2. Giving consent to ratification of the US-BiH Agreement concerning the handover of the person to the International Criminal Court of the Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the esteemed guests, you have received this agreement. He arrived in the parliamentary procedure on Tuesday, 2nd of this month, and was immediately distributed to parliamentarians of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. I am opening a debate on ratification under this agreement. Mr. Nijaz Duraković answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8418	I apologize or apologize as you wish, it's not worth showing up here for the third time today, and I'm not going to repeat what I said when I set the agenda. And as I recall, we're about accommodatingly agreed that this serious point, the attention of the whole world is now on us that it deserves at least the attention of our executive bodies. Thank Mr. Tihić for coming to this session, but it would be his turn to come to the entire presidency here. One should even raise the question of the responsibility of our foreign or foreign minister Ivanić, who is not there, etc. I think the debate doesn't make any sense if the executives and in fact whether everything they measurely decide in this country are not present. I've got a lot to say as most people here probably do, but I don't want to discuss it at all. It is my suggestion that you schedule an emergency session with only one item of the agenda - Ratification of this agreement and that we grant the gentlemen mercy, or commit, or somehow bring them to this Parliament because it is their job. And I think this 47 really doesn't make sense. This is the humiliation of this parliament again, its dignity and ultimately its prerogatives. And I'm asking you to put this proposal to a vote by the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8419	Mr. Duraković, I thank you. So the proposal has already been to the vote once. We decided today that this would be the second item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8420	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8421	Sit down, please, sit down. Sir, I'm not forging you at all, Mr. Duraković, so all those who were to be invited are invited. The ones who came are here. The fact that some have not come from this Parliament should draw out messages, but those who are able to answer the questions that will eventually be asked here and we expect Prime Minister Terzić to also come to the hall at any moment. We're moving on with. Here you go, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8422	Mr. Chairman, there is a poor parliament waiting for Terzić. There's nothing left.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8423	Thank you, Mr. Duraković. I just informed you that you have information that I have. Of course I have no right or need to keep anything to myself. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. After that, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8424	I just wanted in terms of what Mr. Duraković was saying, if I could, but okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8425	Mr. Selim Bešlagić, then Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8426	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Presidency, members of the government, dear colleagues. I absolutely support Mr. Duraković's proposal, but allow me to ask a few questions about what is likely to come as a statement on this issue. The Dayton Agreement was created in the United States and it seems to me that there are enough arguments in all of its elements to protect soldiers and diplomats who are in Bosnia and Herzegovina today. Bosnia and Herzegovina is just thanks to the Dayton Agreement one of the most complicated countries, and I think we have enough problems that the President of the United States would have, if anyone had returned to him, realized that Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be exposed to even greater problems. The question is whether any of the Presidencies or members of the Council of Ministers or anyone has addressed the request that we simply see the Dayton Agreement we have all the protective mechanisms and that it really does not expose us to a new temptation to be between hammers and anvils. For this reason, I believe that this proposal could also be the one that would insist that a letter be sent with one of these arguments to the President of the United States of America to Mr Buš and that, possibly, to what we will state whether or not to continue the debate, we will get an answer that might just contribute not to signing this agreement. However, it is up to you to assess the situation we are currently in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8427	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8428	Thank you. In the wake of what Mr. Duraković was saying, so this morning I expressed my thinking as a member of the College, and so was the Club of Representatives to which I belong, so our judgment was that no conditions were created today for the relevant debate in view of the gravity and importance of this issue. And here's the thing. Secondly, we only voted this morning on whether the item will enter the agenda or not. The people we invite didn't even know it was going to be, I don't defend, I don't think there could be any serious debate without them. So if we wanted to prepare the debate in due time, we should have written them in writing that we had put it on the agenda and that we were expecting them and then asked them for responsibility if they did not come. I think it's some logic of things that suggests once again that when we speak we should respect the arguments rather than go exclusively sonic positions that we're going to start, but try to come to a solution here. I continue to plead and what I said this morning is remarkable and one of the most desperate questions for Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that this Parliament is precisely because Mr Duraković said he should show that he has the power to discuss all the important issues related to this agreement, and how he will decide remains at will, but that they should be discussed, because the conventions are serious, I think it was the minimum that we as Parliament should provide. 49 Here again I am staying with the proposal let's put it on the agenda, let's see if today are the real conditions for the debate, can we next week and provide all the elements for a quality debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8429	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mrs. Palavrić, after that. I apologize to Sead, Vice-President Špirić, he has the advantage. Afterwards, he has a vice-president, so you are Sead Palavrić, then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8430	I think there will be tolerance, Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed members of the Presidency, Mr. Tihić, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I think whenever a difficult question comes to Parliament's agenda, we try to find the culprit where he may not be. I think that today in this House, however, we have all those bodies, therefore, both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, so the Minister of Justice, which is a verifuum on behalf of the Council of Ministers, a member of the Presidency who has also given a ton to come to the signing of this agreement. The second thing is whether we ladies and gentlemen have the courage personally as MPs to talk about the essence of the Agreement and to give our clear position regarding the essence of the Agreement is aware that it is not good, of course, that someone is so resolutely asking us a question either Europe or America. A small country that has paid the price of war injuries within and across conflicts must lead a policy of adaptation and response both Europe and America. And I think we have all the conditions tonight, that we won't get a new one except that someone would rather see Mr Ivanić here today, I think that Deputy Ms. Topić can give an answer because he has authorized it. I think the minister of justice can say, I think a member of the presidency Mr. Sulejman Tihić can give us answers. The second is whether we will be satisfied with these answers and whether something will change in seven days related to our position, the position of Parliament, whether someone will change the conditions etc. I followed the press and read the position of the Council of Ministers in which it is said that in such a sharpened form as it was a media article, it should not be a big problem at the Bosnia and Herzegovina and Europe route, and I do not think that what the strongest states are doing, and the relationship between Europe and America will become so severe. I don't think we end up concluding a bilateral agreement with someone who doesn't matter. And perhaps this is the most important agreement that has entered Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament. And I must tell you that the fresh memories of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are for all that Europe and America have done in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we are therefore representatives of different political options and feelings of different electoral bodies and citizens. And our plea will either give passage or not give passage to this agreement. I want to say my personal position, so I think that every session of our Parliament and the Council of Ministers should be what we have done on 50 approaches to Bosnia and Herzegovina to European Euro-Atlantic integration. So the first point so let's see who does it, who doesn't, whether it's a good pace or not. And I don't think that's at all questionable or questionable, either, is our explanation, explanation, and I think we've reached a consensus on that path. But as far as this agreement is concerned, I want to say that, I'm willing to give my vote to ratify this agreement, so I'm going to do that, but not to be told that the ratification of this agreement puts me on one side or the other. Any other agreement that comes from Europe from the United Europe, the EU will also support and I think, of course, I've made in this difficult situation and the things where a man can smile, they may be a little funny, but I think they're also real that the first time in Europe is through America. So I will support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8431	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself. I'm just asking you in order. Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Jovanović, you, Novaković. That's how I looked at that side. I don't know if he checked in here. That's some order. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8432	Well, I must admit that it is rare for Mr Špirić and I to agree on a matter, but today he picked me up most of my intended discussion. I'll just add that we have to stop respecting people who don't come, but people who come. For me, it's all about the people who came. So the minister who signed the agreement, Mrs Topić, who is the legitimate deputy foreign minister and certainly competent to give all the answers we need. Mr Tihić's presidency member, the presidency has proposed ratification of the Agreement, and here we have the prime minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the moment. So, I'm asking the chairman if he can direct the discussions a little bit in the direction of starting to hear the signatories and the promoters first and open the discussion of the metrics, and the discussion of whether this will be the point of the agenda, we ended up this morning and spent quite a bit of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8433	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. It's just that I'm waiting for someone to come forward, I can't call, of course, members of the Council of Ministers if they do, I'll give priority to the MPs right now if someone wants to speak in front of the Council of Ministers. That's the procedure, the advantage of speaking. Yes, it is. Please, nice Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here, you have your word. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8434	Was I wrong to come out?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8435	No, not at all. Here, you have a word. Have Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8436	I'll do it very briefly. So Mr. Duraković clearly alticulated the position of the Party for BiH when it comes to the importance and presence of the promoter in this session. To understand the promoters, i.e. the people who need to explain this, came on demand, not on their own, and not on their own, which is common. So whoever's processing, he's proposing, and so on. It is logical to follow its proposal and make it available to this Parliament. We today have the presence of these people, I Ziasta consider them relevant and competent, but we have them after our call and our debate. So let me get this straight. Furthermore, Mr Špirić is not safe when it comes to the stranka for BiH, including Mr Duraković, the case that we are looking for an alibi in this way by avoiding discussion and the essence of things. We have our own attitude, and of course we will participate. I wanted to explain this a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8437	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. I don't think there's any need for that. Mr. Gligorić. Let him prepare himself. Here comes Mr. Špirić's brief business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8438	I apologize, I didn't really mean the Party for BiH, I didn't mean at all, so I didn't think of anyone individually that I would cause a replica and so I regret if Mr Belkić recognized that I meant the Party for BiH. No, especially I didn't mean Mr. Duraković. So I discussed it in principle, thinking that we had all the conditions to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8439	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Gligorić. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8440	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tihić and the new members who came from the Council of Ministers, I also want to welcome you, with the fact that I've already spoken to you, you haven't been there, I'm glad you came to Parliament. 52 The first question for Mr. Chairman – did we invite these people formally or should they come to the session that they are needed, given that it is an important issue or that curatorial call. Because you know what parliaments are calling for, so he says they were invited, so we welcome them, etc., or it was an assessment of the colleges that these people are necessary, because it is such an important issue for this country. We are exactly by the world now in some way their attention has been directed towards us in anticipation of what we are going to decide today on this bilateral agreement between the US and BiH. I also join Mr. Duraković, Belkić, Professor Špirić and those who spoke, although there was little difference in the fact that people who specifically concern this as people from the Presidency who are leading foreign policy, chaired by the one who should and here today is with us, Foreign Minister, Minister of Justice Mr. Kovač is already there, etc. I don't think there's any more important business in this country than today. And it can't be Mr. Chairman, here's an example for when I'm already looking at him in some of the lower streams, and that's more important to him than today's debate on this important act. Or Mr. Ivanic. What is more important to him in Banja Luka, instead of being here in Sarajevo today, and sending a message either towards the EU or towards the United States or to them together in which we will tell what position we are in. I think it's important and that it's above all respect then and according to this sumam document that's in place. Or the absence is in some way ignoring that same document. If this is ignoring by the Presidency, and it is not complete, by the foreign minister, is this a loss practically, one or one non-diplomatic example of how not to work, or a classical example of how diplomacy should not be conducted. So if you take all this into consideration, it is also important that we ask certain questions here. And so I would suggest that this Parliament address us first, here in this case the letter has fallen on Mr Tihić, to give us input information on what the Presidency has determined to paralyze the practical agreement. The justice minister also for his part and Mr Terzić, given that only a day or two had delivered their opinion on this text. And that still means that now that I see you in Parliament, my colleagues from, say, HDZ and the SDS who have a different opinion. And what does that mean? Mr. Paravac on this text. And that still means that now that I see you in Parliament, my colleagues from, say, HDZ and the SDS who have a different opinion. And what does that mean? Mr. Paravac paraphrases you there, and then you as MPs something that's the opposite of running a policy. Then it's a problem within that party, within those who hold and have how you say it, the technical coalition, it's not some brotherly but technical, then, in that case, come out gentlemen and say that something in that or something is wrong. Therefore, you are required to work synchronised if you exercise authority. And that means that you must have a co-resistance policy towards the public of our citizens, not only the U.S.A. and the EU, in which we will court ourselves in one way or another and, of course, declare ourselves. But what are they, where are our citizens and where is your relationship with our citizens? So he would ask that we first get basic information about what it is that has defined you so that we can get into the measure of things, the essence of the matter in the agreement itself, and then get to the bottom of it. 53 Here is the practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that the executive power, above all the Council of Ministers does it all the time, everything that is problematic they send it nicely to the worse boys, or to the good guys in Parliament. And then we are if something so sensitive is the final result in some way positive or negative. We're in a situation where what you don't have the courage to transfer inside executives so skillfully and play some diplomacy in executive power, and you have to be an operating body. There is no policy within the Council of Ministers, but you have an operational paper that implies clear views in Parliament. And on the basis of such clear attitudes, we identify ourselves. And you pass it along nicely and everything that is bad and cloudy should be resolved here in Parliament and put behind it. It's no problem for me as an MP to take responsibility for that kind of work. But as long as you're actually gonna be the bad guys, and you're texting the international community that you're doing a good job. I therefore believe that Parliament is doing a good job and that the thesis has been completely replaced and that is why I would pray, before other colleagues discuss it that it might be easier for me, too, if I had received information first and on the basis of this information then I could participate in a particular debate. So I'm going to decide later on to talk about the essence of things, but this is the previous one, this is the previous one, the previous question where we can't get into the essence of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8441	I thank Mr. Gligorić. A member of the presidency, Mr Sulejman Tihić, called. I'm the only one who has an announcement from two MPs asking for replicas on this discussion. If you can refrain from the replica, and if you don't, I'll give you my word, of course. Are you staying at the replica? Mr. Novaković and Mr. Zorić. All right, then you agree. The word has a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, Mr Sulejman Tihić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8442	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to really speak here and address the House of Representatives of the Parliament of our state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I have full respect for this home and I believe that, I am convinced that such a relationship is with the other members of the Presidency. Which is why they came today, probably because they didn't know about this item on the agenda that it would be. It was expected, but it wasn't safe. Second Mr. Dragan Čović is in Banja Luka, there is in this Committee on the Welcome of the Holy Father Pope, Mr. Paravac was with me to celebrate State Border Service Day. He stayed at that party. I don't know where he is right now, but I can go on behalf of the Presidency and I want to give the Bureau a reason why we're here. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8443	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8444	So the Presidency in no way wants to reduce and underestimate the importance of this home. Here I am, and I can speak on behalf of the Presidency on behalf of all three members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. You videte, we are like the Presidency by choice, by taking an oath to say so, we have been welcomed, among other things, by this agreement. For a time, like all those who come to power at the beginning, try to leave those hot questions behind for later, and we waited to see what other countries would do, how things would happen, you know, in the neighborhood, etc. How the EU will and what they will say. But time passed. It is simply approaching the 30.6th deadline set by the US law, and we need to make a statement, or countries that are not excluded, and only NATO member states have been excluded and, somewhere early this year, the talks on this agreement have begun with various representatives of the American side, from the US ambassador, and then assistant ministers who have come here and various other delegations. We normally talked and listened to what the EU said. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency officially raised the issue on 12 March and tasked the ministry of justice, the foreign ministry, for the first time to give an opinion under this agreement. After that, at that session, we also created a platform and gave a framework for the conclusion of the Agreement to our delegation in which the frameworks should be moved. And then we made a framework about what the EU itself tolerates. We said to exempt those citizens of the United States who are missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina you know. Our Ministries are on their way to talks, negotiations. It has been shown that this framework is insufficient that the American side cannot be satisfied with that part, that it is seeking a wider exemption. The presidency was held again on 30 April, so it was held on 14 May, and we eventually assumed responsibility there. We didn't want to transfer to anyone else, we wanted to, and we took responsibility and we gave the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an amended platform that we agreed to exempt American citizens from this agreement as stated in point 1. The agreement, as requested by the US government, as well as by former and current military personnel, former and current military personnel and US citizens. This does not normally refer to local staff working, local staff who are Bosnian citizens. Therefore, after all these talks, the Bureau took responsibility and made a decision on the signing of the Agreement on 14 May 16 May, the signatories decided and we did what was up to us. So it was not our intention to transfer responsibility to anyone else. We think when we just make a decision, do you sign the agreement or not? You know, we used to manage the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first place. What are the consequences of signing, what are the consequences of not signing the Agreement? In short, unless we sign the agreements, it means in a certain way that the US will withdraw from Bosnia and Herzegovina. In any case, from this military part, 55 later from economics, and you know that the Dayton Agreement has not been fully implemented, in order to significantly complicate the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If there was more to be done, that the role of America in Bosnia and Herzegovina and before and now irreplaceable, that without America, it would be harder and worse. On the other hand, we could have as a consequence to say one criticism of the EU, one of their misunderstandings that we deviate from European standards. We have neither been announced nor threatened by any sanctions in the dispute, etc. So the presidency was, the arguments were far stronger on the side of signing the agreement. America should stay here, be present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to complete this process of the Dayton Agreement, implementation, there and signed. His withdrawal would, we can't predict what the consequences of the negative would have for Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know, both security and economic and political, etc. This is where the EU does not stay, they do not announce and there has been no day-to-day consequences in terms of any slowdown in our entry into European integration. They said it is contrary to European standards, that it is not in line with the EU's position. I was in Brussels myself, maybe before the Bureau decided, and there I talked for one dinner about everything. There were maybe 5-6 commissioners, and I said that we would most likely do it and sign the agreement and ratify it, because it is our interest, the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we all need to consider it as the first time we make a decision. And I've seen from those reactions that they're not very happy, but what's there is, they understand us, they understand the position and the situation we're in. Therefore, I think that the Presidency has done what was required to do, to make a decision on the signing, the adoption of that agreement, that it is in the interest of all citizens, that it is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have taken responsibility, therefore, for any possible consequences, although I see nothing in the appearance that could slow Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into Euro-Atlantic interactions. Not signing the agreement could have been reflected in US military withdrawal, denying economic assistance, the issue of partnership for peace, today NATO tomorrow, etc. And here we got to say one criticism, one disdain that was directed not only to us, but to all and those other countries that would possibly follow our example and most likely sign that agreement, you know. You know that already some countries from Albania, I don't know Rumunija did this. We expect that this and our neighboring countries, I don't know how many others will be able to withstand the pressure. But you should also know that in this agreement it is said that it can be broken up within 12 months whenever any party wishes it, unilaterally. The agreement states that we will not hand over American citizens without US consent, so in the end, the US policy is changing. Maybe they'll change politics, and sometimes they'll be consensual. This agreement states that America is bound to prosecute these people and that they will answer there in front of U.S. courts. We need to wait and see how things go, and in that sense. Therefore, I, on behalf of the Presidency, also propose to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, tomorrow to the House of Peoples to support decision 56 of the Presidency and of the Council of Ministers to ratify this agreement, because it is indeed the only right solution, because it is in the interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. I'm willing to give answers to questions if they're in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8445	I thank Mr. Sulejman Tihić, a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Mr. Duraković, go ahead. Mr. Duraković. Here you go, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8446	I thank Mr. Tihić for this rather exhaustive explanation, but there are also a few things that should simply be politically discussed whether it is. It does not matter to me whether this Parliament is going to green light for the ratification of this agreement or not. Unfortunately, I was saying this morning, the key questions are yes, as long as the government let's say that... Bosnia and Herzegovina without testing the will of the people, without testing the will of this parliament, etc., sign some things in advance. I don't have the right to do that simply. It's illegal and illegal. That's the first question. That doesn't even have the presidency. You're talking about the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't like to talk ad personem, but let's say I have a four-member family. My wife and two daughters are citizens of America. I'm a endangered minority. So I'm the last one who would be against that America's interest, right? But I'd like to ask you a few questions since unfortunately you're the only one on duty outside the presidency. You are here as a member of the Presidency as the highest body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I have always considered you and I believe that we expect the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to defend, above all, the sovereignty and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not even the Republic anymore, because we sold it too. Everyone knows how important America is to us, all they have to do is explain it to fools. America must be the greatest and most significant force in the world. It is key both in political and economic and military and in any other respect in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the end, she has her own troops. It has also used its influence and NATO power and what you say and partnership for peace and project equipment and clothing and many other things. It has also provided support for the IMF and all that is key to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its survival and is not at all controversial. And no one's here against the American mood. But I said this morning why this great great power, the greatest power of the world. Which brings us into a position of condescending, humility, colonial position, misery and misery. Why does she need our signature? Because on the other hand, neither is the EU to ignore Mr. Tihić. 15 EU countries do not know who helped Bosnia more and helped us and where our perspective is either in America or in the EU. And they sent us a letter. It's not true we don't know that. It was published by the brothers in the press. From the EU presidency. That's a nice word. None of the 15 members of the EU will accept 57 what Americans are asking to exclude from criminal, possible criminal responsibility. Well, as much as Germany was worth to us, for instance. Our brotherly Austria, or Holland, or France, or Britain, or Spain, or Italy, or Sweden, etc. I don't want to pick it up. Is 15 EU members now against the dictatorship of the United States? But that's not the real question either. The real question is that this is about a moral political problem. Could Bosnia and Herzegovina as the most wrong country in the 20th century, a country that experienced such a terrible genocide, experience such destruction, such killings, etc. who seeks, in vain, to seek justice, to seek international law, to seek not only The Hag, but to seek the application of justice and justice, can it now amnesty one other country and seek a place for one another? So this is a moral and political question of a couple of excellencies. It's not a question of judgment anyway. In the end, you shouldn't have run out before the ore and forgive these ladies all here together, underpants before the time to take off. It could have been a little bit of a thought, a little bit of a different explanation, even to explain to the Americans, leaving us poor little voices of poor Bosnia and Herzegovina, wrongly broken down, humiliated, offended, doesn't mean anything to one mighty great America. Or maybe it means that we are going to resent the entire EU and are already sending us letters in this regard. After all, you should have made a little consultation first and seen when you were talking about citizens. You said in one sentence the interests of the BiH citizens. Have you tested them? Do you have reliable indicators of what our interests are? Well, let's just say my interest isn't exactly what you sign, but here it is. At least I have three American citizens in my family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8447	I thank Mr. Duraković. Who else wants to talk? Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8448	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am aware that the MPs of this House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are trying best to respond to the task, the task they received by taking an oath in the Parliamentary Assembly. But I would also ask you to be aware that we in the Council of Ministers and I as chairman and ministers have our tasks that we simply must respect and do. Thus, if one of us is not in the congregation session, it does not mean that it is our relationship with the congregation, but our relationship with our assignments. And I have to tell Mr Gligorić that perhaps it is exactly the place where, among other things, it can be achieved that those 2 million KMs that the Parliamentary Assembly has ultimatically requested in the rebalancing for an increase should be found somewhere. Maybe that's where he is, so it's no big deal if one of us jumps in there and tries to get it. So, to know that someone in this country has to ask for those funds. 58 When it comes to what the Council of Ministers has done under this agreement, we have done what we could only do, which is to implement the Presidency's views on foreign political relations, that through the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we begin negotiations with this US Embassy on the basis of a platform adopted by the Presidency. Mr Tihić, a member of the presidency, explained very closely what was going on here. I only managed to track down a number of MPs this morning asked to explain to me why some differences in the date of the signing, ratification of the Council of Ministers' sessions, etc. Look, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, I organise the work of the Council of Ministers and we choose the best and most effective way to make our decisions. Therefore, I am responsible, and so can my associates confirm that everything in the legal procedure for signing any agreement is respected. The Council of Ministers says that this agreement should be ratified, and it is up to you to take responsibility and say your opinion, have we checked with the citizens or not? And you know why we didn't? Because, among other things, this home and the House of People is exactly where it's being checked with citizens. So we had clear views of the presidency. And you've been sent by citizens to check all the content of this agreement together. You have an agreement, let's sit down and discuss this text of the Agreement. There's only one thing I'd like to say. I noticed today in the debate, I think there are certain MPs who are suggesting there's some fox in the woods here and now they're trying to drive her out. Right, there's a fox. But I'm responsible for this case better if the fox stays in the woods than if we forced her out. So it's crystal clear. It is crystal clear that Bosnia has again, that it is in the collision of two forces, two policies. We can't change them, nor can we do anything, no matter what they say today or how they are determined according to the ratification of the Agreement. So the fox exists. I think we have found a measure of how to determine our relationship with the United States, but also towards the EU. We're aware of the danger, but let the fox stay in the woods. We don't have to drive everyone out of the woods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8449	I thank Mr. Adnan Terzić. Mr Miloš Jovanović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8450	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have appeared earlier precisely for the reason that our present leaders here tell us whether it has been done enough and whether there has been enough wisdom that perhaps in some diplomatic negotiations to explain to the United States that they understand the situation and the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 59 So the fundamental question is, what does this agreement mean for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what does it mean for the United States? I don't think it's enough to say wisdom, strength and knowledge to really explain what kind of situation we are in if we have to sign this agreement. But by the time I get back, I'll keep going. What we're about to do today, I don't think it's going to be the first time or the last time that we're humiliated. When I say to me, I mean this home primarily, and very often we are guilty of ourselves and demeaning ourselves. We are humiliated when an MP from this home invites the High Representative to bring some peacetime constitution. We are humiliated when Bosnia and Herzegovina is a senior deputy High Representative related to some co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and this state has not responded and has done nothing. We are also humiliated when this state or this assembly does not respond when the president of the state is forced to resign. These are all meanings in some way our guilt and it doesn't take much to criticize someone else. And by this agreement, I think double standards are being introduced. On the one hand, the United States is asking Bosnia and Herzegovina to co-operate unconditionally with The Hague, and on the other hand, Bosnia and Herzegovina is required to exempt itself from the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court of American citizens. Is it moral and is it ultimately legal? I am simply afraid and I am afraid that perhaps tomorrow the Council of Europe or the EU, or the Council of Europe, says primarily - what you are doing does not deserve to be members of the Council of Europe and may say, perhaps to shut us down. I say realistically, so I'm saying it's a real danger with vision, meaning the EU's reaction to this agreement. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8451	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Now. No, no, I won't, I'll talk later. Mrs. Palavrić asked for a word, I apologize to Sead. You spoke once before. It's been coming along for a little while now, Mr. Novaković. I'm wrong about him, then you are. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then it's you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8452	Ladies and gentlemen, probably if we were to talk here today under other circumstances, or if we should secretly circle, without knowing who's rounding what's round, that the outcome of today's vote would be very different than it will be. That fact itself says that what we're about to do today probably doesn't suit any of us. And probably none of us are gonna do it because he thinks so. That's why I don't think any testing of citizens should have been done, because they think so too. Because we'd make it difficult for ourselves to test them because then the results of that test here would have to be realized, and they would be disastrous for Bosnia and Herzegovina. 60 I do not think that anything here should have explained to us either to clarify or to clarify either a member of the Presidency or the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the minister of justice who signed it. I don't think it's because I guess they think it's the same thing because I guess their dilemma was when they discussed this like we did today. And of course the result is the same as this one from this conversation today. I still can't, if I didn't say some dilemmas here, because I don't know how to get out of here and if I had raised my hand without even saying what I was thinking. And that's why I'm gonna say what I'm thinking, and I'm gonna vote the way I don't think. What is certainly bad today is one dilemma that has been here several times, and that is who is for America and who is for America. And I think it's bad and we don't vote in that direction who's for America, and who's for the EU, but we're trying to save what little can be saved, if there's one thing that can be saved at all, and I think there's something that can be saved. We don't need to talk about this agreement, because really if we were to talk about it getting into its essence, we'd find a lot of things we don't agree on. I must say, it's only good in this agreement that can be broken. And that's what's going to make me vote for him. Of course, I don't mean here, although I was thinking of replicating Mr. Gligorić, because he was trying to find a reason to vote, too. So we're in the same trouble and then I don't want to replicate it. I am also comforted that this is not about Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is about the US-EU relationship. And that what we do doesn't have much to do with us. And that there is actually a bigger problem here in the EU and it comforts me because the EU has no power to make it absolutely clear whether or not we are ratifying this agreement. They send us signals, but signals to some special lines, some organizations, etc. And of course, when I vote on this, then I won't take care of the double standards of international justice, where for one thing is a sacred letter, another dead letter. I won't take care of justice or justice, even though I know that American laws don't treat crimes the same way as this criminal court. I will not take full care of the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I am not entirely sure what we are interested in with regard to the EU's views. I will also not talk about it, and I will not even consider that what it says in the Agreement is contrary to the spirit and the letter of the Roman Statute. When I vote, I won't care that only Albania has ratified this agreement. As far as I'm concerned, I saw in the report that neither did she. Since I'm not going to take care of all this, then I'm going to vote quietly and lightly for this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8453	Thank you. Please, please. Mrs. Seada Palavrić answered her word. Let him prepare Mr. Milorad Živković seems to have contacted me before you do. Milorad Živković seems to have contacted me before you, and then you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8454	I'm saying that despite everything, I don't feel humiliated, because I'm doing a job for which the citizens have chosen me and what's in front of us today is in line with the law on the conclusion of international agreements. I must also say that the previous government did not resolve this question. I thought it was really hot potatoes. However, when I compared the text to what Bosnia and Herzegovina did, it is not such a big, hot potato. Why? If you take the Agreement signed you will see that it is said with a specific reference to the provisions of Appendix b) with Annex Ia of the Dayton Agreement. And we can't behave like any country. So we have a General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina from Dayton, which, in particular, at point 7 of Appendix B) in Annex Ia) says -- NATO military personnel will, in all circumstances and at all times, be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of their national elements, in respect of criminal and disciplinary offences that may possibly begin in BiH. NATO and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina will assist each other in exercising their respective competences. And this whole annex is talking about other segments. So not just military personnel. And I really now understand this agreement as the realisation of the Dayton Agreement. I can't help it. I also had the impression that the agreement in the media presents itself as if American citizens were actually amnesty for any crimes. However, the agreement clearly states that they are not amnesty, that they comply with national legislation and that even their extradition and the criminal court are possible internationally, with the exclusive consent of the United States. So this agreement really isn't what it says in public. Why is it important, these steps and speed important? The fact that this agreement takes effect after the exchange of notes when we do so, unless we decide in time whether to ratify this agreement or not. And the specific segment that is here is the relevant relationship between the EU and the United States on this issue. One of our colleagues today said the fastest way into the EU is through America. I was in Brussels 10 days ago with Mr Radovanović and Raguž at the 4th Parliamentary Conference of the Stability Pact and attended by both the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly of which I was a member. We had the honour of Bosnia and Herzegovina being among the 15 members present there. I have already said there the reasons why Bosnia and Herzegovina will sign this agreement and ratify it and in my opinion the EU has been deeply aware of its responsibilities towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the fact that some people have come and congratulated and that some people that 62 have actually not challenged what I said I conclude that the EU will have quite enough understanding for this procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why on behalf of the SDA Club in this house, I say that we will support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8455	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković, and after that, I would have applied a little bit if you'd give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8456	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss this very important agreement, I hope you share my opinion that we have come to an uninvited position for, as Parliament. In fact, we are between two blocks, between two bad options, whether we should object to America or the EU, and the fact is that the agreement we have ahead of us is basically taken or left without any change. As a responsible man and an MP here, I'd like to know who put us in such a position. And that is one of the reasons and perhaps the most important reason why I insisted today that this point of the agenda come to this Parliament for us to discuss and establish responsibility. The fact is that we have found that a partial infringement of the procedure for the adoption of this agreement has been broken, and I do not think that this Parliament has been sufficiently involved in the adoption of this agreement itself. I also think that we have established that the Council of Ministers and the Presidency has hurried unnecessarily with the signing of this agreement. For this reason, I believe that it will be my proposal that, on the other hand, the Agreement that we must bring, we must also sign it, that we do not bring it up until the meeting is over in Thessaloniki, and that this would be a negative message to Europe that, meanwhile, the Commission of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this Parliament is considering this document, that it should explain to me whether constitutional principles exist, whether the Constitution in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been violated with this document and that our commission is manifesting itself about this, and that the Presidency finds a way before the end of this month when the deadline expires, we must ratify this agreement to call again a special session and to discuss this document. I want that proposal to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8457	The speaker, Mr. Džaferović, picked up the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8458	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, members of the State Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, 63
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8459	I'm asking you to listen to your fellow chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8460	Mrs. Seada Palavrić, as president of the party I belong to, presented the party's position. I, of course, support the position of the SDA Club I belong to, but I feel the need to personally state the reasons why I think today's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina should agree to ratify this agreement. President Tihić has made quite a broad explanation from which all those who wish to judge in a responsible manner in this situation can make appropriate and true conclusions. It is not a question today before the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives why this is being asked of us. That's not the question we need to give an answer to. It was requested from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We today, taking care of the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, must answer the question – what is the interest and what is the damage to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can responsibly argue that it would be a great shame for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina if we today were to deny the ratification of this agreement, consent to ratification of this agreement. And as an MP, since it is my obligation to take care first of all of my country's interests I will therefore manage my country's interests and vote for ratification, for ratification of this agreement. When, on the other hand, we look at the legal basis related to this agreement and then when we engage in an analysis, when we get rid of any persuasion, we read the Agreement, we bring it into contact with international legal acts, then we will see that there is a legal basis. It's contained in Article 98. The statute, contained in Annex I (a) of the Dayton Peace Agreement, is contained in bilateral contracts that Bosnia and Herzegovina already has with the United States. In such a situation, I know that the views of Europe and the United States on this matter have been countered. So it's a familiar thing to me, but Bosnia and Herzegovina, someone said it here for a pay phone, is a state that, we can freely say in relation to some specific state compared to other countries in Europe. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the state in which the Dayton Peace Agreement is implemented and that has both Americans and other military forces present under the Dayton Peace Agreement. The specification is therefore Bosnia and Herzegovina and I hope and I am confident that the EU will also understand our reasons and respect these specificities and specifics relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina should join the EU and our path is a European path. We don't have another time. But Bosnia and Herzegovina should also enter a partnership for peace and the NATO Pact. Bosnia and Herzegovina needs both Europe and America. At this point, by refusing consent or not giving consent to ratification, America will be 64. That he would leave BiH. Who can take responsibility for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In that case, and for that variant. I can't take it from here. I believe that America in BiH, not wanting to repeat everything that has been said so far, has done so much in BiH, and, I think that America should stay in BiH and I will, it is the interest of my country and I, primarily managing the interests of my country, will give a voice for the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8462	I thank Mr. Chairman. Who's next to the word? Mr. Professor Petar Kunić, then Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8463	I apologize, I apologize to you. Mr. Jozo Križanović is now on his way, after which Mr. Ćeman, and then Mr. Kunić. That's what they called me. I haven't been able to tell you, so you made a mistake by my mistake. Here comes Munib.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8464	Mr. Tihić, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8465	Louder, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8466	I will, indeed, be very brief, given that very many colleagues have spoken and that we, I think, have devoted this problem to the adoption of the agreement with almost all aspects. What is the fact that BiH will again be in the world media tomorrow, regardless of the result of our vote on this agreement. It doesn't seem to me to be a colleague of Belkić, already known in the world who did it and who was going to do it and, of course, it's not a harmless decision at all. So it's a very delicate decision, where we've been put in a position to choose between, I'd say politics of morality, policies of justice, humanity etc. And some, let's put it harshly, real politics. We cannot ignore the addressing of world humanitarian organisations, even the attitudes of some of the countries of the Council of Europe, when it comes to our decision on this. However, of course, I am also very pleased with our relationship and the seriousness of this home, when it comes to such a delicate decision. Before I say anything about how I'm going to define myself, I want to say again that we've been put in a position to take over this most important political role, or decision. This morning, speaking of including this item on the agenda, I said 65 that the Council of Ministers is in general, I would dare say the BiH Presidency, not enough to do that to the citizens of BiH, I would also say to the members of the Council of Europe, to try to bring this problem closer to us and to say what position we are in, and what kind of coincidences may arise for us, determining positively or negatively under this agreement. One more thing I would suggest, the Council of Ministers has again put us in a position to put this on the agenda. We got the letter, I'm sorry there's no chairman here, and we all have it here, dated 2.06, where it's said that the Council of Ministers has agreed to a decision on the agreement, and we all know that yesterday, in the afternoons, the Council of Ministers was only discussing it. So, in various ways, however, it was hoped that the political decision would definitely be made in this home, not definitely, of course, it is being made and given approval for ratification, but simply that we did not get close enough to the BiH citizens. Therefore, deeply convinced that we will be in a position, adopting, dynamically adopting a lot of laws, reform and agreements, in relation to the Council of Europe, I propose that we conclude and realize that we are in such a position with the Council of Ministers and that the future will be as little as possible. Secondly, regardless of our decision, I would like to make this decision on the adoption of this agreement, we find that we remain as BiH, committed to European standards and our commitment to Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8467	I thank Mr. Križanović. Now the word has, if possible, Mr. Ćeman, Mr. Kunić and then you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8468	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have a feeling that our situation today might be applied to the familiar one, if you take it, you'll regret it, if you don't take it, you'll regret it. For a decision, at least those who have dilemmas for the reasons already said here should certainly have a reliable assessment of what the European Union's definitive position on this matter is and whether it is only about the recommendations that have been heard through the media or what we have heard in one way or another. In any case, it encourages here the already expressed attitude of all who have said that, of course, as far as we are concerned, the US dilemma or the European Union is concerned. The commitment is, of course, good relations, co-operation with both the United States and the European Union. That, of course, is not controversial. Today, however, a decision needs to be made, in a situation where we, objectively, cannot claim with certainty what they will be, and whether this is the European Union's definitive position, and clearly the US's position on this matter. But here we have seen and realized that there are even, at least from materials that we have received from some NGOs, even opposing legal views for the legal basis of such an agreement. So, is Article 98. Rome's statutes are 66 basics for something like this. And, perhaps, it's confusing for those who, or want to calm their consciences and with, without legal dilemmas, make a statement about this issue, but the fact that, therefore, there are different legal views on the matter, in the general or narrow public, and I've been watching a little bit and I can tell you that there are, therefore, and that. But, of course, there are those who are insolent with attitude. But the situation is still next. We've been brought into a position to make a decision and, therefore, I think I can rightly conclude that the position of all those who, in the best or less good intentions, are legal, logical, etc. over the legal, political, moral or other aspects of this problem. It is, of course, a very comfortable position, but it is the position of those who have no responsibility for making a decision. We have the responsibility of those who make decisions. Without the intention that in some, of course, in detail, it can't possibly qualify that way, I simplify it, but, therefore, it seems to me that in some aspects, almost as in some years ago, when we had to qualify for the current Yugoslav issue at the time, who understands such a thing, which means such a decision, what such a status quo could not be maintained, the decisions had to be made. From a time point of view of ten years, someone today argues that this was the right decision or the right decision. Whoever's in the first historians will, of course, say it. It is not certain to say immodestly that, perhaps, if, indeed, the uncompromising attitudes of these two are, and I say, the great forces today, that someone may and whatever decision we make today is to say, that we have made a mistake, either way, depends on how anyone pleads. Why did I have to say this before I even said my position? For the sake of repeating once again the view that, indeed, an easy position is informal or formal, but without the responsibility of making a decision, to argue in favour of or against. But I accept as a member of this Parliament that, given everything you have said, you have not said, what I have read or heard, I express my position. I think it's smaller, if there's any damage to BiH and to all of us here today, so it's less damage at the very least to accept this agreement. I am, therefore, to accept the agreement, aware of what I said at the beginning. The argument in favor and for or against, but the time is so, obviously, that if we have to, if anything because of those who will sometimes comment on all this, say that our decision wasn't just that simple either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8469	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Petar Kunić. Let Mr. Munib Jusufović be prepared and we have another registered Mr. Raguž and that is all that has been reported. I'd ask the MPs to enter the O.R. We are approaching, therefore, the moment when a decision should be made. Please, let's all be present here. This is where we're supposed to be. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8470	The Honorable Presidency, 67, I, on occasion, was already on the subject of this agreement this morning. I don't think we have many different solutions, but we accept an agreement. It's not as important for Europe as it is for America, as important for us as this issue is. Therefore, we must be aware of these facts. I agree with those that this agreement contains both a moral and legal and political and economic dimension. Probably if we were to run an analysis of one, the other and the third, we'd find a lot of elements that wouldn't have been accepted. But, my Bog, even in the animal farm, if you read, all animals are not equal, some are more equal. So, the situation is here too. Therefore, we should probably bring the discussion to an end. I think the executive authority has well balanced the relationship, has found some philabri and the Presidency and Council of Ministers and is giving one solution that is acceptable and I join those who think we will benefit more than damage. Europe will, for sure, be sure to have an understanding of our, indeed, specific situation and I don't think we have any alternative solutions here. We will vote in favour of this agreement from the PDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8471	Thank you. Mr. Munib Jusufović. Let's get Mr. Martin Rguž ready and then we'll go to the plea. You're a mess. I've closed the debate. I don't know. I didn't see you answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8472	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, it seems to me that today is both a difficult and very simple discussion. On occasion, all my predecessors, who have spoken about this issue with every man, can agree. Everyone spoke from their position, from their angle, given the weight of the task, etc. The truth in the driveway exists, from an opportunity of two different approaches. Some of them tried to convince themselves at all costs, how this should be accepted. One of them was persuading, and each had dilemmas. Some of them knew they'd accept this, but they justified the reasons why maybe we shouldn't accept it. They're right about each other. I will not enter the internal content of the agreement, for one basic reason, if we enter, it seems to me that Mr. Terzić was right, the question of how much we will explain to ourselves. However, I am in line with those who, I want to say, that I was a member of the presidency, here is Mr Tihić, on behalf of the Presidency, fully explained why and how, etc., I would do the same thing immediately to say. If I were a member of the minister, who's in charge, I'd do the same thing again, but to be honest, if we vote for this agreement today, we're gonna make a big mistake, be sure we will. We will make mistakes for moral, political reasons, justice, equality, etc. But if we vote against this agreement today, we're gonna make a big mistake again, for purely practical, pragmatic reasons. So, the dilemma is being raised, that's one Hamlet question. What to do. There's nothing else, we're aware that today, because we have to, not because we're quite convinced to vote, we're all going to vote, taking care of everything. But we're going to vote, I guess we and 68 here are going to be almost unanimous, and each of us is going to explain why it did it. That's right, so anyone can explain to themselves why it's for or against, it doesn't matter, it's the internal question. But it seems to me that we can, in a certain way, at least make some balance, because here we really have to fast one principle question, they're right to say. This is neither the vote for support nor the United States nor the European Union. That would be the wrong way. Because if we do, this agreement is completely different, which may go over our backs. If we were to talk about the merits of the United States then it would really take a few days to, at least most of us, explain with a fat argument what they are, what America did for BiH, and I certainly belong to the order of those people who, with much to say, would have a lot to say. Maybe there are some who have less to say or more remarks. On the other hand, what the European Union has also done, is our path is also a European path, etc. I think there's a middle solution. We're going to vote for this agreement today anyway, I'm saying it's a fact, that's right. And that there is a long, long way ahead of us to adopt the laws of reform those set by Europe. Therefore, by voting for this agreement, we may come into conflict in cohesion with ourselves, but we will vote for nothing, but by justifying Europe in such a way that those tasks and objectives, which we have set by adopting all these laws, so in a certain way, we will fast some balance and, on the occasion of that is my proposal, I say, as much as I would like to be on a break, but I will not, for these reasons, because neither could the Presidency, nor could the Council of Ministers, need us either. So what's there is and I'll vote for the deal, with all these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8473	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Please, nice. I have two other debaters, Vice-President Raguž and Sead Avdić, and then we will conclude the debate. I don't have any more records to discuss. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. I ask that MPs be informed to enter the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8474	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Tihić, members of the Council of Ministers, I think it's my turn to say for which, no matter what some think, we all know how we're going to vote, it's no longer a question of this agreement. I personally want to, and I'm saying that as a representative in this house, not predicating even these formal positions I'm acting on. So, I think we've been given a lot of reasons, but I don't think those arguments have been presented by one important segment, and that's why I called for a discussion, which is that BiH signed the Rome Statute of the Criminal Court. We're not talking about it at all. We have accepted an international act, which for the first time in history establishes a court, which should respect justice in world contexts. After the Ninberg and the ad-hoc tribunal of the one we have, we now know that we are not talking about him in The Hague, this is the first time, therefore, that a single court instance is being established on 69 global world plans, which should sanction crimes everywhere in the world. And, of course, not only have we signed, but as an international law subject, we also have obligations to act in accordance with the international agreements and agreements that we sign and that kind of speaks about whether we have credibility and how we ourselves treat international law and what we sign. I'm just saying this as one of the elements of the debate and I think it's good to know today. The other thing I'd like to say is, I don't feel any pressure on America. They have their views, their interests and, of course, I want to, as well as all of you here to say, we appreciate what they did and what they do for BiH. It is certainly the interest of BiH to have qualitative relations and to continue to receive US support. I also don't think this is a European Union issue. As far as I've seen the guidelines show only the fact that, given the commitments and the signed agreement, guidelines have been left in the context of which, possibly, exceptions could be red. Obviously, we have failed in negotiations to achieve this maximum from the guidelines, but as far as I can see from our negotiators, they have made some shifts in relation to these guidelines, and that must be said for the sake of correctness. So the negotiators have tried to do, draw the maximum of what the European Union has drawn. However, I think this is no longer a question of this agreement, this is a question of whether BiH can come to a situation with such institutions, which... first come from its own subjectivity and dignity and its position in the international order. It's obviously still a long and demanding way for Bosnia and Herzegovina and all of us. That's why I called the most. The second thing, we are, and I remind you of that perhaps for the first time, at least as far as I remember, we have achieved a full political consensus if we all stay with it, both of the homes of this assembly that it is the largest and that it is strategic foreign policy, not just the external political priority of Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU path. So not only do we expect words, I think, but also deeds. So here and that should be determined if we want to conclude one thing, and in practice make a certain kind of ad hoc deviation from that plan, we need to know and what the consequences of such steps are. And they won't be very simple, but I'd like to draw one conclusion from all of this. Regardless of the strength and power of the United States, regardless of what the EU may be in the 21st century, the only real counterweight if it succeeds in making this internal concept of unification. We necessarily need to stand behind the fact that power doesn't have to mean absolute laying of the right to have a total legal order. I think we can say that. Secondly, I think we can also say that it would be good if we were also involved in the process of redefining power in the world that would respect small and less capable, but also respect their subjectivity. Here I wouldn't, I think most of us, I mean that's what we're thinking, and we don't need to just take this as our own negative dimension. I am in the conversations I have said these days – gentlemen, the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina is what it is now. That doesn't mean she'll be 10 or 15 years from now. It's up to us to return this subjectivity and 70 self-respect. But it's up to us. It's neither America nor the EU. This is really up to us and here I mean, I want to say, I have proposed to Mr. Chairman that conditions be created for a better debate, for the work of committees and the ustavno-pravni and Legal Commission for Foreign Affairs. But here's the majority decided and, of course, that according to this and the conclusions that are made here, we should continue to act with respect to the fact that it is not, we should not transfer everything to relations between the United States and the EU, to the pressure of the United States, but to the fact that we will once, in the name of ourselves, in the name of our right, in the name of our sovereignty, even though he was limited to the Dayton Peace Agreement, always say that's the final thing, we have no choice. One day when we decide to make a decision on, by handling primarily our own institutional and other interests, I think we will then show that we are a mature and possible integral part of the international legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8475	Thanks to Mr. Raguž. Mr. Sead Avdić, then we're going to a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8476	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected Mr. Bureau member, I would also like to express my opinion on the simple agenda today, that is, the second item of the agenda, that is, the bilateral agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States. Namely, it is necessary to release these dramatic events immediately and simply to make it quite clear – it is a false thesis, simply that the adoption of the Agreement sets uncritical Bosnia and Herzegovina simply towards the United States, ignoring and simply forgetting our obligations to the European community. Or, on the other hand, so to the European community, etc. Which means it's an artificial question and you don't need to be burdened with it. Bosnia and Herzegovina has clearly pointed out its orientation towards European integration and Euro-Atlantic associations, and there is not much empty and maneuvering space. Secondly, in one meeting with the presidents of the US administration, most of the almost unique political champions of the parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina stood behind this agreement, and that was quite clear, explicit stopped. At that time, there were no such contradictions as are present at the level of the House of Representatives, but one fundamental fact has been said – Bosnia and Herzegovina is still a country in transition, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a self-sustaining state. The fundamental fact of the meeting, I repeat it once again, is that the self-sustaining Bosnia and Herzegovina means peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, needs US soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that should be made quite clear. They need American soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which means that if we took an oath and we simply work in the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then this is an objectively fragmented interest that should simply break these moral and political controversys that are hidden with each of us. Conscious of the facts, people are aware that we are violating obligations under 71 international law, aware of the fact that we are violating obligations under the Roman Statute, aware of the fact that we are violating obligations under the European Charter of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Conscious of these facts, but simply quite clearly to the people and to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to tell, the choice was such and we opted simply for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina as it is. Which means I'm clearly expressing my position. There is still no self-sustaining Bosnia and Herzegovina without NATO pact and US troops in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's quite a clear, clear message, and in that context I think this has all been useful, etc. However, the objective termology that has been used, I apologize that in this way, I will not vote with my head, I will ignore all of this, etc. I'll raise my hand, I shouldn't be present, I ask that with full responsibility and consciousness we vote for this agreement and simply express our opinion. It is possible that there were mechanisms and instruments to make it simply fairer, to find a more honorable way out of this situation for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this context perhaps to seek the political will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina through a referendum, etc., but it is already too late today. The House of Representatives is extremely late involved, and in that sense, I absolutely don't have a lot of maneuver space with everything we've said today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-06-0.u8477	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Please, if one of the MPs isn't in the O.R. yet, I'm inviting him in the O.R. one last time. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I ask the MPs who are to give consent to the ratification of the US-BiH Agreement on the handover of the person to the International Criminal Court? Who's in? Please just chart green is valid as for. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. Give me the results. The results of the vote are as follows. Of the 33 MPs present, 31 voted yes, held 2, there is no one against. Let's just see on the entities. Let's just spend the rest of the procedure. Please from the Federation who is? No, don't lift, please this is, this is what you need. From the Federation who's in favour? Let it count. Please write me down just on this paper. Thank you. Yeah, it's numbered. Thank you very much. 72 From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Did you count it? So the full results of the vote look like this. Of the 33 MPs present, 31 voted in favour, 2 were abstentions, against no MPs. So the ratification agreement has general parliamentary support. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted for 20, which is more than 1/3, from Republika Srpska voted 11th, which is also more than 1/3. I therefore find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given its consent to ratify the US-BiH Agreement on the handover of the International Criminal Court. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted today's session agenda this way. We'll see you if it's 27th this month at the new House of Representatives session. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 18.45 minutes.
