ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u800	I'm opening the 9th session of the House of Peoples. For the 9th session, I propose the next agenda. Declaration by the People's House on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 2. Decision on proposing the appointment of members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy This is the proposal. Who's answering for the agenda? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u801	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I, of course, support the proposed agenda, bearing in mind the importance of the points and the need for urgent resolution of these issues, but allow me one intervention at the beginning of the agenda and one agenda proposal. First of all, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, I want to take the opportunity to strongly condemn the verbal attacks on Cardinal Puljić and Bishop Komarica, who happened in Sarajevo the past days. It is not in the interest of Sarajevo, or Bosniaks, or any nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor is it in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever did this is to harm, against Sarajevo, against Bosniaks, against all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and against Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, we also call on media representatives to contribute to the adequate treatment of this issue in the media and of course it is not contributed in a way that this incident that happened is used as a representation of a general state that is not a characteristic of Sarajevo. So it would be an intervention, I thank you for the opportunity to have been able to say this. 2 And I have one proposal of a personal nature to supplement the agenda. This would be the point of the agenda – Decision to suspend the last decision of the Administrative Commission on salaries. Reason – You are aware that the Council of Ministers in last session made a decision to increase the salaries of members of the Council of Ministers in such a way that the pension base of a member of the Council of Ministers and even the Deputy Minister almost twice as large as the pension basis of the MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is, of course, one state that is not suitable for Bosnia and Herzegovina's opportunities, nor is practice anywhere in the world, and of course there was a need to bring it together. The following needs and the good intentions of the administrative board of both homes have long ago made decisions to make the coefficients of members of the Council of Ministers and members of the Parliamentary Assembly i.e. MPs and delegates equally, which is quite fine and I think it is appropriate to practice anywhere in the world, is the opposite and the opposite of practice anywhere in the world. However, the good intentions of the administrative committees and the decision taken by the administrative commission were not followed by all that was to follow the decision. In fact, it was appropriate to present those decisions to the public. It was necessary to respond adequately in terms of matching the value of the points, so that it really was the equation of the coefficients. The resources available in the budget should be adequately assessed. And I think it would be good to wait and rebalance the budget and see the resources available in the budget, because we are very well aware that Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget is being created and adopted under very rigid and strict IMF criteria. Since this did not happen, if all this had happened, there had been an extraordinary space for media speculation, I would say the political abuse of one decision made by the administrative commissions, so we had signs in some media that 7 million would be spent on wages, and the entire budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina was 4 million, that the salaries were 3,500 to 4 thousand. I've never received a salary here for the last three, larger than 1,500, etc. etc. So, everything is being followed in the media, I would say perhaps by ignorance, perhaps by misdelivery of data, and perhaps by an inadequate presentation of relevant information on the issue. With that in mind, I really suggest that we as the House today decide that those decisions by the Administrative Commission are suspended temporarily until what is needed is done, and I think first of all, on the issue of budget rebalancing, on the question of harmonising the value of the points, on harmonising the true value of the point, on the possible value of the point with the value available in the budget. And when it is prepared then to have the administrative commissions reactivate such or something perhaps even an improved decision on the reception of MPs. So, I propose on that argument with that explanation, and I propose that the point is to - make a decision on the suspension of the decision of the administrative committees on the salaries of MPs. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u802	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I apologize to all of us for not being at the beginning of our 9th session, finding that out of the 15 MPs there were 14 of us. For his sake, the absence was justified by Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. So we have a quorum, we can make a full decision. We heard Mr. Genjac. Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u803	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, by respecting all this that my colleague Genjac has made, I personally believe that all this is in favour of the decision made, but the delegates in the order of the Serbian people will not accept the amendment and addition of the agenda for only one reason, because the College has proposed this agenda to us, which we at the Serbian People's Club have accepted. And I believe that what Mr. Genjac was saying is not prepared, and if there is a need at one of the next sessions, and everything that his colleague Genjac said goes in favor of the decision made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u804	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Atno Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u805	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Club of Representatives, we cannot accept this additional item of the agenda, respecting this issue Mr. Genjac presented, but I think we should prepare it well and then discuss some of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u806	Thank you, Mr. Spajić. Is anyone else answering for word? If you don't, we'll get to the bottom of the proposal. So I suggest we make a statement about Mr. Genjac's proposal to be on the agenda. Excuse me, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u807	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, here I have the opportunity, in some ways I have been called because I am the chairman of the Commission on Administrative and Financial Affairs and I think what Mr. Genjac was saying is that in some ways, it is already the continuation of some of the fighting that is being fought in the media these days, and some of the individuals from the House of Representatives are probably coming from counterpart Džaferović. He was 4 dissatisfied with the commission that worked means full and means the Administrative Commission of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, where counterparts Džaferović and two other colleagues were restrained, and counterpart Džaferović was against, that is, leaving that session and since then the decisions made by the Commission are considered not valid, that they are not such, that they are not based on the budget, that this is not well calculated etc. I think the commission that was working that she was aware of. I, personally as the President of the Commission, am not a professional MP, but I have supported this proposal for these reasons which the gentleman spoke about, because in every country an MP is in front of the minister, and we have been put in some kind of, put, meaning our parliamentary commitment and question, I will only give you one example to become an MP, i.e. a delegate is raised almost an entire state to vote, to get that place, and in the end by voting for one minister, he is better represented in this society and has better conditions to work, i.e. he has a higher salary to say specifically. And I myself asked for it myself, because this home is the one who decides who will be the minister and I asked that the MP who is a professional MP has his place, and all the people who are employed in this parliamentary assembly, but this is the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is on someone, let's say that it is the first legislative body to decide on everything and should be who is in it and who is in it to be and live and stay and work, next to us MPs and these people who are in the professional administration, and they should be adequately rewarded by the fact that people working in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are. I know that the difficulties are great and that, at the moment, there is no money, but that is not what the members of the Council of Ministers thought when they were raising their coefficients, and we are only on that committee, so they did one equalization of those coefficients to come in order that at least we were in the parity of these ministers, or the Prime Minister. I believe that the chairman of the Council of Ministers cannot have a higher salary than the chairman of our home, or the chairman of the House of Representatives, and this has in some way brought together every issue of each of our MPs. That's why I voted for it personally, and I didn't vote for it, and we think that's what Mr. Genjac has set it out of this house in some way. I think it's already a problem if this house is discussing it. The Commission shall be responsible for this. If you don't trust the Commission, tell me. I am here to change that commission and to change it myself, but to take some prerogatives, or to have no confidence in that commission, to demand vote, to do so, and therefore not to put this point on the agenda today. For this I have let them sit there chairing the club presidents, let them agree, so if there is a solution to that, and if we all agree on that, and not to individual whims, forgive me for saying so, some people can't make decisions that are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u808	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Mr Pamuk. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u809	Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, dear guests, I am one of the members of the Administrative Commission who discussed this problem on the Commission, analyzed the problem and held his position. Normally, I voted for a decision that is now, in every way possible, questionable. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Administrative Commission 1900, the Joint Administrative Commission in 1997, decided to equalise the coefficients in the Council of Ministers and Parliament. It happened that the Council of Ministers in one way, as I don't know, increased its coefficients. Gentlemen, our colleagues, or I will say professional service in this House, are not enough, or have not followed the movement of these incomes, or coefficients in the Council of Ministers, and have forgotten, or have not wanted to adhere to existing decisions. So the Administrative Commission of this House just confirmed the existing decision. It wasn't on the Administrative Commission's salary hike speech. It was just a speech about equating the coefficients. So we could go in a position for the Council of Ministers to reduce the coefficients and equalise with the coefficients that Parliament had, or for Parliament to reach that coefficient that was in the Council of Ministers. In the end, wages are not regulated by the coefficient. The coefficient regulates wage relations. Salaries are regulated by the average earnings in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. by the Council of Ministers' decision, which is the average statistical institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That average could have been smaller and bigger and could have been as it could have been. But I personally think it was a little bit, come on, I'll say some politics, and there's nowhere to talk in public there's nowhere to talk about equating coefficients, but there's only talk about something that's never been said about an increase in wages. The decision of the Administrative Commission is said to be talking about equating the coefficients. Another thing, some villains say the parliament of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will spend 7 million marks on personal incomes. Please, the complete budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina is somewhere around, when it is rebalanced, Vedrane, right, somewhere around 4 million marks. Therefore, you cannot spend what is not there and when you calculate and search for the personal income of people in Parliament, of all people in Parliament, then it is nowhere near, it is far, far below that figure. The second thing is, it's about personal incomes of 4, 3, 4, 5, 3-4 thousand marks. I'm sorry, I don't know what, how much of a colleague has a salary, what the wages in this House are. My salary, my personal income in this House, seems to me 1,400, 1,350, 1,400 marks. If people think that personal income is personal income, that personal incomes and expenses related to people in Parliament, that is, the cost of holding sessions, all that is spent, these are not personal incomes. I'm sorry these are dear gentlemen's expenses and this parliament, if we ask it to meet two or three times a month in the next period, it is quite clear that it will have increased costs and it is quite, because it cannot be sat down not to increase the costs of six. Very often they talk about what this Parliament has done and how these MPs, what they are doing. We've had an assessment and I think that according to the OHR's assessment and the international institutions, this parliament has received passing grades. And I think in three months he's done a lot more than any parliament, than any previous parliament for his entire term. Now, I think this is one answer to those who ask what Parliament is doing. We would have to get a little bit into the details, we would have to get a little bit into analysis and be aware of the fact that this Parliament has really done a lot. I know this discussion will also be welcomed very harshly, very critically, but it is true. And I mean, I wish that the media gentlemen, before they get into this kind of debate, had to and should, for the sake of their own reputation and for Parliament's dignity, be a little bit more serious to analyze things and at least tell the whole truth. I know that some badges serve half the truth and make stories out of it, but I think they were wrong in this case. Please. Here's Mr. Genjac my colleague from my club MPs suggested what he suggested. Look. I am prepared to and as a member of Parliament, and normally, as a member of the Administrative Commission, I am fully responsible for what I am doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-06-30-0.u810	Thank you, Mr. Pamuk. Who else wants to talk? No more reports. Now I call for a plea, yes, on Mr. Halid Genjac's proposal, and the proposal was to suspend the decision on, now is this salary increase or is the harmonisation of the salary coefficient. It means a decision on the salaries of MPs, MPs made by the administrative board of both homes of Parliament. So who's to get into the agenda like this point of the agenda? Who's in? Against? The abstentions? I find that with 1.2 votes against, 12 against, without abstentions, the decision has not been taken and is not included in the agenda of today's session of decisions on a temporary suspension of the decision to increase, i.e. the decision on the salaries of MPs adopted by the administrative commission of one and the other home of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're left with the proposed agenda. I am giving a statement of the proposed agenda proposed by the College of the House. Who's for the proposed agenda? Who's in? 7 Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopt the proposed agenda and move immediately to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. A statement by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text Proposal for a Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina We have received a report. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. For information to all of us, the House of Representatives adopted this report at its last session of the 27th of this month. We got it. Is there any need for anyone on behalf of the commission to present this report, explain it? If there is no need, I suggest we adopt the Commission's report. I call on us to vote on the Commission report. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission Report and this finally passed the Law in the same text in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law goes into publication. Thank you. We're going to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. The decision to nominate members of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity At the 3rd session of the House of Peoples, the House of Nations unanimously accepted the proposal to appoint Mr. Master Vladimir Dokić as a candidate from Republika Srpska as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy. You've made your decision. In accordance with Article 4(4), The law on transmission, regulator and operator of the electricity system in BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly can accept or reject proposed candidates. The candidates from the Federation of BiH are Mirsad Salkić and Željko Topić. You've made your decision. I'm opening the debate. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I suggest we adopt the decision as proposed. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Who's in? No, no, we all vote. Yes, it is. We all vote. Thank you. I find that we unanimously made a decision and adopted it into the State Regulatory Commission, I apologize, I correct. Sir, one is restrained, one is restrained. So 8 with 13 votes for, without votes against and with 1 abstention, we adopted a decision on the appointment of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in the composition - Mr Vladimir Dokić, - Mirsad Salkić and - Željko Topić as stated in the decision. We've exhausted the agenda. I thank everyone for today's constructive and expedient work. We plan, as you know before your vacations, at least one more, and, if necessary, two sessions and plan our next session for somewhere in the middle of next month, it would be mid next month. I thank everyone one more time and I'll see you at the next session. The session was completed at 12, 45 hours. We now have the plan to meet us MPs with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Strategy. I think it's useful to hear this, so it won't take long, supposedly about 45 minutes.
