ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u325	Honored envoys, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds. I welcome you all together and here I am opening the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 envoys present at the session, of which 4 are from the Bosniak order, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Čengić justified his absence. So we have a quality quorum, we can work and decide. The agenda you received in your calls. I'll read it. 1. Confirmation of the appointment of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, 2. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a joint commission for both European integration homes. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Milojević. Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u326	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear guests, I suggest we put the third item of the agenda – Current questions. If necessary, I can explain it immediately or later.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u327	There's no need. Thank you. Do we agree? Is there any other need to complete the agenda? There isn't. 2 I suggest we make a statement on the completion of the agenda. So who is it to put a third point in the agenda – Current questions? Who's in? I agree that we unanimously adopted the agenda with an extension for the point – Current issues. Thank you. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. Confirmation of appointments of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency As you are familiar with at yesterday's session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives has chosen, in accordance with the Constitution and procedures of the Election Law of Mr Borislav Paravac as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. On the basis of the above, you received a report from the House of Representatives, pursuant to Article 6. The law on filling the vacancy of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency confirms the majority of MPs in the House of Peoples belonging to the same constructive people as appointed. It's familiar here with us. It means members of the Serb people. I'm opening a debate on this. Niko one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate and giving it a statement. I ask the Serbian people's envoys to declare their appointment of Mr Borislav Paravac as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency? Who's in? I agree that Mr. Borislav Paravac has unanimously performed a confirmation of the appointment, the election of appointments as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I congratulate Mr. Paravac and invite him to speak to us briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I would like to express my satisfaction that as a newly elected member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency in the order of the Serbian people, I first address this home. This is not a courteous statement, because do not forget that I was a delegate in the first session of the National Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3 I thank this home for allowing me to implement this procedure and thank the Serbian MPs from Republika Srpska for giving their vote for this proposal and I want to gain confidence that this trust they have given me will never be let down. I wish you honourable Members of the House of Peoples successful work and that no delegation comes to such an opportunity as to raise the issue of vital interests for individual legal solutions. This is what I want myself as a new member of the Presidency to have the word veto unknown to me, and that is what I want for my colleagues, Mr Čović and Mr Tihić. I am convinced that in a triangle between the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers of which I expect a lot and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina can develop a positive energy and a single force can be created that would bring our peoples out of this poverty and bring it closer to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. In that name, I welcome you again and thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u329	Here, everyone wants to congratulate one more member of the Presidency and so will we. Here, I will once again, on my personal name and on behalf of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, congratulate Mr Borislav Paravac, the new member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thank you for this and encouraging and I would say encouraging and optimistic expectations and expect it to really happen as Mr Paravac said. It means that all together with a lot of style and without a lot of misunderstanding, there is no need to move vital interests or vetoes, etc. So we work in full harmony for the good of all the peoples and citizens of this country. Here in that faith I'd end up with this point and we'd go on, we'd move on to second point Ad. 2. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a joint committee of both European integration homes pursuant to Article 42(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the conclusion is shared before the sitting itself, and in accordance with Article 39. The rules of procedure of the people's home can be established by the joint commissions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. The House of Representatives adopted this conclusion at its 11th session, held on 9.4.2003. We've reached our conclusion, and I suggest, this is consistent with the Community College. 4 Here I am opening the debate according to this conclusion by this point. Is anyone answering for a hearing? If I don't, I'll just have two sentences. You know that Bosnia and Herzegovina's supporting commitments to join the Council of Europe are one of the obligations and the establishment of working bodies in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament that would also be responsible for European integration issues. And this is one of the commissions that we need to form and which we need to put into full function as soon as possible so that we can consider all the issues that will be and which are already in the power of this commission. Here, if no one answers, I'll call. Okay, here I am being warned that we are going in order. It means we get this conclusion first, we adopt this conclusion, and then we'll appoint a commission later. Who's to draw such a conclusion? Who's in? Yes, it is. Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously reached a conclusion on the establishment of a joint committee on European integration. Thank you. Part two. The appointment of this committee. Six members are elected to the Commission for European Integrations from the House of Nations, two in the order of the Serb people, two in the order of the Croatian people and two in the order of the Bosniak people. I'm asking the president of the clubs to make their proposals. I call from the order of the Serbian people, Mr Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u330	On behalf of the Serbian Club, I propose that in the Commission for European Integration, the Joint Commission of the two homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament be run by Mr -- Boško Šiljegović and - Dr Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u331	Thank you, Mr. Milojević. I call on the president of the Croatian People's Club Mr. Ante Spajić to make a proposal. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Club once again congratulated Mr. Paravac, and Mr. Branko Zrno and Mr. - Ilija Filipović is proposed in the Joint Commission for European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u333	Thank you, Mr. Spajić. I call on Mr Halid Genjac to make a proposal from the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u334	Dear colleagues, the Bošnjak klub proposes Mr. Neimarlija and I, i.e. It's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u335	I thank Mr. Genjac. I will now repeat the proposals so that the proposal is complete. So the proposal for all six members is as follows: - Mr. Boško Šiljegović, - Mr. Vinko Radovanović - Mr. Branko Zrno, - Mr. Ilija Filipović, - Mr. Halid Genjac and - Mr. Hilmo Neimralija. Here's a suggestion. I'd like to make a statement about the proposal. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously elected members of the Joint Commission for European Integration. I thank you all, and we'd move on to the third item of the agenda, and that's Ad. 3. Current questions Mr. Goran Milojević has run for office and here we will hear his explanation, or what he has to say. Goran, go ahead. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u336	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear guests, I have run for this item on the agenda of current issues, because at the break between this plenary session and this session, I have found material in the cabinet concerning issues related to the stabilisation and accession process of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know if you found it on your desks? And we are practically, this refers to those 346 questions that Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr. Terzić brought from Brussels to which the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should provide answers. Part of these answers refers to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. So it is purely political issues, it is also highlighted in these issues which are divided into political, economic and Stabilisation Agreement issues. We have received offers of answers from officials of this House. So we did not even deal with the team as delegates, or MPs of this congregation. We have received proposals from the response, noting that by 14 April this year, so by Monday we will make our own remarks so that they will eventually be included in the responses to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. So here I am in this statement of my objections about the fact that employees in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly are giving answers to political issues and my remark is also about the deadline until we have to, or answers, to deliver what is here to the Directorate, our Directorate for European Integration. My proposal is otherwise that we together with the House of Representatives of this Parliament form a working group that will provide answers to these political issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u337	I thank Mr. Milojević. Who does? Mr. Spasojević. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u338	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I would like one question to ask the Kolegijuma of this House. It's about those questionnaires we got from the Electoral Commission. I haven't given that questionnaire yet, and I don't know what condition he's in, when I have to hand it over because there was a deadline there for about 30 months. We've been three, a month we've asked for a prolonging, or a reduction of those questions that is, so I'd like to hear a little bit about it and what's the deadline to turn it in. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u339	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Who else wants to talk? If not, we've heard the suggestion, actually these two proposals are almost identical. So we disagree with this way of working, and we think it would be good to form a commission together, so that we agree with the House of Representatives and that a working group is formed to provide answers to these questions. Mr. Milojević noticed well, and that's what it says. The classification of these questions says these are political issues. Indeed, political issues concerning the work of this House, namely the whole of Parliament, should be answered by the people of Parliament, or those in charge of working in Parliament. Well, they can and I can, and here I will give myself the right to say, I can also evaluate Parliament's work. I don't know this deadline, it's just a little bit of an honest insolence. I don't know why he's so tight, as long as he means four days from now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u340	This deadline, I apologize to the Directorate for European Integration, and I have failed to find until we are obliged as Bosnia and Herzegovina to give all the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u341	And when did that come? When did it come to Parliament? Please. I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u342	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u343	Look, I'd put this all on, say it in the microphone, but we heard here that the hall is relatively small, and we're not hearing much from each other. But then I find a grudge to our Directorate for European Integration, which has not responded in time. Because this is here, how much is it? Ten days that came from Brussels, right, or 26. So 15 days has come from Brussels. So at least it had a week it seemed to me. We got literally a minute before this session started. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u344	I have to say I didn't get it, but it came in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u345	So that we don't fit into these deadlines, I suggest we do this the way we're supposed to. Gopsodin Spasojević has an intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u346	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u347	Or the commission, me, is a joint commission hard to deal with. We'll have our share of the commission. Okay, well, maybe that's the best suggestion. So the proposal, if you agree, means that this committee we just appointed 10 minutes ago means our part of the European Integration Commission and the College meeting tomorrow and during the day is determined by ________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] But that's it. Yes, it is. Okay. Here's what I suggested. It means it's still like I said. I don't want to say it again. So our part of this European Integration Commission and the College meeting tomorrow. We'll set the time and really study this and then these answers offer what we think they should look like. Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u349	These are issues relating to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, I believe that in this group that will give answers should be representatives from the House of Representatives, not just us.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-10-0.u350	We can only deal with them. Yes, it is. Okay, I think that means we can get rid of it so that we can meet anyway in the composition that we said here, and we can consult, of course, colleagues from the House of Representatives, because it concerns the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. 9 Here we will meet tomorrow and consult them. We'll call them because we don't have much time. Look out, we've got two days. We have until noon tomorrow and Monday. Can we adopt a conclusion like this? Who's to this conclusion? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. I understand that we unanimously adopted the conclusion that this one is here. Okay. Can we still arrange it right now and the time to make it tomorrow at noon? We're all here. At noon. All right, 12 o'clock. Okay, here's the deal. Is there anything else under the current question? _________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Please, I didn't. Excuse me. So, personally, I've been talking to the Electoral Commission these days about what we're gonna do with that unfulfilled pattern. They told us at the time that they were only acting by law and that by law it was necessary to do so in due course. On my remarks they said they agree with my and our remarks, but that they encourage us to initiate the procedure of amending the law, because they are actually provisions that are laid down by law, which are not in accordance with neither I nor I seem to have any norms, nor what we really need. This was my conversation, I really don't know what to do. I suggest we fill out how much data we know, then we go into the law-altering procedure, when it's time to do that, when we evaluate it. Here, I thank you. The session is over. Thank you, everyone. The session was completed at 15.40 hours.
