ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u97	Dear envoys, distinguished Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, all of you present warmly welcome. I am opening the 3rd session of the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session is attended by all 15 envoys. So, everybody. Since we have a quorum, we can work hard and make decisions. Before we move to the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have received a letter from the Election Commission and a form on the residence status of the elected official and please read the letter and fill out the form by the end of the session. Please submit your form to the House of Peoples. Here, it looks like not everyone got it, so now professional services are going to share these patterns, which are quite interesting. But I didn't think we'd have to talk about them. Here, while the patterns are being shared to those who haven't received, I suggest we discuss the next agenda for today's session. You received a draft agenda in the invitation. However, from that day until today, or yesterday at a joint session of the College of the Two Houses of Parliament, it is agreed that the agenda, or proposed, should be extended by two new points today. Point 3 and point 4 are the newly proposed points. They say: 3. Selection of members of BiH's delegation from the House of Peoples to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, 4. The proposal for a decision on the election process of the members of the JRV Service Management Board of BiH, since these are new points, is being discussed with a proposal to include two new points in the agenda. Is anyone answering to comment on this? If not, I suggest we put these two points on the agenda. Who's in? All for it. Thank you. I find that we've established the agenda with 22 points, for a stenogram I don't know if it's necessary to read them. Here, I will, however, read the established agenda. 2 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. Minutes from the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 3. Selection of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation from the House of Peoples at the Parlmentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 4. Proposal for a decision on the selection procedure of members of the JRV Service Management Board of BiH, 5. Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2003, Proposer of the BiH Presidency 6. Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions Budget and International Obligations 2003, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 7. A proposal for the establishment and appointment of a temporary commission to prepare a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the People’s House, 8. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2002, 9. Proposal for a Decision appointing the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity Derk, 10. BiH-SRJ dual citizenship treaty, BiH Presidency's proposal, 11. International Convention on the control of terrorist financing, adopted by the UN General Assembly on 9 December 1999, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 12. Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Turkey, Pedator of the BiH Presidency, 13. Agreement on Free Trade between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 14. Agreement on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 15. Agreement on the promotion and protection of investment between BiH and the Czech Republic, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 16. Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Portugal on mutual improvement and protection of investments, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 17. Protocol on the repression of illegal acts against security, permanent platforms located in the Epicontinental Belt of Rome on 10 March 1988, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 18. Convention on the Prevention of Irregular Works against the Safety of Maritime Navigation of Rome on 10 March 1988, Proposer of the Pedicure of BiH, 19. Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 20. Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 21. Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 22. Proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of parliamentary procedures, as proposed by the laws and other materials of the previous call. Here, this is the agenda adopted. The new point 3 is proposed for the process of electing a first parliamentary delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in accordance with the rules of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe before the meeting of the Council of Europe Bureau, which will be most likely around 10 March. You've been given a copy of Mr. Goan's emergency file. 3 A brief explanation for item 4. The future Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been proposed under the law on the foundations of the JRT system and on the JRT service of BiH to carry out the procedure for selecting members of the Governing Board of the Public Radio Television Service of BiH. It's material, it's also divided. We'd move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answer the envoy's questions and the envoy's questions. At our last session, he asked a few questions. I ask the envoys if they have received the answers and are the answers satisfied? The answers are not, or are not, because I have asked one question we have not received and we ask the Council of Ministers to deliver the answers to the questions asked as soon as possible. Now we'd move on to the second part of this point. Is there an envoy who wants to ask a question? Who answers the word. Mr. Limov Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u98	Dear Mr. President and Mr. Vice President, distinguished fellow envoys, esteemed guests and representatives of public communications funds, for a long time our public has been faced with a series of extraordinary events at the Penalty Institute in Zenica. These events have already been implemented in various ways in media and political ways. I personally appreciate that it would be useful if a parliamentary working group, as an investigative committee, would establish a real factual state. This would be an appropriate way to involve the House of Peoples in determining the truth and may be a new initiation of appropriate measures, so that, for example, the beating of convicts, individual cases, changes of religion by convicts, less organised vandalism groups of convicts and the like would not be politically exploited through the production of harmful affairs. I, of course, have no intention of insisting on the establishment of a parliamentary commission on this occasion, but I would like to ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. Mr. Slobodan Kovač, Minister of Justice of BiH. What are the fundamental characteristics of the situation and relations in BiH's criminal establishments, and what is the real truth about the situation in the Zenica Penalty Institute, in light of the recent rebellion and the circumstances of the alleged Islamization of certain Catholic religious convicts? I ask the Honorable Minister of Kovač to give me article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples answered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u99	Thank you. Anybody else want to hear from you? I don't see anyone answering. I'd like to conclude this item on the agenda with this. Of course, we expect the Council of Ministers to answer this, as well as the one previously asked, rather than the responsible questions of the envoys. That would move to agenda number two. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina 4 I am opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Zoran Spasojević. Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u100	Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have one objection. First of all, I didn't get the minutes from the previous session, and I don't think it's right for a delegate not to get it and I have a general proposal that, as far as sending the material to the sessions itself, that the material with the agenda will be delivered to each delegate at the latest seven days, that, as it should be truly prepared for each session with that material that we will discuss at that future session. We are now getting some bags of material, really it's all messed up, probably because we've been late with our vote, or with our constitution, but in the coming period, I think the professional services that there are enough in this house might and have to prepare adequate material for the session with the agenda and with the minutes from the previous session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u101	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Anyone else want to take your word for it? Let me briefly comment on Mr. Spasojević's intervention. I believe that, however, the failure and the great failure to send an envoy – the delegate does not get the material and I really call on professional services to avoid such failures and that we are no longer, I think there is no reason for these failures to happen. I hope we can work it out in the future. Is there anyone else reported wanting to discuss this point? There isn't. I suggest we adopt the minutes of the 2nd session. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? 14 for 1 abstention, no one against. I agree that the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Peoples to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe We have, in our materials, received a letter from Mr. Ambassador Gaon, saying that it is necessary to hurry up with the selection of these delegates for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We had a College, a joint College of Both Houses of Parliament, where we discussed this issue and where we established criteria for the selection of delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in international organisations. One of them is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would ask the club presidents to comply with this proposal, as well as the position of their clubs to propose candidates here as agreed, and it is agreed that in the Council of Europe of the House of Peoples, one member, one deputy Croatian nationality. Then one member of Serbian nationality and one deputy Bosniak nationality. I call on representatives or club presidents to make proposals. Mr. Spajić Ante. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you present, in front of the Croatian People's Representatives' Club to elect members of the Parlmentary Assembly in BiH and the House of Peoples at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, proposed Mr. Ilija Filipović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u103	I thank Mr. Spajić. For the deputy, it is. Mr. Boško Šiljegović, president of the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u104	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all and wish you a successful work of the House of Peoples, I welcome Mr. Minister, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Club of delegates of the Serbian People proposes Mr. Milojević Goran. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u105	Thank you. I call upon Mr. Halid Genjac, president of the Bosniak People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u106	Dear fellow delegates, esteemed guests, the Bosniak Club has decided to propose as deputy member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Council of Europe, Dr Hilm Neimarli.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u107	Thank you. We heard the suggestions. I'll repeat the suggestions. So, for a member of the Council of Europe in the parliamentary delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as a member, Mr Milijević Goran was proposed as a member of the Serb people, as a deputy member of the Croatian people, Mr Ilija Filipović, and as deputy member of the Bosniak people, Mr Hilmo Neimarlija. Here's a suggestion. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. We voted this unanimously. I find that we have unanimously decided, as suggested. This ended the Council of Europe. I congratulate the chosen one and think it will work successfully in the Council of Europe, representing BiH. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The proposal for a decision on the selection procedure of members of the BiH Public Radio Service Management Board is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, under the Law on the Foundations of the Public Red-TV System and on the Public Radio-Television Service of BiH, to first implement the procedure for the 6th selection of members of the JRT Service Board of BiH. After the procedure has been carried out, the Parliamentary Assembly will appoint members of the Management Board. It is also agreed at a joint college that the House of Representatives, also places this item on the agenda of its next session, so that this joint commission can begin as soon as possible with work. This was arranged, also at a joint college. Also discussed with representatives of BiH Radio Television. We also have their memo, in which they inform us of our obligation and ask us to finish this important job as soon as possible. The law stipulates that four members of the board of directors are members whom we, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, are appointed. Here, I won't be long. You've got all these materials. I'm opening the debate. No Niko's answering for a hearing. I will briefly repeat what the College has agreed, which is to elect three members from the House of Peoples and three members from the House of Representatives and to be the joint committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is also agreed that the clubs propose one candidate and I invite the presidents, or representatives of clubs, to present their proposals. Mr. Vinko Radovanović. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u108	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of delegates of the Serbian people in this committee for determining procedures proposes Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u109	Thank you. Mr. Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u110	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, guests, the Bosniak Club in this commission proposes to a colleague, Dr Halid Genjac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u111	Thank you. Mr. Anto Spajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u112	Dear gentlemen, the Club of Croats on this committee is actually proposing to the board of directors Mr Tomislav Limov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u113	So, the committee of the House of Nations is proposed in the following composition: 1st Mr. Halid Genjac 2nd Mr. Boško Šiljegović 3rd Mr. Tomislav Limov suggests we vote on this commission. Who's in? Thank you. We unanimously elected a commission. Now we're moving on to the second part of this point. 7 Decision on the selection of members of the primary board of the JRT service of BiH The proposal for a decision has been made in the materials. Is there anyone who would like to come forward on this proposal? Therefore, Article 4 states that the commission is required within 30 days of the entry into force of this decision, in accordance with the Law on the Foundations of JRT Services at the Public Service of BiH, to prepare the procedure and call a public tender for the appointment of members of the JRT Service Management Board. So, the commission's job is to call in the oldest or the president of the House of Peoples within 30 days. Okay, here's the College or the Chairman of the House. That could be the conclusion. The presidents of the home, or the presidents of the home. Since there is no one registered for the debate, I propose that we adopt this decision by electing members of the JRT Service Management Board of BiH. Who's in? We unanimously voted in favour and thus adopted this decision. I'm thanking you. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.5. The budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2003 is proposed by the BiH Presidency The budget we received, the commission's reports, we also got. The budget shall be considered in accordance with the provisions relating to the legislative procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the College of the House of Peoples is in accordance with Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, given the urgency to adopt the Budget, shortened the deadlines for its consideration and adoption. Further information, this budget in the text offered was adopted by the House of Representatives. I would like to invite the promoter to brief us on the budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2003.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u114	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here is the President's opening few notes, meaning the Budget, with this being the following, means that it would be necessary for this House to adopt this budget in its original form, in order to approach the creation of a rebalancing facility, because the Budget welcomed all of us with these appointments, the new Council of Ministers, as it is, and then because of the new law on ministries and all other laws, we are obliged to respect the current situation immediately to go to the proposal of rebalancing. In accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Treasury Act, this budget is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, and that's why I'm explaining it today. Some basic remarks, which would be very important for this budget and for the rebalancing that will follow, would be as follows. That this 2003 budget is based on the application of the nopolis concept... the budget of unchanged budgetary policies for the existing, previously established BiH institutions as a very important restriction, which will have to be extended further in the context of rebalancing. The "Work and Justice" programme's realisation commitment imposes the need for projections to be calculated by BiH institutions for 2003, as well as to fully comply with budget projections in the Federation of BiH and RS and Brcko District, with full co-ordination with the IMF. So these were some settings, some conditions to make this budget the way it is, made it the way it is. 8 Comparative reviews, evaluation, implementation of the 2002 budget of institutions and in the 2003 projection proposal, the so-called Differentiated approach, by which can be specifically identified: - projections Budgets of existing institutions, - projections Budgets of institutions established in 2002, and - projections Budgets of institutions that are at the founding stage. So, now we're uplinking and we're saying that according to the new ministry law, we have completely newly established ministries and other agencies, which we're going to have to respect as a fact in the making of rebalancing. Given the limited budgetary resources and actions undertaken to define the tasks of BiH's newly established institutions in the establishment and in order to avoid possible parallelisms of organisational functioning in the financial sense, mechanisms should be established to ensure that planned dedicated funds are allocated in the entity's budget to finance the activities of individual budget users. This is a very important condition, a very important setting for the draft of this budget and for the idolatry of the future rebalancing. The revenue and expenditure projections show, in particular, planned revenue and expenditure related to the implementation of the CIPS project. So, the only reason we got permission from the IMF to borrow from BiH institutions is borrowing, credit borrowing on the basis of this CIPS project. For nothing else, neither have we received nor will we get agreement for future co-operation as BiH institutions. Projections Budget BiH's cancellations and international commitments for 2003 planned to service BiH's debt total of 324.4m KM, including 204.3m and RS 120.1m. These are some basic notes. So they're heading towards saying that the total amount of the budget for this year is 529 million 870,505 KM, that this budget is being observed so that the original BiH institutions have very few original incomes that are highlighted, meaning what they refer to, some of the fees that originally go to BiH institutions and that essentially this budget and these institutions, means they are financed from the entity level, meaning their transfer of funds to this level. What is most important is to meet the financing of the external debt of fixed dates, and for the administration, which remains as such, 205 million KM planned for this year. If we're going to go through this budget now, we're going to see that he has five parts. I wouldn't read this to you. So you've got it on time, especially since this budget is what it is and there should be no change now. I'll only emphasize the following. That we only have the Treasury Act at this level and that it would be very necessary for us to pass the Budget Law, the accounting system, that such a single law would define the production of the Budget. The law on enforcement follows this act and it speaks of how this is implemented in which the deadlines, which are the obligations of the budgetary users and which are the obligations of us as the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, mean to all other budgetary beneficiaries. I wouldn't be spreading this to you anymore. So I'm just asking you to respect these and basic notes and these other notes that this budget is adopted in this form. We've got 9 already recommended by the Presidency, we've already started to rebalance. We have criteria for making rebalancing, in the sense that we will talk to all budget users on the subject of their items. So in the Budget, that's how we announce a conversation with the House of Peoples. Here's my paw. They're telling me to introduce myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u115	I apologize. I should have introduced you to our Minister of Finance and Treasury, Ljerka Marić. I thank Mrs. Secretary and apologize for not introducing her at the beginning. It was Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH Mrs Ljerka Marić. For the debate, but I'd just like to ask Mr. Čengić to invite the presidents or presidents of our committees to speak their views on this document. Who wants to hear from you? Mr. Ilija Filipović, President of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u116	Mr. President, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished fellow MPs, esteemed guests, the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed and discussed the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2003 on 18 February 2003. We have heard the words of the motion of the Presidency, we have heard the word of the Minister, and the proposer is the BiH Presidency and has unanimously concluded that the Budget as well as the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which follows this act in accordance with the BiH Constitution, is proposing them to this House for adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u117	I thank Mr. Ilija Filipović. Mr. Zoran Spasojević, chairman of the financial and administrative committee of the House of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u118	The fellow delegates, the Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs of the People's House, also discussed the BiH Institution's 2003 Budget proposal at its 2nd session of 20.02.2003, and had a lot of objections to this budget, in a way that was made to urgently ask for its adoption in an unaltered form and, not to mention much, the Commission unanimously agreed that this proposed budget should be adopted, with the conclusion that it had taken place in the emergency process, and now we have heard from the minister that it had already started to create a rebalancing of the Budget to consult this commission and to participate actively in the adoption of this rebalant. My personal observation, which I would like to say, as far as this budget itself is concerned, is as follows. That BiH is an extremely indebted country, because we see how much debt we have, or how much we have to pay back this year. It is, on occasion, 324 million, compared to the budget spent by BiH institutions and which is 205 million, and I think it is a huge figure and to go further into debt is not good. Then I was able to see that the huge deficit in BiH's foreign trade business, which stands for 4.2 billion converting marks last year. That's a huge deficit. If we continue this way in the future two or three or four or five years in the next, I don't think this country will have any more resources at all. It means it's going to be completely empty. 10 So it must be taken care of the balance of exports and exports that everything and everything that is imported into our country can no longer be done, because we must have restrictions that will come from tomorrow. Furthermore, as far as this is concerned, these figures themselves, which are set here for certain items, could be commented on a lot, however, since we have decided on the commission to adopt this budget and to go into rapid budget rebalancing, I will not speak individually, but we have asked the commission to be consulted when the budget's rebalancing is actively involved and then we will provide, or we will iron out these items that are now in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u119	I thank Mr. Zoran Spasojević. Mr Hasan Čengić, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign Policy and Trade.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u120	As a commission, we haven't considered this material, we didn't even get it, so, although we didn't think we should discuss this. I took the opportunity to come forward before the discussion, to ask a few questions about this Budget proposal. So, to welcome the chairman, distinguished fellow delegates and to take advantage of the opportunity when there is a minister here to brief us on some of the positions proposed here in Budget. I've tried to read carefully the material and I'm not sure I could in writing get an understanding of what's here. Maybe it's better to discuss it than later. So if we start with article 2 of the income balance and expenditure first part, we have a position a) income from the Civil Aviation Department of 600,000 marks. So, they were in 2002, and then the way I see it, they're off, so in 2003, there's no way. I am interested in why they were abolished and I am interested in how it is possible that BiH does not have its original revenue in the billing of flights through the BiH airspace, which is a significant item in a number of countries, and BiH in this sense can have significant revenues. Secondly, Article 2.2. of the aggregate cost balance and under point 7) of the transport service expenditure and, as a matter of fact, a pardoning asset and equipment is provided for 9 million 089,000, as this applies. In that part of the contracted service, 6,000.800 is foreseen, as well as the purchase of buildings. Here it appears, apparently a new item of 8,150,000 marks for this year, to what does it apply. In the entry of the BiH presidency, in the third section, excuse me, fourth section "Special Purpose Programmes" 1.53,000 and more, if I can understand what this is about and further, at the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Court of BiH, the Office for Audit, the Permanent Military Committee, etc. There is always one formulation. Here, let's take the BiH Constitutional Court paragraph 2. I don't understand the wording. I don't understand "the cost of employees and congregation staff. And now you have this in order, I say, at the chapters of the Constitutional Court, in the section of the Court of Justice of BiH, the Office for Audit, the Standing Military Committee. So, I don't know what the abbreviations are. You have this at the Information Agency. So, I don't know what a congregation halt is. If they're MPs, then I don't know where they come from in court one, the other, etc. But if there's anything else you can do to explain to us what this is all about. 11 So, I would ask that we get these explanations before me and my other colleagues get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u121	I thank Mr. Čengić. We heard questions. Is there any mood from the promoter to answer the question or will we go further with the questions and then perhaps later. Who else wants to hear from you? Ms. Minister Ljerka Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u122	...regarded the proceeds of the Civil Aviation Department. So I can't answer that question at all. It remains as a parliamentary issue, because it is in 2003, there is no income. Why there was income in 2002, means there was a rule and you have to leave me time to look at it. So, I'm interested in 2003 why it's gone, and we're going to consider it, but I'm really not ready to answer you right now. The second question was, about contracted services. We don't have the same text.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u123	Here's my text, here's my questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u124	So here we have the rental of property and equipment in the summation of this. So it is generally known that we, that BiH institutions do not have their own assets and this applies exclusively to the rental of space and equipment. So here we have a problem with the Electoral Commission, which is generally known and thus with all other budget users. So, we pay huge money for renting property and it's basically called this accounting, which doesn't mean we have rental cars and anything else. So, the property of the building, we rent the premises and pay the rent. I'm saying this item is exclusively a lease of space. Next. The contracted services related to services, let's say representations, is, and so far have always been related... to the team. The following was the purchase of buildings, capital expenditures were specifically shown back in the budget. They relate exclusively to the funds that we need to get from the European Commission and some donors and are tied up, so they are connected, the buildings are connected, so if the Constitutional Court receives five million donations, they will be invested as capital expenditure. All capital expenditures are related to donations.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u125	Which objects do you refer to?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u126	I really can't go to the facilities. The Constitutional Court as a new institution means its equipment, etc. These are already a little bit of detail that they are, but we're willing to take a look at this and explain to you 12. I don't need to know by heart where the Constitutional Court is located and how much it costs to equip that building. So I can only say that 5 million is intended as a donation, that it is given to the Constitutional Court and, if it is realised that the Constitutional Court will be equipped in this way. The BiH court is 5 million capital expenditure. 40 grand Audit Office, Statistics Agency 20 grand, Justice Border Service 3 million and 200 at my place. So capital expenditures are those property expenses, they're generally issued in the installation of objects, in the rental of buildings, addition and in that sense that's it, these are our capital expenditures. They are not directly related to the budget, but to these donor funds, i.e. by some of the contracts that we have the Office of Audit, let's say what is financed by the Swedish SID that will be, but implemented through the vault in this item. Well, what's the matter I don't know yet? For the BiH Presidency, the procurement of fixed funds, is that it? It's not. Special purpose programs. He writes a Standing Committee on Military Affairs. So, it says like this, the head is called "specific purpose programmes" and refers to: The Standing Committee on Military Affairs; the Office of the Liaison Officer in The Hague and the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments. So that's it. This item is called as an economic code always "the cost of employees and assembly representatives" so accounting is called so, so most of the other users have employees' expenses, it's accounting, accounting, so, and we only have representatives in the House of Nature, i.e. delegates and in Parliament we have representatives, and that's that. Accountancy item. So this is done accountingly, according to the economic categories that are shown as economic code, it's like a continuum plan and so according to that final plan, that's how it's shown. So, we're going to work out a second plan, and we're going to write it down a little bit. So that's how it's done systematically so that the vault can perform operations, so it's recognised by this economic code. So this when it says "employees' salaries" this at 61100 is entered and all wages can be monitored in this way. It's an accounting way of accessing both books and post-control. I mean, that's how it's done or that's what it's called. Not particularly for the Assembly, especially for the Constitutional Court, especially for the ministries. So there's the same economic code for everything, so that's what the items that this applies to, descriptively maybe sometimes don't fit, can only be written by congregation representatives and other fees and others, but there shouldn't be confusion, it's an old thing. There shouldn't be any confusion about it. I'll try, or I'll explain all these details to you as much as possible, if I didn't know about this first question, I'll remain obliged to answer why we don't have the Department of Civil Aviation revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u127	I thank Mrs. Finance Minister Mrs. Ljerka Marić for the clarifications, but here I am, and if Mrs. Minister didn't say that, I will say what I think about this. The new assembly, this new Council of Ministers' Assembly, is indeed in one awkward situation, the position for us to explain to the representatives the Budget, which, which they inherited and I think would be more correct and also useful for us to focus our discussions on giving our remarks and not looking for answers here today, because these Council of Ministers' and this presidency in this meeting did not work this budget. So, they didn't do it and I don't think it's right for us to ask for all the details, in terms of what the details are, and I don't know what's planned, neither do I. I apologize for giving myself the right to comment. Mr Pamuk has his word. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u128	I welcome everyone and, behold, the time has come for us to agree on the Budget. However, I would take this budget more as a decision on temporary financing at this point, let me say so, because this assembly and the institutions of the BiH state must function and have some basis for it to operate. This is what we call a temporary budget and, let's say, he's like he is. This budget was made by the previous Council of Ministers, adopted by Parliament, the House of Representatives and came to us at this moment that we too would say about this budget a few words and, regardless of our praises or some strong objections to it. I will propose from here to the Assembly, to this council that we adopt this budget, especially since there is a decision that this budget goes in, that is, to make budget rebalances and it has a deadline there. I think it was a 60-day period, as I recall, and I think this home should also accept the House of Representatives' decision to say that the Council of Ministers should, in that time, still be subject to rebalancing. I think here that the Council of Ministers, or the people who are going to be working the budget, will draw attention to just a few things. This budget shows that the Assembly, or both homes of the Assembly, is in a rather unfavourable position. Namely, why? Well, because it's said that there's no change in sizes, there's no change in size and there's no change in policy. The basis, the budgetary basis for this year's BiH Parliament, is what happened in the earlier budget, the earlier basis is what happened in some other earlier and all that. So, we're starting from the basics, basically starting from the basics of 1996, when we made the Dayton Agreement when the first BiH Parliament worked, and when this house started to work, that means it was the basis. Relations have changed. It was a home that didn't have in principle a administration that didn't have any particular expenses, it just wasn't, he was, I have to admit at that point, let me say, by force home, by force of Parliament. It worked the way it worked and then all these sizes started and all these relationships were built on that basis. Today, when we see that the BiH Parliament has a series of obligations to the international community, or to parliaments, if you want other countries, it must connect with all these institutions, it is clear that this should be financed at this point. It is clear that this parliament, if it wants to rust, must also have new officials, must have a little bit of an increase in the administration. The administration must be an increase, so the costs paid by this parliament in international co-operation must, too, be paid and I think it must all find its position in the budget. I propose to the Council of Ministers and gentlemen who will be working on the rebalancing of Budget to take care of this matter. I also propose that with international relevant factors, people from international organisations sit down and, if they are a brake, the budgetary item of Parliament will be increased. I think we should talk and make it clear to people that such an attitude, at least as far as Parliament is concerned, is unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u129	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Who else wants to take your word for it? Mr. Čengić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u130	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, it is clear that this is one deadline or time in which we are talking, so the end of the second month, but a time that does not allow us any more serious changes and pressures us to reach any kind of budget for BiH institutions this year. In that sense, I will, respecting these facts, not discuss it in a way that would be done if we had enough time to consider this as a draft, but I will just look back at a few important things for me and give some addition to the conclusion that Mr Pamuk has already suggested. First of all, I suspect that today is the time and opportunity, regardless of what can be done in this year, and we will not be able to reflect on the Budget for this year, but today is the time and opportunity to encourage the Council of Ministers' initiative to ensure, in its mandate ahead of them, that it is four years, that, on the one hand, leads to the original incomes of BiH institutions, and on the other hand to reduce the expenditures of these same BiH institutions. If you allow the cost, then, since we heard, and I deliberately asked the question of space, renting, etc. equipment and space, I think it is possible to take additional activities and actions, in order to ensure that BiH institutions, in the coming period, have the facilities at their disposal and to avoid paying the rent and then the rest. As far as I know, the activities around this building are, here next to us, which can certainly satisfy, perhaps not all needs, but the important needs of BiH institutions, and I think it would be good in that sense if the Council of Ministers came out with such a proposal, so if it is necessary to support both homes of the Parlmentary Assembly in order to obtain permanent solutions, therefore, for facilities owned by BiH institutions to avoid paying the rent. The second item is the issue of income, which, normally, belongs to countries everywhere in the world, which is the issue of revenues from overflight, so commercial flights across BiH. I believe you know that before the war, flights across BiH were between 800 and 1000 a day. I guess whoever deals with the team knows that it's a very high amount of money, that a hundred kilometers fly, depending on the type of plane, pays 120 to 400 dollars each time, however many times that plane has flown over a certain territory, and that we have missed the opportunity in the present period to be a state, including entities, so in general as BiH, I don't exclude anyone, because this is a general interest, to ensure that these funds come to us, so unfortunately now they're leaving our neighbours, which is the only cost they spend a little bit of electricity and have a few employees in air control and what's the basic purpose, so paying overflights is a compensation for the ecological damages that they're coming into BiH, so that they don't come to BiH, they're so reduced that it's symbolic. In that sense, I'll be very clear. I believe that BiH at the level of services it currently provides, better said at the level of overfly, currently occurring through BiH, can provide between $80m and $120m annually, which can then be agreed on at the level of BiH, at entity level, etc. but, therefore, the funds that should come and be present in BiH and definitely be the original income of BiH institutions. I am convinced that this council will pay attention to this and find ways and ways to raise these questions. Instead of further discussion, I will join the assessment that the budget rebalancing is necessary, therefore, for many reasons, if we start from this house because of, indeed, the fact that Mr Pamuk has made it very clear that this Parliament needs to be blushed and even more worked that it needs to be quality 15 served and able to carry out its obligations. It is before us in these four years that we are obliged to pass a series of laws, that we are probably working to amend the existing laws, to bring BiH into line, according to what we have taken over during the post-accession period to the Council of Europe and to efforts towards European integration. Therefore, it is necessary that this Parliament can function and fulfil its obligations, but also the Council of Ministers, which, since this year, is to work fully in another scheme, with several ministries, with a higher number of employees, with a higher number of powers, of course all of these require funding. For all these reasons, I think it is necessary to prepare as soon as possible the proposal for a rebalancing of the Budget that we would discuss, as well as to see how we can finance it. For this reason, I will join the already stated proposal and, perhaps, read, if you allow one possible text of conclusion. So, I suggest that, with this budget and the budget law being adopted, we also adopt a conclusion, which could come up with an opportunity to prepare. Therefore, it is up to the Council of Ministers to prepare a proposal for a rebalancing of the BiH institutions for 2003, within the deadline foreseen by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, to be fully in agreement with them, so that we have the same deadline on the side and, in particular, to take care of the new BiH institutions and their needs of the Council of Ministers, especially the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here, this might be a little bit better. The deadline I propose, given that the House of Representatives has already discussed this budget, adopted it earlier and adopted the conclusion, I suggest that the deadline expires from that day forward. So, not to give two different deadlines, because the Council of Ministers should certainly meet that deadline, so I said it would be in agreement with the deadline envisaged and proposed in the conclusion of the House of Representatives. They certainly, the Council of Ministers deems it necessary to prepare that budget, because... if there is no deadline, we will propose 60 days. But we've been notified. Okay, here we go, 60 days. We thought you had such a deadline in the conclusion of the House of Representatives and that, from an opportunity, 15 days ago, it might have been about 45 days ago. In any case, I believe it is necessary to prepare the budget rebalancing, which would provide for the coverage of all these obligations and, of course, explain from which resources we intend to finance that budget, so that we do not come into a situation where we do not, on the other hand, fulfil other international obligations that we have undertaken to reduce public spending, obligations towards external debt, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u131	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to take your word for it? If nobody wants to, I'll do it for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard in the introduction of a finance minister who's been fundamentally managed in the preparation of this budget for this year. So the basic principle is unchanged budget policies. However, I would like to ask a few questions here for all of us. In fact, we see that in the balance sheet of income, according to sources and purposes, a significant reduction in this third point of current cash-based support is important. So this is about donations and assistance from the world of BiH through the budget. I recommend here right now to the rebalancing promoter who will be made within 60 days, to make additional efforts and try in this item to ensure, if possible, a slightly larger amount of funding, because we heard here everyone who spoke earlier, fellow MPs that, simply this budget, this amount is insufficient to finance all 16 needs of the BiH state. I absolutely agree, and I think we should look for ways to secure a bigger budget. Furthermore, the main item, here in this revenue side, is the income from the entity. It's a question. To what extent are entity budgets able to increase their allocations to the BiH Budget? Here's a 13% increase planned compared to last year. Also a significant income, is income from the CIPs. These days we hear various information about the CIPS about the value of the service, i.e. costing services, etc. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. About the expense, they're even, of course, more interesting. I think that here many of these figures deserve real clarifications, but I wouldn't ask for these clarifications from this, at this point in time from the new Council of Ministers' convocation, I don't think it's correct, because, really, to know the structure of these items here all the items of expenditure, then we need to get into the details, and I don't think these details can be known by these people who sat in these important places and responsible, just a month ago, but that's why during the making of the rebalancing calculation, we'll certainly expect and look for answers to all these items, their structure and amounts of course. One thing I would particularly point out here is, the obligation of the BiH state, in terms of membership concessions in various international organisations in the annual amount, is 1,893,730 KM is planned here and I would ask one question to the Council of Minstars, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The truth is that BiH is very little involved in the overall financing of international organisations whose member it is. Our participation in this funding is measured in promiscuity. That's familiar to all of you. However, I have also learned, on the basis of semi-checked information, that our participation, therefore, is even less than our people, citizens of BiH, who are staying or working in these organisations. So, we're almost gone, no way. I think that one of the tasks of our government, i.e. the Council of Ministers and, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should be to find and hire a number of BiH citizens in these institutions, organisations internationally, not only for their employment, but much more from the benefits that they can bring BiH into including all these integrations where we really want to be. These are my general remarks. Of course, I think we can finally suggest this conclusion, which is already Mr. Čengić and others have spoken very similarly. It means that today, with this budget adopted, the budget text, no changes, because we can't even do them, let's also adopt this conclusion. It means that within 60 days, the Council of Ministers shall be bound and the deadline of 60 days shall run from the day of the publication of this document, to draw up a proposal for a rebalancing of the Budget for this year and on this document, I hope that we will be actively involved in the context of our proposals and amendments. That's it. Just settle in where it suits you. Here you go, move over. It must be our executive power in good shape. They've got important work to do. I thank everyone. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If not, I suggest we adopt the Budget in the text we've received, we'll discuss the conclusion later. However, it is correct to go first on the law, i.e. on the text Budget and then on the conclusion. Who's for a text like this? Who's in? We're unanimous. I thank you all. 17 Now I suggest we vote on the conclusion. So, to prepare a proposal for a rebalancing, the BiH institutions budget for 2003, within 60 days, from the day of the publication of this document and to take special care of the new BiH institutions and the Council of Ministers, and in particular the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think this last one is just as important. Who's in favor of a conclusion like this? We unanimously adopted this conclusion. Thank you. This ended with the budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2003. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.6. The Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations for 2003, the BiH Presidency's proposal, we received this material, this text. I call upon the motionor or anyone on behalf of the Proposer or anyone on behalf of the Proposer to explain. It will be Ms. Ljerka Marić's resolute minister. Ma'am, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u132	I propose the same procedure for rebalancing. The law on the implementation of the budget of the institutions, we won't be long with this law on enforcement. He's just one technical act. Whether I talk or they talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u134	So, in Article 1, I'm not going to tell you anything important, and I'll be quick. So, the law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003 is so tradeable that it is for some year, meaning for 2003. Otherwise, it is passed as a law that can be permanent. But, so, since we don't have the bill on the budget adopted so far, each year, along with the budget passed by law and this law that says that the budget adopted there is being implemented, so in the first article he says, the way in which the institution's budget for 2003 is arranged, and so it's all listed here what is being said, so each individual article is explained, related to the budget adopted, as is being implemented. I don't think there's much to explain right now. If there's any specific question, neither do I, related to the budget reserves, or maintaining balance, etc. There's something he can ask, but I don't think this is anything special. So this is a technique and it's just saying that everything in the budget is being executed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u135	I thank you for your explanation. Who wants to hear from you? I'm opening a debate. Do the committees have something to say? They were obvious. Okay. Obviously, we don't have any interested in the debate. I suggest we approach, if we have a quorum, I think we do, and if we're a little bit dry. I suggest we join the vote on this law. Who's in? - 11 members in favor. All present. 18 I thank and realize that we adopted the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institution Budget and the International Obligations for 2003 in the text proposed. The team would end up at 6 and move to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. The proposal for the establishment and appointment of a temporary commission for a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the People's House How there are some unspecified solutions in the Rules of Procedure and the need for new committees, a new law on ministries, the College of the House of Peoples considers that amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure should be made. The College therefore proposes to appoint a temporary commission, which will prepare amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you that the House of Representatives has appointed a temporary committee to amend their Rules of Procedure. The Komsija he would appoint the House of Nations could work with the House of Representatives committee to find the most suitable solutions for both homes of the Parlmentary Assembly. This, of course, is a recommendation, but they will work separately, with, of course, working together during their work, so that some solutions can be agreed upon as necessary. We talked about this at the College. We need some new commissions, we also have a recommendation from certain circles from the international community, that our commissions be expanded, that their numbers increase. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who wants to talk? Mr. Doctor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u136	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian People's Delegates Club considers that no conditions for amending this Rules of Procedure have been obtained so far. We think that the Rules of Procedure should be amended on the basis of certain experience in application. We are currently at the 3rd session, so we do not have any experience working with this Rules of Procedure, so we think that for now we should not change it, but during this term, perhaps at the end of the term of office or during the term of office, if we see any shortcomings to try to remove them. As for the formation of these committees, we think that, and according to this Rules of Procedure, they can be formed. Article 38 of the current Rules of Procedure says both homes can establish a permanent or occasional joint commission together. So that would not be an obstacle to the formation of these commissions that should be formed also on the basis of this current Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u137	Thank you. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u138	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, respecting the arguments made by Dr. Radovanović, therefore, that we are objectively only at the beginning of our work and that in this session, most of us, otherwise, have no experience with this Rules of Procedure, so neither negative nor positive. We, perhaps, have a pretty positive one, because we managed to get rid of everything that came before us. I can fully understand this approach of his. 19 Still, I want to say the following. Given the change in the Law on the Council of Ministers and the Law on Ministrys and, given the increased number of ministries and the increased number of responsibilities of these ministries, the need for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to exercise control over the activities, i.e. having insight into these activities and, it is obvious that it is necessary to define in terms of commissions, which commissions, whether existing or new ones will assume the competence and competences of monitoring the work of these institutions, or monitoring the work of these functions and for this reason, the least I think should be regulated is that our Rules of Procedure is brought forward with this emerging situation in the Council of Ministers. I, indeed, would not go into debate at all this time, whether it is better to add new powers to the existing commissions, which in my opinion and, otherwise, are quite busy and have a lot of obligations or perhaps a better solution to form another or two new commissions, and then thus cover what is not covered. But in any case, the least we should do is that the activities that the Council of Ministers will perform in this meeting and under the new law on the Council of Ministers and ministries need to be reflected in the Rules of Procedure and should be reflected in the Commission's competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u139	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Filipović and Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u140	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, since the Constitutional and Legal Committee has been a proposing and has initiated a proposal to join the College in today's session agenda, I will say a few words. We are all new here, and we do not have much experience in applying the Rules of Procedure, whose provisions we propose to be new. However, all of us who are, here is the third session, we have read the Rules of Procedure, we have noticed quite clearly certain provisions, which give us the possibility of a different interpretation, where the three prime ministers meet, the four opinions on a certain position... the rules. That's right. Not to mention some kind of language, technical, morphological, if you want other needs to be touched by certain articles of this Rules of Procedure. We have, throughout the Rules of Procedure, both the envoy and the delegate and the MP and the member and the representative, etc. Well, if anything, we should even it out so that we know exactly that the Croatian people say it like this, Bosniakly like this, that it's not going through all different ways through all the rules of procedure, that we try to at least that way to make it quite clear and understand. So equalize the expressions. It's pretty clear what an equation is. In the Croatian people, it is a representative, no matter what level it is. We have in the Constitution in Article 4, precise parameters, so that the Rules of Procedure should essentially have its own thread and how it should regulate certain things. There are, indeed, needs. We have assessed on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and we unanimously propose to the College and the College to put it on the agenda, and we are not only led by the House of Representatives initiative, which has also established a commission, which will do something, because it is also encouraged by some financial assistance from international communities, and there is an initiative to increase the number of commissions, to facilitate, speed up, to say, the work of our bodies at home. That is why the Constitutional and Legal Commission wanted, asked and was pleased that this is on the agenda, respecting what a fellow Serbian people said. That's right. We haven't done enough of this Rules of Procedure yet. Let's just say, he bothers us here and here. But when it was carefully read, when we had the constitution and when we had one very interesting, we used the Constitutional and Legal Committee's working session and we came to the conclusion that we should initiate this issue, especially on an increased number of ministries in the Council of Ministers and on a part-time issue that is going to drag us through the working bodies of the House. That's it. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u141	I thank Mr Filipović. Who else wants to take your word for it? Mr. brkati, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u142	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I would just like a few notes, respecting what Mr. Radovanović said, I fully understand him and understand why he suggested it. We're still stalking each other. We're still new here. However, there is someone here who has been and in the previous meeting, here, Mr. Spasojević was in the House of Representatives, Mr. Genjac was in the House of Peoples, me and Hilmo were in the House of Representatives and I speak from experience and knowledge. In an earlier term, the functioning of both homes, precisely because of some undefined, unconformed views of the Poslovik, one and the other did not work out properly. In my personal opinion, it didn't work out right. We know what the role of the House of Peoples is, we know what the role of the House of Representatives is, but often these sessions got intertwined and some things couldn't be arranged, so they were passed on even from that previous call. I know, let's just say that the National Minorities Act was still in that meeting three years ago, so it didn't go through, it didn't agree, so it was in the last session, so it didn't agree, and now it's not finished. And why did that happen? Because the MP from the House of Nations proposed in his own way, from the House of Representatives in his own way and simply could not agree. So there was paralysis in the adoption of this one law, which BiH needs. Just because it's a business thing that's not regulated when it's taking a step first, that's taking a step second. I think that we, indeed, have a lot of practical reasons to sit down and get each other and the House of Representatives and we and, I believe, I am sure that all of us here 15 sitting here want to improve Parliament's work. If something braked earlier and we're sure there was a brake, I don't see any reason not to try to take that step, not in the fourth year of our term, but in the first six months of our term to try to fix what's obvious to be a brake. That is why I, indeed, support this proposal, if this commission were to be formed and I would ask representatives of the Serbian people to respect this argument, which I have made here so that they may bring forth others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u143	Thank you, Mr. Brk. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u144	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say very briefly. We are against some fundamental changes at the beginning of the mandate, which does not mean that we will not consider all proposals coming from clubs, MPs and eventually adopt them. So there is no obstacle to certain things being called up by previous MPs to see if they are good, whether they are really unsuitable, holding back in the work to consider and adopt. But we believe that in the essential changes to the Rules of Procedure, the systemic changes, at the beginning of the mandate, we really can't get in, because we're not even ready. We have no experience in the work, so, as far as these repairs and additions to the Rules of Procedure are concerned, it can be considered at any time. I don't think we need a commission to do that. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u145	Let's be parliamentary. I thank Mr. Radovanović. Who else is answering? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u146	Dear colleagues, I think we can bring an end. We have two steps here. The first step is to make a decision, or not to make a decision to form a commission and the second step is if we make a decision to form a commission to propose members of that committee. So that's two steps. Reasons for forming a commission, of course there are more, and I'm going to list some of those reasons. There is a need to perfect the regulation of both home and home. There is a need for many details in the rules of procedure to be specified within homes, and especially in the relations between homes. It's not about fundamental changes. The fundamental changes, i.e. the essential principles of working these homes, are regulated by the Constitution and there are no big things to change, that is one question. The second question, the House of Representatives entered this process, formed and appointed a commission and I who proposed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission to do something similar, just had in mind, that it would be a shame to miss this opportunity for the House of Representatives to do one job and that the House of Peoples would be responsible for these activities because they would be brought into the position of the final act. You know, in interdependence, both homes are. Another thing is that every political option in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly has psalniks in both homes. Messengers who have experience and who have been in earlier councils and MPs who are new MPs. So there's this security mechanism. Another mechanism is that they are committees of one and the other at home and, the third mechanism that all commissions form here on the principle of parity, representation and people and entities. So there are reasons and there's enough security and I'd say rational motives to form. But of course the question is clubs and their decisions, and I think it's possible to approach the vote, whether we are, I think it would be good to make that decision, but if there's not enough preparedness at this point, we'll probably see it in the position where we are in the House soon enough, that we're going to bump into some issues, so that question will mature. Therefore, I suggest that we put ourselves to a decision-making vote, whether we are to form that commission or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u147	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Radovanović again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u148	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief clarification on the formation of a commission. A member of the 130th current Rules of Procedure says the House can, at any time, supplement this Rules of Procedure in accordance with the BiH Constitution. So at any point on any delegate's proposal. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u149	I thank Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u150	Dear gentlemen, I owe you one clarification, I supported the proposal on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. But for me, the club's decision is bigger than that. So we don't get in a position to vote today. The point is, we know it's about two Rules of Procedure. One is the rules of procedure of this house, one is the rules of procedure of that house. They formed one nine-member commission and four administration professionals to work on repairing the rules of procedure. We didn't say we had any objections to this Rules of Procedure. We simply did not find out in practice that he was or should not be repaired. We are sure it will need to be repaired, but in order not to come to a situation where five delegates from the Serb people vote against today, I ask the promoter to withdraw this proposal, for some better time in a month, two, three, etc. We may practically see that we need to do this, but so five delegates of ours will be against it, so I'm asking you to withdraw the proposal, make some compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u151	Thank you. I have a proposition. I think it's, uh, for him now, and otherwise we should have taken a break, I don't know how long it takes us to meet a college because he suggested a agenda like this. So, the proposal to pull out of college, and it would be good if after our brief college meeting, the club presidents were to join in and see if we had a deal. So, a break from, as far as we're concerned, to take a long break so we can eat something and make it half an hour. I've established a half-hour break. So in 13 and 20 minutes, the session will continue. ...we've been established a break of 20 minutes. [[PAUZA]] So, we've only exceeded the time twice. I suggest we proceed with our session. We have agreed on the 7th item of the agenda of the proposal for the establishment and appointment of a temporary commission to prepare a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. I don't know if I can talk or someone else will. I find it agreed that the best solution would be to pull this point off the agenda, because there is not enough agreement and, I don't think it would be a good outcome and not to get into those situations, I suggest we take this item off the agenda. Are we in? All right, we're taking off the agenda. That's what we've solved. Let's go to the next point, that's point eight. Ad.8. A report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2002 received this material for today's session. The House of Representatives, for our information, adopted this report by the Council of Ministers from the previous assembly. Our commissions were considering this report. As there has been a change in the Council of Ministers' composition, so we have no one here who could, because he did not take part in the hearing on it. I call on the 23 representatives of the committee to be seen on this document. Mr. Ilija Filipović, president of the Legislative and Legal Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u152	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished fellow MPs, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has discussed the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2002 and has only received the above-mentioned report in the debate without debate. Since it was not on the panel of the rapporteurs of the material. But it does not prevent this home from discussing this report and taking its stand, to be seen about it, about this report and to accept it eventually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u153	I thank Mr Filipović. Mr. Spasojević. Here you go. Administrative.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u154	Mr. Chairman, the Commission for Administrative and Financial Affairs also had this item on the agenda, but it also did not discuss it, because there was no rapporteur, and we found some compromise solution, that this material was directed to the current Council of Ministers that they were a little too much to give us an opinion on whether or not to adopt it, so it was strange for me to see this point and see, when I saw this point and saw it in the agenda, because we had this conclusion, so we don't mind, but here I see that there is no one here and it's illogical, they have these members of the new Council of Ministers, but it's illogical that they give answers to that job that they didn't work. Now we're in a position where I don't even know how we're going to get out, but there's more of us, there's more of us, and we're probably going to find some kind of solution that we're going to be able to satisfy, or we're going to take down this agenda item or we're going to just get knowledge, or we're going to adopt this report, and it's up to us to discuss it, and I've expressed our commission's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Čengić, the Commission for Foreign Policy and Trade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u156	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, our Committee on Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade is also discussing this report and we had a dilemma in mind whether we should even discuss whether we should make a statement on how to approach this issue. Anyway, we have taken the view that it is natural, regardless of what the Council of Ministers is now in the second composition, that it is natural for Parliament, i.e. both of his homes are being declared on the Council's work report in the previous meeting and it is part of the continuity and obligations, of course Parliament, and we have found no dispute in this regard. As far as this idea, which we were also familiar with from the Administrative and Financial Commission, to hear first and foremost the Council of Ministers' opinion on this report, and then to further discuss, we took the view that this was not necessary for the reason we just heard. Since the Council of Ministers has not prepared this report, it cannot and does not make sense that 24 is being shown whether this report is complete, whether it does not, whether it reflects the state to answer questions etc. And, in the end, we came to the conclusion that, without taking a stand on this, as a commission, we simply went to the House and that the House as the House would declare this report. Otherwise, I think, personally, I feel that the report should be discussed and that, as a House, we need to take a stand, and here we have, all of these three options, which my colleague has already mentioned, and we will discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u157	I thank Mr. Čengić. I am opening a debate on the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 20... years. Who wants to take part in the debate? Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u158	Dear President, dear colleagues, I'll make a suggestion. Joining what Mr. Spasojević and Mr. Čengić said, I will only justify it with one more of my own, one of my views. I think it's useless for us to talk about this document right now. They were obliged to put up with it in an earlier session, and what I personally think about this, now it's less important. I was also one of the people who criticised the work of the Council of Ministers in the House of Representatives, and I really didn't agree with many of their views, and now I disagree. I'm just going to read you one attitude here, and I'm going to tell you right now why I'm pressuring for us to plead on this. For me, this is enough for us to take in knowledge, because the order of values, if it refers here as they lined up on page 5, the last item, the last item, in fact, says solving the problem of refugee returns and displaced persons. If that was the last item in their entire work, even in the report, instead of being a priority, that only one piece of information tells me what they were really priorities for the Council of Ministers. Now to put us in a position to talk about it, I think it really doesn't make sense, and I think it's enough for this home to take this into account. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u159	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Neimarlija answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u160	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, we are indeed in a situation, which is also in a formal and substantive sense to say rather inadequately in the role that we have in this home and in the obligations that we are obliged to fulfil. Of course, the submission of the report by the Council of Ministers is a commitment and a change of the Council of Ministers, which took place in the meantime, has not freed the previous Council of Ministers to prepare the report or to deprive us of our needs and obligations, as well as to determine the report. However, we are, in this delicate situation, in that determination according to the report, or the debate on the report, implies, above all, the evaluation of the report, given what the Council of Ministers did, what could have done, what it had to do, which it seemed to itself would have done in the period 2002, and such an approach to this report would obviously have been, by far, deplaced, because all of our questions and any observations and ultimately the evaluations of this report, we do not have, on the other hand, the rapporteurs, who could dispute or in a proper way, justify the answer to our, possible 25 remarks or take part in the debate on them. And speaking of the report in this, to say an unworthy, factual sense, would also seem rather inappropriate and, therefore, I will only state the position of our club, under which we appreciate the circumstances in which we face this report, and after seeing what the report presents, we have on our part a position that the report cannot accept that it is received, and we cannot accept it for any number of reasons, which I will list several. First of all, the report presenting the work of the Council of Ministers in 2002, faced with the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, which also had its respective verification in the Parliamentary Assembly and with political announcements of the Council of Ministers' and in 2001 and 2002, is in a difficult time, and those who were not MPs in the earlier assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, surely remember the promises, made by the Council of Ministers in the previous session about the adoption of legislative acts, i.e. legislative projects at the level of the BiH state, about the return of refugees, about the projects, which were meant to speed up the processes of BiH's involvement in European integration, about the process of liberating the affected, of course of BiH from this one poverty in which is the Bosnian society, in which it is located and which it threatens him. So, recalling these promises and after reading only these introductory notes, opening notes for this factographic one, I would say, part of the report, a man is inevitably in a position to establish this difficult gap between the promises he made and the programming, realisation of the Council of Ministers' activities in 2002 and, I would say now, that is my personal opinion, an inadequate, inappropriate introduction into this factographic report with these introductory notes, which are, in fact, political and I would say a valuable qualification of the report itself. For example, these are some of those reasons why we cannot accept the report. It is said, at least in the last place, about wonderful progress in the process of returning refugees and displaced persons, and the Council's work indicator, in fact, the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees, given the primary function of the Council of Ministers, including that ministry, in the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not adopted any legislative project by the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees, not a single legal act, actually the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. The importance of the acts covering these areas is not to be pointed out. In these opening remarks, which valuely determines the report, let's say the Council of Ministers credits itself, that there was no inflation in BiH in 2002, as if it were the merits of the Council of Ministers, we know whose it is. It credits itself with the successful implementation of the CIPS project, which has led it to a phase where the first ID cards have already started to be shared, and the success of this project that was very important for our country, significant for the integration processes of these Euro-Atlantic integrations, as we all know, we are all suffering. Furthermore, the report shows the state of play in the work of the Foreign Ministry, and we know, despite BiH being admitted into the Council of Europe in the past year, that objectively our country, the international position of BiH in the past has suffered a deterioration rather than improvement. The report also said that strategic acts on the fight against poverty are in preparation, including strategic acts to be removed, by administrative obstacles to foreign investment in BiH. These strategic goals were, among other things, the Council of Ministers' strategic promises, when it came in, and here in this report we get it as a promise to be realized in 2003. These are some of the reasons, of course not all, the consequences that we cannot accept from this report and just one small note only, which can be of functional importance, I would say, for relations both with our home 26 and with the Paarliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers in this present assembly. It says here that the Council of Ministers had a successful co-operation with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The number of these proposed legislative acts and their implementation testifys in this important plan on this co-operation and, otherwise, the number of legal acts that the Council of Ministers referred to in the procedure in 2002 and which are witnesses, primarily on the success of their work, is largely all laws adopted on a provisional basis by the High Representative. But I'm mentioning this one fact. In the previous meeting of the Parlamentary Assembly, I was in the House of Representatives and a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, indeed, it is important to note that we, on several occasions on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, have returned the proposals of individual acts of the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers did not have a representative, or representative at the meetings of our commission. On several occasions, we moved it for the next meeting and more than once, we have returned some legislative proposals even completely back to the re-proceeding procedure, which is an indication, in fact, of an unimportant, but significant relationship between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly in the previous session, and this is just an observation with which I would like to encourage responsible people, in fact, people in the Council of Ministers today that we are willing and eager and that we expect them to see co-operation between the current assembly and the current composition of the Council of Ministers being better than it was in 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u161	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Who else wants to report for a hearing? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u162	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to take my word for it, but since I'm a member of one of the committees that discussed it, or tried to discuss this report. That's why I called. I think that we should first conclude... because it seems to me that we are not what decisions the commission has made constitutionally-ustavno-pravni has said ours, this one also so that we receive this report, simply as information that we do not discuss it, because we have nothing to discuss. The third foreign policy committee believes this report should be discussed. In my opinion, everyone needs to discuss it. However, what to say about that report, which was sent to someone, without a communication code. This report has no communication code. There are not those who made it, there are not those who stand behind it, who should defend it, and in fact there are not even those who should rule about it, because this report was supposed to be in the procedure of that Parliament, or the home of the people. That is why I would like to first determine committees on the work of committees to accept one, second or third position of these committees and then, if we need to discuss this report. I've been through it. Some things a little bit more detail, some just superficially and, I simply conclude, there's no point in discussing this report until the end. Let us take it into account, accept it as information and let it remain there, because if this report is not interested in the new Council of Ministers as a legal and working follower of all what the previous Council of Ministers has done, I do not know what is and what is the interest of this House to discuss it until the end. If we're going to discuss something, then we either have to accept or reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u163	I thank Mr. Zrn. Mr. Čengić is answering for his word. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u164	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, let me begin, precisely from what Mr. Zrna has finished, and that is what to discuss, if the current Council of Ministers has not shown interest, why should I debate this home. I cannot agree with that view, because I think it is, in fact, quite normal that the current Council of Ministers cannot take responsibility for what is in this report and for what the Council of Ministers has been doing, because it is a new assembly. At the same time, why didn't the previous assembly of the House of Nations discuss this issue, we can't change that. That's a fact. Whether he was supposed to go through some procedure and be discussed at that home, he probably is, but he's not. As it has not been discussed so far, I believe that this home has an obligation, therefore, not only necessary but also an obligation to divulge this report. For me, this question is not at all questionable. I think we should discuss it. Of course, an active debate requires two sides. We now have a situation to speak on the one hand, therefore, as members of the House, and at the same time we do not have members of the Council of Ministers, who have done these jobs and who have prepared this report. It's a rather uncomfortable position. However, we have an obligation to discuss this and I will not run away from this obligation and I believe that in this debate we should be very clear and talk about what are facts, talk about what are known things and give my assessment of what has been done and what has not been done. Because we are obliged and because this council should also see from our remarks and discussion what is positive and what was negative in the work of the previous Council in order to avoid the negativity and to keep positive things going. In that sense, I'll start with what I think is positive. In my opinion, the individual most important achievement in which the Council of Ministers participated, in a certain way, is the establishment of a Joint Border Service. I consider it the most important individual achievement in the previous term, and if I consider it an extremely important role to be the UN Mission and Head of Mission or Head of Mission and Mission of Ambassador Klajn and I hold that it is something that gives space and gives the opportunity to continue this trend now, in the sense that the positive fruits of it are finally taking place, i.e. First of all, the reduction of smuggling, control of BiH's entry, etc. If we are talking about other things, I would only like to say a few things that are mentioned in this opening part of the report, which, among other things, says that a series of acts have been adopted to create a favourable environment for the creation of domestic production, increase of foreign direct investment and the basis for the growth of exports of goods and services. Thus, a series of acts have been adopted, which should create a more favourable environment for increasing foreign investment. I have no dilemmas that acts are a very important thing to fix that ambience for foreign investment, but this is also the kind of attitude Parliament could make in its work to say that it has brought, etc. However, the Council of Ministers is also responsible for the implementation of acts and the Council of Ministers is responsible for promoting foreign investment. I believe that in this sense, the Council of Ministers missed its chance and did not do what was necessary from close proximity. It is a sad fact, especially that the Council of Ministers in the past meeting was formed on sails and on winds that promised only assistance by the fact that such a council was established and such a relationship between forces, political forces in Parliament. Unfortunately, this council of ministers did not take advantage of that favor, that affection, above all European countries and America, and did not turn it into something that would be tangible and that would be foreign investment. Conversely, overall, the conditions in which it had previously acted were more difficult than in these previous two years, and the proportion of foreign investment over the past two years and the previous years are, in favour of the previous period. 28 Second, which is also interesting, is one contradiction, the fundamental contradiction between this position on page 3 and the same position on page 3 which says that, within its global framework, "Strategy and Economic Development BiH" was adopted as part of the adopted paper, "A Action Plan to Remove Administrative Barriers for Investments in BiH". Now, watch out, the Action Plan has been adopted and this is said in the next paragraph, and previously said the problems that have burdened foreign investment have already been solved. If you look further, you will see that this action plan and some other things should be adopted only this year. They're just being prepared and should be adopted this year. So it is that the Council of Ministers mainly wrote papers and did not worry about the implementation and presentation of BiH when it comes to foreign investment. On the other hand, without foreign investment, there could be no privatisation, in large privatisation. Without foreign investment, there could be no greater job creation and without foreign investments there could be no larger exports. Therefore, one of the key concepts of starting an economy in BiH is definitely these three: privatisation, primarily alongside foreign investments and then following this two-way increase in exports and a reduction in imports. Because, right through privatisation and foreign investment, there will be production, which will be able to secure products on our market, therefore, domestic products, to replace the products that we are now importing. Of this, unfortunately, what should be earned is not done is due attention and respect. The next thing, the CIPS project is said to have successfully led to a phase when the first ID cards were issued. Yeah. As we successfully see, even the high representative now had to intervene in the price of ID cards as part of the project, and secondly, more importantly, it is never an clarified question in which way and under what conditions and why this contractor was chosen, or those companies that got the CIPS job, and not some others. I have to be clear here, the opposition who asked that question did not have enough space and representatives of the ruling parties in the previous Parliament's meeting did not have enough determination and will to bring the issue to light. I am convinced that there will be more debate about this, and I do not take any great credit for this beginning to realize this project. On the contrary, I believe that he is, in fact, hiding some very important things, and that, among other things, is probably a question of a kind of corruption that, just in the past, the Council has sworn to put an end to it, and not just ordinary but sophisticated ones. The next thing is that the co-ordination team for economic development and European integration has contributed to harmonising activities of importance for establishing a single economic space in BiH. I'd be too happy if this was done. I'd really like that. I will say that, unfortunately, this is not true and the breath has avoided a series of lists and evidence I will only use one, and that is the difference in prices for mandatory oil and oil products in Brcko District and other parts of BiH that have definitely drained the budgets of both the Federation and the RS, and thus directly affected Budžet BiH. On the other hand, entities did not have and do not have the instruments to impose a solution, therefore, against the response to the decisions of the Brcko District and the only point where it could be solved was the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers did so reluctantly, undecidedly, unqualityly, with great delay and caused significant damage both to the entity budgets and to the budgets of BiH. The next thing, the Council of Ministers is lacking in this report that measures have been taken, here you have it, that it has taken measures to resolve these imports of oil and oil products, and they say they have established a domestic control institution, etc. as it will increase production in domestic capacities, in domestic refineries, etc. 29 That they did not do so, that they did not indeed, unfortunately, show an analysis which you can do on yesterday, on a day from seven days ago or from 15 days ago. About how much is produced in domestic capacities, how much imports are made and how dangerous a imbalance exists between the factually established INE monopoly on one side, using existing contracts, between BiH and Croatia's state contracts and other importers in BiH or processors in BiH. I'm saying this all together, not just because I think these are things that the Council of Ministers didn't do. It started, but it didn't work. I will also say why I don't think it worked, because in the Council of Ministers itself, it has become a significant resistance to important centres of power, to establish uniform rules of play for everyone, and that these rules are then implemented. This has caused damage to that budget, and if the Council of Ministers does not correct this failure to implement the agreed one, then we too will pay for the fat damage to the budgets, through the inability to carry out certain obligations, etc. So, by sticking to just a few of these facts that I am not going further to the idea of protecting domestic production, which, unfortunately, is nowhere near protected, because the right measures were not found, there was no system found, and there was a system through the possibility of increasing customs duties, for example. to tobacco and alcohol, to provide funds to encourage domestic production, in particular food, therefore, nothing has been done in that part and if it can be arranged. I repeat, please repeat, the past Council of Ministers boasted that its most important characteristics and greatest value was that it finally succeeded in establishing contacts with entities, harmonising regulations and decisions and functioning unitedly in the entire BiH area. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. For all these reasons and many others, such as the issue of selling gold reserves or gold that BiH received through a succession, the question arises, in fact, how many people who did this job did well, if we know that gold was sold somewhere, if memory serves me somewhere in October of the month, at a time when it was almost clear that the prices of gold on the world market will grow, because of the situation and the overall political situation in the world does not need anyone, who understands it, to wait for a few months and make significant funds. The difference between when gold is sold then and what is now pretty, maybe even about 15%. I repeat, it's not a question of any knickers, it's a question of an elementary knowledge of the market and of the movement of the market, and I'm not going into whether it was necessary at that time to sell gold at all, or maybe it was better to keep it, so do something else. All in all, I am very sorry, but really, I am very sorry that we do not have representatives of the Council of Ministers here, who acted last year and who wrote this report that I hear their answers and, of course, can respond further, but I believe that this report shows even what the writer did not want to say, therefore, a series of things that the Council did not do, were not even mentioned, so we could only discuss what the Council was chosen to mention in this report, regardless of all this, I do not think that this report can be accepted by the present and we cannot assess it either the report or the work, we cannot assess positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u165	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here you go. Representative Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u166	Mr. President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I think we must respect the Constitution and the Law and the Rules of Procedure, and here we have already tried to change it today, but we respect the current Rules of Procedure. So it is our obligation to consider 30 reports on the work of the Council of Ministers, regardless of which he is not from this call and that we do not have those who will answer our questions. But there is a procedure that we must respect about the Rules of Procedure and there are commitments taken. So there is a continuity of the work of the state authorities. We can't say now that BiH's history and activities begin with this calling. Forget that something's happened before. The assessment of how good it was and whether it had a passing grade, that's another thing, but there were activities, and among other things, we have some of the material that is in front of us, which was done in the last session, which we are going to decide on today, and that is why I am the advocate that we, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the obligations of the House of Nations, are discussing and giving an assessment of the work of ministers. It will be insufficient because we do not have arguments and explanations for any possible questions of ours and will not be explained to us for some of our dilemmas, but the fact is that the Council of Ministers has been working under the Constitution and the Law that obliges it. What I would particularly point out is that the current assembly and current structure of the Council of Ministers has in mind what the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, will say in the previous report as one lesson from which we will learn not to make mistakes again. And that's to go back to the jurisdictional frameworks we have. We often carry out ourselves so that, without differentiating our obligations to the House of Peoples, sometimes we seize the obligations of the House of Representatives, which we shouldn't, or often let the commission take off and take the jurisdiction of this home, which as responsible people we should be careful that everyone works in their own domain. I wouldn't be here talking about the details, about the report because there are no people who could give answers or explain it to me so we could create a more realistic picture, but in principle I would discuss and say that it's an obligation and that we learn a few lessons from this report for the future report of our call, so to speak. The general rating was given through the last election, and that's clear and we don't need to be bickering here right now. You know that we are now the ones who have come and done what they've done, but let's learn from other people's mistakes, not on our own, and if we get out of this, I would be apostrophe once more, I would return to the frameworks of the Constitution prescribed, which are the powers of the Council of Ministers and discuss them with them to learn lessons and build them up and coordinate them. The fact is that executive harmonisation between entities in the BiH state structure is a government at the level of Bosnia and Authority at entity level. But that it is insufficient is the same, also the fact that it is the task of the future Council of Ministers to do more in this field and in accordance with the law, the regulations that we have and to propose new ones that we do not have, to coordinate and do this, this area of economic interest in economic prosperity, which is in principle our task. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u167	I thank Mr. Radović. Who else wants to hear from you? If no one wants to, I'll do it for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, what my predecessors have been saying, fellow MPs and I agree with the great majority, of course, and I join the grades that this report is very missing, it's missing in the approach itself. So the way the report is drawn up, so there are no evenly uniform criteria for writing this report in certain parts of it. Namely, this is a collection of reports by individual ministries, and the approach to making a report by some ministries has been significantly different, from that of certain, individual jobs described in detail and in detail to others where very important information has been left out of this report. 31 It is especially an interesting opening part, although it does not say that it is an introductory part, but at the beginning it is, so I consider it as an introductory part. Here, in a number of qualifications, there are some jobs done during the reporting period. So it is said that the work of this Council of Ministers' call has passed synchronised and constructively. And the decisions made by the concession. We also have another finding that says the results have been achieved in the reporting period, the results can be assessed successfully from the aspect of the implementation of the established programme objectives as well as beyond the programme activities of the Council of Ministers' and ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. So they're trying to praise themselves a little bit, but without any arguments and giving the good or the positive that's been done and the positive shifts in this country, which are the result of the work of this previous government. I think that otherwise, the work of the Council of Ministers in the past meeting cannot be assessed well and positively from the results of the work that can be measured quantitatively, so what is done, which is the quality of the moves forward. So, for example. It is also mentioned here by the World Trade Organisation, the World Trade Organisation, it would be convenient for it to stand which is one of the obligations which Bosnia and Herzegovina has accepted and fulfilled and when expected and what may be to be done, perhaps the part that is written in this report to the next government, so to the next current current current Council of Ministers' meeting. There's no mention of that. Then, when we remember that we were already being represented, I think Mr. Spasojević spoke at the point of the budget for this year where he talked about several data on the most important macroeconomic indicators in this country that are bad, I would say even in one part of the disaster because they have a trend of deterioration. This is what we should be concerned about here by the representatives, which should be concerned especially by the Council of Ministers and all those who are at any level of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we have a reduction in the number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina over the last year. We have an average wage reduction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have the lowest rate of investment per capita of all transition countries. Not to mention some other indicators that are very similar to these, unfortunately. Nothing has happened in these last two years or here's the last year I've been talking about her, it hasn't happened and it hasn't gotten any better. The truth of some minor improvements have been made, someone here mentioned DGS and some other minor improvements. However, my general assessment is such that it can be said that there has been insufficient positive shifts in any sector of life and work. Even if we mention our foreign trade deficit here, then we can still round up the picture. I'd like a few more just a few more details to support what I've said in general. At our last session, I asked the question of permits in the international transport of goods, so to their number, quantity and method of distribution. I didn't get the answer, and this is like a criticism to this new government, or the Council of Ministers in this meeting. However, here the report mentions very briefly, the truth is mentioned in one sentence as a problem, and it is said that there remains a problem with ensuring the necessary number of bilateral permits for Italy and Austria, which will be sought at a more favourable solution at the next meetings of mixed committees from these two countries. I expected, however, in the report at least those basic rough data on the number of these permits listed here as controversial not to mention that also a small number of annual CEM permits etc. And now just, I wanted to back this up, so we don't have enough information important in this report, and we have a lot of some that might not be so important, so I don't know how much I don't know either. It's important, of course, but even in kind, I don't know pills, ecstasy, etc. I'm not going to say this isn't irrelevant, but I think some 32 more important things have been missed in this report, and some details that may not have deserved to be here have found their place. I end up agreeing, of course, and I advocate that we are talking about this report today, we are discussing, we have our own position, but that we neither adopt it nor reject it, but that perhaps our comments on this report serve the current Council of Ministers that everything that was not good is not repeated, and all that they have missed the previous assembly that they try to do. I'll just have one more sentence at the end. When the Council of Ministers who wrote this report came so the seat took its seat two years ago, then the word that was unforgivable was reform. And here in the report we see that this word is mentioned very rarely, and they were probably right when they wrote it like that, because actually, from what was said, almost nothing or very, very little was done. Who else wants to come forward for a debate? If there isn't, then I suggest we end up with this point in a way that we've discussed this report, said our position to make a statement about it. Do you accept such a provision or something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u168	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u169	Okay. I thank Šiljegović a lot. Here I think we're done with this agenda. So we don't have to plead. We've received a report of knowledge, we've given our opinion about it, and here I think we can end it. Is this in line with the Rules of Procedure? So we don't have to. We have also consulted professional services where we are told by the secretary that we do not have to plead. Okay. Yes, it is. It's best we don't adopt him. Well, then maybe it is. It's best if we say it's not a good report and it's over. Let's just make a deal with our colleagues, shall we make a statement about the report or not? _________(?) We've declared that we've received it. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Okay. So to adopt the conclusion that we're a report, then we should also evaluate it if we've received it. 33 All right, then, can we do this? [[joint discussion from the site]] So we're proposing to conclude that we've been reviewing the report, we've assessed it as missing, we've assessed the report's work on the report, the bad, the missing, the missing report, and we're receiving the report to the knowledge. To make that our conclusion. So that's our conclusion, so we don't say anything about the report. _______(?) But then we can't say it was bad if we don't plead. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] We can say that we have received it to knowledge, or to make a statement about it, so that we may say who is in favour, who is against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u172	Well, everyone has the right initiative. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u173	No, not absolutely. I'll just say two sentences here, but I think you MPs have studied all this, but still two things, I seem to be studying this law, I have to highlight this here and for the sake of the public. Namely in the law that entered into force on 21.3. In 2002, it says that the process of proposal and approval or refusal will be done by emergency procedure. Furthermore, the law mentions a 30-day period. However, the activities surrounding this nomination, i.e. the process of running, i.e. the appointments of these people, began significantly later than this 30-day deadline, i.e. in Republika Srpska at 6 months, and in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at about 7 months. And I don't understand what's been going on for eight months, or seven months. And so this law that regulated this area is the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Power System Operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the powers of this commission are extremely large, this is a very important commission, a very important commission and has a very important task in transforming and preparing the electricity system for privatisation and restructuring. Later, too, her powers are very high. They're listed even at 18 points in this law. Here I have initially said the most important and perhaps one of the remarks that are important and which could be, at least I respect it is the fact that there was no institute, competition of public or internal or any conditions that would be prescribed for people who run for these important places. Here are the people who wrote this letter, so Mr. Master Hilmo Šehović and his colleagues say that, say, in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, there was a competition for selecting such a similar commission that has these rights of 10 candidates. I think it is one quality we should always consider, especially when we know that the Law on the State Agency has been passed, as well as about officials. So it's always after the competition, etc. etc. Here's what I wanted to say at the beginning is something that I believe you all are, and you know, but here I still couldn't say what's most important and most important that we might open this topic in one quality way and really consider from all aspects what has come and here in the law says – the Council of Ministers will deliver proposals to the BiH Parliament that can accept or reject the proposed candidate. If the BiH Parliament rejects the proposed member of the commission from one or both entities, the entities that propose it will propose another member of the commission and submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers. So this is what I'm saying. Yeah, it says so in the law. ________(?) The Council of Ministers shall determine the proposal. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Not to say how. Yes, it is, but the run goes from the ethnic governments, it begins. Yes, it is. I'll just have another one here. Excuse me, here we go before the others get involved. The BiH Parliament is the only one who can replace a DerK member. Before the end of a certain term of office of such a change may occur exclusively in a limited number of circumstances and that is a) the disease which disenfranchises a member of the commission means for the performance of this job b) the finding guilty of a criminal offence punishably in prison and c) the existence of a conflict of interest etc. 35 d) resigning, e) failure to fulfil the work obligations reflected in the work and violation of the ethical code, which we do not yet have. Mr. Anto Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u175	Mr. President, gentlemen, here's the president you've already told us how important this committee is, but the Croatian People's Club of Representatives thinks it's been a long time means a few months, 10 months from this proposal, and we're fairly unaware of this person and we're proposing a 10 minute break to consult and then give a concrete proposal for this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u176	Thank you very much. Is there anything else before this break, if there's anything else to say? Thank you very much. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. /PAUZA 1O MINUTE/ We continue to work. Mr. Spajić asked for a 10-minute break, so it always extends, so Mr. Spajić will have to say the reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u177	Mr. President, gentlemen, this break has certainly been worth it, and we have come to the conclusion that the procedure in these candidates' proposal for this very important and important commission has not been respected. The Club of Envoys of the Croatian People proposes to return this to the beginning and to comply with the procedure under the applicable legal rules and simply to this home when it comes here to accept and adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u178	All right. Mr. Radovanović
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u179	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this initiative is federal, entityal and concerns two candidates coming from the Federation of BiH, to Mr Alija Muharemović and Vinko Bošnjak, I suggest we separate the vote on candidates. Since they come entity meanings from the Republika Srpska entity, one candidate comes, and these two come from the Federation entity, so let's split that vote and vote individually on candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u180	Mr. Čengić is answering for his word. Mr. Čengić, go ahead. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u181	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, therefore, on the trail of what Mr. Spajić has suggested, bearing in mind the fact that the procedure is not respected in relation to the candidate's proposal, at least as far as the candidates proposed in the Federation are concerned, I support his proposal and I think it is right to return the procedure and I would just like to say that Mr. Spajić, too, will probably agree with me to say the following, that we are really asking the Federation's competent institutions, or the Federation's Parliament, to respond as soon as possible to the procedures, so that, by respecting the procedure of a candidate and that the Council of Ministers responds as soon as they get the proposal to parliament. On the one hand. On the other hand, highly esteeming the importance of this institution and its importance in the overall activity, I would like to say that we also intend as the Bosniak Club and individually in this club to support the work and activities of this institution and the Council of Ministers in relation to this regulatory commission and in no way does this request have any interest in delaying. Conversely, we believe that the procedure should be respected, as soon as possible by the new procedure, to get new candidates in order to get candidates who would be accepted and then to participate in the work together with the Council of Ministers in everything they are responsible for and why they will need to carry out their tasks. For this reason, I would like to join this proposal and suggest that we get new bids in the agreed procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u182	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? So here's what short means to recap and figure out how we're gonna get this job done. I figured this out that we should do it the next way. It means to separate the statement on candidates, means especially the candidates from the Federation of BiH, Mr Vinko Bošnjak and Alija Muharemović. And in part two on candidates, candidate from the Republic of Srspka master Vladimir Dokić. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u183	Dear colleagues, the chairman just quoted the provisions of laws that regulate the Commission's issue, not the Parliamentary Assembly on entity candidates. The Parliamentary Assembly declares a proposal by the Council of Ministers on the composition of the commission, and the Council of Ministers provides proposals in accordance with the procedure carried out in entities. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. So it can essentially happen that the candidate from one entity can be re-delivered or it doesn't have to be delivered unless it's disputed, but from one entity can be challenged candidates as it happened this time. And now the Council of Ministers since the Council of Ministers' proposal on the Commission is rejected, if rejected, then the Council of Ministers is required to set up a new proposal. Therefore, it is impossible from the aspect of the procedure situation to choose from one entity member and from the other does not choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u184	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Filipović. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u185	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished fellow MPs, I deeply appreciate the efforts of Dr. Genjac to legally explain what the law on transmission, regulator and operator of the electricity system in Bosnia and Herzegovina stands for, but I think that by reading article 4.4, which speaks of when this distinguished House discusses the proposal of the Council of Ministers, we can act in the way proposed by Mr. Spasojevic forgive me, Mr. Spasojević, I apologize to the gentleman from the order of the SPS people Radovanović. You see, this home will either accept or reject the proposed candidates proposed by the Council of Ministers who implemented the previous procedure in order to reach this proposal for members of this state commission. The entity that proposes that if this House rejects the proposed candidates, will propose another member of the commission and submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers. It is therefore quite clear that we can declare ourselves here on the proposed candidates, since we have heard the opinion of the representatives of the Bosniak people and representatives of the Croatian people that we can plead against the proposal of these candidates in this body. At the same time, we can support the proposed candidate, which the Council of Ministers has established at the proposal of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u186	I thank Mr Filipović. Here you go. Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u187	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, a very important Derk function, and at a particularly current moment when very bile activities are being conducted regarding the energy system in Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So as the House of Peoples, we would like to know the need for a quick resolution and the establishment of the State Power Regulatory Commission to demand that the new proposal from the Federation of BiH be delivered as soon as possible, because two candidates have been challenged. Our candidate from Republika Srpska is undisputed and he remains waiting for a new proposal from the Federation of BiH entity, because the commission is working on a tripartite. So it can't be, she's a pain in the ass and she can't function if we have one member. And I think it would be our request and appeal to speed up the proposal and to have it as soon as possible, because this commission has great importance in the coming period in terms of tariff and other rules that are ahead of electricity to end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u188	Okay, thank Mr. Radović. Mr. Neimralija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u189	The debate, as long as there is no misunderstanding, is that this conclusion is that we return, we reject the proposal of the Federation candidate, not to challenge candidates, but to a procedure that is not respected. We're getting things back to normal, which doesn't mean we don't even rule out the possibility of them being the same. So there's not just a dilemma here with a view to that conclusion, although it probably won't be. So we're asking the Federation of the Federation to carry out proper procedures under the law. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u190	By law, only by law, everything in the law writes. Okay. Now can we get a summary of it for a little while? I think we've reached a sufficient degree of harmony so we can make this clear. It means that we have challenged the procedural correctness of the Federation candidateship and we suggest that it return to the beginning and that everything as stated in the law in Article 4.4 is done, that is, for candidates. [[Common discussion]] We don't mention him at all, he stays in the proposal. But it's no use because it can't. Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u192	You can change your mind. We're giving you a chance to change your mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u193	Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u194	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, dear guests, I see no reason here to impose anything on anyone. Our correct position was, we talked to representatives and the Croatian club and the Bosniak club, you challenge candidates from your people and we have nothing against it and we will vote for them the way you opt. And that's why we expect you to vote the way we do for a candidate from the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u195	But the Goran just call for us to come forward today, and then everything's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u196	Yeah. I thought today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u197	Okay. Here. __________? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] And let us be clear about him. It says here about the candidate, the House, or Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, declares itself. It's not about the list. It's about the candidate. Okay. 39 Do we have a deal then? So we're making a statement about the candidate first, let's, let's. About candidates from the Federation of BiH to challenge their candidacy and return it to the beginning and to the Government of the Federation, or later Parliament, and then yes, all act in accordance with the Law of point 4.4. That's where it's all defined. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's in? Who's against it? - One abstention? No one thanks me, I agree that with 14 votes for, 1 against, without abstention, we have decided to challenge the appointment of Mr Vink Bošnjak and Alija Muharemović of the Federation and to return the procedure to the beginning and to proceed fully with Article 4.4 of this law which regulated it to be done urgently, urgently, within 30 days. We are now pleading on this second part of the motion for a decision, which is that from the Republika Srpska Mr. Mr. Vladimir Dokić has appointed a member of the State Regulatory Agency, the Commission for Electricity. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. I understand that we have unanimously chosen Mr. Poirot. Vladimir Dokić as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, short for Derk. Well, we said after this point we'd set a half-hour break so we could get something to eat and get some rest. It means continuing at 4:00, but let's be exact for real. Every time we're late, at least twice as long.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u200	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Vice-President, the honourable envoys. The agenda item which is now under discussion as well as several of the following concerns international agreements and agreements. According to the procedure as prescribed by the law on the procedure for the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements after the expert processor has passed the final variant of the contract signed, i.e. the agreement is forwarded to the Presidency of the Presidency, such an act shall be forwarded to the Parliamentary Assembly for the purpose of giving prior consent. Such a situation is also the case in this particular case, i.e. in other cases in the case of the following contracts, i.e. the agreements which are under discussion before this high House. What is before the envoys is, therefore, the enforcement of what is provided for on the one hand in the law, which represents only the development of constitutional provisions that provide for the joint competence of these two bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency when it comes to ratification of international agreements. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u201	I thank Mr. Grbić. I call on representatives or committee presidents to be seen on this document. Mr. Ilija Filipović, Constitutional and ustavno-pravni.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u202	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished fellow MPs, respected guests, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been considering the Treaty on Double Citizenship between BiH and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is proposing the BiH Presidency and has accepted the text of the Treaty as it has arrived in this authorized commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission recommends this home since it unanimously accepted the text of the agreement that this House would agree to ratify this treaty, thus making this legal act as well as any other acts proposed by the BiH Presidency an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal order. I personally have the hope that we will have very soon to consider the same contract between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, because it will certainly be like this contract and the one we expect, at least we from the Croatian People's Club, a contract that will delight numerous citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina from all three peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u203	I thank Mr Filipović. Who else wants to hear from you? Mr. Čengić. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u204	Mr. Chairman and distinguished colleagues, here according to our agenda, item 10 is the BiH-SFRJ Double Citizenship Treaty. I suppose it should have stood – ratification, adoption and I don't know how, and it doesn't stand here and in a series of other these points is the same state of things. Well, I'd like to ask for technical services, and so would you in college because if I put this in order right now, then. The minutes of the 2nd session, which means adoption, refusal, consideration, etc. They're hard-listed, there's a list of these materials, and it's not really the agenda point. If it's ratification or ratification, then it's contract ratification, so let's know it's that, that. That's number one. Number two. We at the Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade Commission discussed the following fact, Mr. Chairman, that we had not received information on this agreement, that the material had not been delivered to us and that none of us had asked us to consider this. Discussing this issue, we have taken the view that we should and have taken the view that the chair of the Commission and the two deputies will request a meeting with the dom Kolegija to discuss this issue and similar issues on how you, as the College, will continue to distribute materials to the committees, and the opinion was that, having in mind Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure in which it is said - is considering issues, so the Commission on Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade, page 25, paragraph 45 - examines issues of agreement for ratification of international contracts. We believe that this commission of ours should have gotten this material and come forward with it. 41 For today’s situation, we have about two possibilities for our understanding. It is one thing to take a break and ask that the Commission declare it or another, to bring home that in this case today, the Commission will not declare this, but that in future such materials will go to the Commission and then to the House, and that the House will decide directly today on this case. So whatever of this two you do, it's up to your colleagues to make a decision, but we think it might be useful in the future for the House and you from the College to deliver these materials to our commission. Nothing more than to be informed in time and to be able to take our stand. I would, after saying to the House about this under quotes, retain the right to report to discuss the agreement itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u205	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Čengić is right, he quotes the Rules of Procedure well. That's exactly what it says. There's been a leak. Here's what I suggest is that we fix it in a way that we don't argue with this today, but in the future, we really try to do everything we can to stop making such failures. Here, can we accept this and move on to the debate? I thank you all for your understanding, here's your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u206	(didn't go out for a pay phone)
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u207	Absolutely. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u208	Just Mr. President and the esteemed colleagues, to correct it, it seems to me a technical mistake. The contract says double citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the SFRY. She's gone. Don't make a deal with someone who's not here. Serbia-Montenegro should write here. _______(?) That contract's been Poptisan. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] But look out, there's no state. But I think it would be useful to correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u210	Let the lawyers see what's possible. 42 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u211	Okay. Of course, of course. That's enough to say. That's clear. I think so. Yes, it is. It is often changed in these areas, names and arrangements, so to speak. Excuse me. We live in such a place in such times. Okay. Here I think we can appreciate this, so the fact that the legal follower of SFRY is Serbia-Montenegro, the state of Serbia-Montenegro, is now called. But here's the thing. That's how they do it. Okay. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Okay, I don't see any reports, I suggest we vote for the Ratification Decision, means giving consent to ratify this double citizenship agreement between BiH and the SFRY. Proposer of the BiH Presidency. hasane, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u212	I'm really sorry. I expected one of my colleagues to come forward. I would avoid discussing this agreement even though I remember, and I believe you remember that this agreement was at a time when it was negotiated, especially when it was signed caused significant controversy. It's signed in Belgrade. The foreign minister expressed restraint or opposition to the signing. The BiH foreign minister at the time, which I must admit is a nonsez, probably cannot happen in another country, but here we have a minister sign the contract, and the foreign minister says he shouldn't have signed it to protest, etc. No matter what I'm saying, there's one more thing that matters here. We in Bosnia or rather, we Bosniaks felt that equality was the position of all three nations the only guarantee for normal development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we talk about it then we know that there are always two, those two concepts that we call Belgrade and Zagreb, and now we have this dual citizenship agreement with Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro. We feel it is necessary and it would be good to adopt here the conclusion that such an agreement is necessary as soon as possible to prepare and sign with the Republic of Croatia. We do not negotiate, we do not participate in these negotiations as Parliament, but we believe that this is an opportunity and a time for such a single proposal to be launched from our side and we do not consider that there is any reason that would be contrary, especially now that we have this contract which may be corrected in some variants, but in any case as one basis which can be used for further negotiations. In order not to have speculation, I will be very clear, so there is a possibility in public that there are speculations if this agreement with Yugoslavia is adopted today, don't be mad at me just talking about speculations, I disagree with them, the minister of foreign affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina who Srbin or may not have as much interest in rushing this agreement with the Republic of Croatia. I don't think so, but it would be good if we didn't come to any situation, any further speculation and difficulties to speed up this agreement with the Republic of Croatia, so in this sense some simplest conclusion 43 in one sentence that it is asked by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to speed up negotiations on and prepare a double citizenship agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. So on this agreement that I believe we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u213	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u214	Well, Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, although Mr. Čengić said he didn't believe in speculation, I don't see any reason why there would be speculation here, and I don't believe there would be any obstruction in the sense in which you spoke, and here I am ready to support also the signing of a similar or the same agreement with the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u215	I thank Mr. Milojević. Then let's get this straight, and then we'll get to the bottom of it. So I already said, I just didn't say I'm voting. Here I am now voting on the basis of the proposal for a decision to give consent to ratification of the Double Citizenship Treaty of BiH and the SFRY. Proposer of the BiH Presidency. Who's in? Unanimity. I thank all of you and I agree that we unanimously adopted, that is to say, the agreement on dual citizenship between BiH and the SFRY that came from the BiH presidency. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Excuse me, excuse me, the conclusion was very brief and I liked it also to mean that it was asked by the Council of Ministers to speed up the activities in making the same or similar whether the dual citizenship agreement with Hrvatska. Yes, it is BiH with the Republic of Croatia. Who's to this conclusion? Unanimity. I thank all of you and I agree that we have unanimously adopted a conclusion asking the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to speed up their activities in drawing up a double citizenship agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. This concludes this agenda point and we move on to the next eleventh Ad. 11. The International Convention on the Prevention of Financing of Terrorism adopted by the UN General Assembly on 9 December 1999, Proposer of the BiH Presidency. I call on the Proposer or the rapporteur on behalf of the Proposer to explain this Convention. Mr. Grbić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the mentioned convention at this point in the agenda, the same argument is therefore the same, the procedure prescribed by the law on the conclusion procedure is such that before the Bureau ratifys a certain international act the Parliamentary Assembly gives its consent to this. So until the House of Peoples it is to consider giving consent and to act according to the law of the prescribed procedure. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u217	I thank Mr. Grbić. Who wants to take your word for it? Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u218	Just one suggestion. We don't need a proposal to remind us of the procedure. We know that we need to give consent to ratification of international agreements and that's it. Usually, we had a representative by the promoter who briefly came to know the basics of a particular document. A dual citizenship agreement with Yugoslavia, what content, in a couple of lines, is what it is. This conflict agreement, what is it, which is the convention, what does it contain? So that the proposings, or representatives of the proposings who are present here, to present these conventions to us in the most important ones, of course, we have studied this in detail, but this is useful for us, too, to have these representatives of institutions who propose those basic indications in the context of Bosnia and Herzegovina tell us about these documents so that we can have them in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u219	I thank Mr. Genjac, and I think he's quite right, but here's what we'll look for in the future. I call on the working bodies or commissions to give their statement. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u220	Mr. Chairman, Vice-Presidents and distinguished colleagues, both this and this international convention, as well as the Protocol under point 17 and the Convention on the Restraint of Illegal Parts under point 18, was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. With the permission of both fellow MPs and their vice-presidents, I would give for all these acts, as the proposing presidency, since we only give consent to ratifying this on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission means for acts under this point, point 17 and point 18. The Constitutional and Legal Commission proposes to the House to give consent to these acts be ratified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u221	I thank Mr Filipović. We heard the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Does anyone have a discussion? Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Čengić. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u222	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, but this time you've already earned my intervention. I won't miss the chance to criticize you a little. If I criticize others, I have a good chance today and you. Point 11 is the International Convention, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly. I appeal again to Rule 25 of the Rules of Procedure and to that provision under Mr. but this time and the provision under B. that says - therefore the commission is considering issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina's co-operation with the UN. We didn't even get this material as a commission, so as far as the UN's concerned, I would ask you, I suggest we do the same thing as last time at the point. So that we don't stop the work of the House, that we don't have a special session for today, but that in the future you have that in mind, so that in the future we get these materials so that we can make ourselves known as the Commission in time. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u223	I thank Mr. Čengić. You're right about B and G, but it's worth the same reason. So in the future, we're really going to look after this for real. Okay. Thank you. Any reports of anyone wanting a hearing? There isn't. If there is no I suggest we approach the plea and I suggest we make a decision on granting consent to ratify the International Convention on the Prevention of Financing of Terrorism adopted by the General Assembly on 9 December 1999. Proposer of the BiH Presidency. Who's in? Unanimity. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted, made a decision to give consent to ratify the said convention. We're going to the twelveth point of the Ad agenda. 12. The Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey, the proposal of the BiH Presidency, we have won the Materials. I call on the Proposer to explain the Objection. Mr. Ante Grbić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u224	Gentlemen, the procedure for ratifying international acts is very complex and complex. This characterization of the Presidency as a proposing is more in the context of the fact that the material came from the Presidency itself, and the role of the Presidency is actually specific since the professional processors of the other institution. If it were to be evaluated in his work technology, then it would be desirable for me to conclude that it was to be satisfied with what was asked for, therefore, that I had purposely said in an explanation to the previous that of the international act. So the role of the Presidency is, at the very least, if it is not the same which is almost consistent with Parliament's role in the process of conclusion, so it ratifies with previous consent. So it's about making decisions from the two authorities. 46 So all that has been said before in other international acts which this house has debated also applies in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u225	I thank Mr. Grbić. I call on the commission's working bodies to give their testimony. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u226	Mr. Chairman, colleagues of the Foreign and Foreign Trade Commission have been considering this contract and I must say that it has been a great pleasure for us to have had the opportunity to attend the work of the Commission and the President of the Foreign Trade Ministry, which was very useful for us because we have had the opportunity to, in a very comprehensive presentation, even the presentation, Mrs. Cerić informs us of the overall state of affairs when it comes to the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the World Trade Organisation, when it comes to the signing of bilateral trade agreements, etc. From all that I'll say next. The Commission unanimously agreed to support the ratification of this agreement and not to report again, I will take advantage of the opportunity only in the shortest possible time to say what it is that is the event specificity of this contract. So Bosnia and Herzegovina exports 50% of its exports to the European, common European market, but is also without, in fact, without restrictions and conditions, without quotas, without limits to quantities, etc. While this Europe has united Europe, the European Community has asked Bosnia and Herzegovina, or indirectly conditioned its further exports by co-operation in the region on the principle of co-operation with the countries of the Stability Pact, which our neighbouring countries are entering, an identical agreement has already been signed on this with Yugoslavia, with the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia, and here today we have two such contracts. One is with Turkey, one is with Macedonia. So these bilateral agreements are interesting because we're being solved by customs, opened by these markets, and for the specificity of this contract there are two things. First, so far the signed contracts of this kind have been favoured by Bosnia and Herzegovina, so release from customs duty three years from the day of signing, and as far as this agreement is concerned with Turkey, we have the privilege of five years, but therefore not from today, but from the day this agreement is signed, which means that we have, in fact, still four years of this privilege, which is very favourable. And secondly, more importantly, all the countries in this part of Europe that we have signed with, we intend to sign a contract may have about 6 million inhabitants, and Turkey itself has 65 million inhabitants. This means that it is a really large market, a market that is used by a lot of goods and on which Bosnia and Herzegovina has so far, has traditionally not been present. So not just in the last five or ten years, but in the last 50 years. Because it's a market that's at the level of development, etc. very similar to ours, so our goods can compete, since national income is bigger than ours perhaps 2.5 times, then it is certainly one market that can be interesting to us and these are the additional reasons why the Commission felt that this agreement should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u227	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there? Here you go. Would you like to come out? 47
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u228	Don't be afraid of my boss. She's working. I just wanted to add that the Free Trade Agreement with the Republic of Turkey does not enter into force from the date of signature of the Agreement, but from the day of its entry into force is considered a date of ratification, i.e....(stip) in a member of this Agreement from the date of the granting of a note of diplomatic notes through correspondence, again the official diplomatic correspondence. So if the Agreement is ratified more quickly, it will come into force. Everything else stands.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u229	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u230	They're all going to the '0' to go to the '0' customs. Yeah, 2007. I didn't even correct you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u231	For a stenogram, name and name only.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u232	Zada Muminović is a representative of the foreign trade ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u233	Great. Thank you. Thank you. I mean, does anyone have a call for a hearing? Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u234	Dear President, dear colleagues, I want to say some things in principle, because we have a few of these contracts down there and I'm not answering everything I'm going to say this time. In fact, I don't understand who it is in this country who's supposed to start an initiative so that this country doesn't once be in a subordinate position in international relations as it is so far. Here we are making contracts, ratifying them, adopting them, and no one seems to me, I may be mistaken, no one in this country from the responsible people until now, from the Council of Ministers, from the Presidency has adequately represented the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the visa regime. I also set up the House of Representatives in the last meeting. It's completely unclear to me. No Niko explained it to me in the meantime since then. I'll do it here again. Last year, in the House of Representatives, we had this ratification of the contract with Slovenia. It was accepted in Parliament. I was speaking then and I voted against ratification. And here's why. We are witnessing that Slovenia is investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina 100 million marks. How and in what way. We know it's not because he loves us too much, but because he has his own interests. Let him have his own interest. It's clear to me that Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be closed and no one can be locked up today to live alone. But in that game, our businessmen remain deprived of equality. I would say denied human rights at European and world level. 48 Why can businesspeople in Slovenia or Europe come here uninterrupted and our businessmen have to wait for a visa in Slovenia for days? I really think it is the vital national interest of every nation and every citizen in this country to discuss the visa regime via the High Representative of Mr. Eždaun and the Council of Europe and anywhere in the world, to bring once again the citizen of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, seemingly in an equal position. We know that our economy is not so strong that we are equal to them in the West, but do not make it impossible for us yet to make it difficult for our businessmen simply, simply cannot travel freely and freely make contracts. I know people who have real traffic a million, two or five million marks, produce people. They can't go to Slovenia, they lose days and days until they can go to Slovenia. That's why I'm here initiating from this place to give this country the assignment, this home to give to our most responsible structures in the country of the Presidency, by the Council of Ministers, to simply start this issue from a dead end. Someone's gonna tell me if we're here, we don't determine us, they determine the others. Is there anything in the world where we can tell someone in the international community – stop people, so let's just say with arguments if there's a class of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina that can't be out there, and someone's going out anyway. I ask, please, that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are all brought into an equal position and that we too have a way out of Europe, not just Europe entering Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u235	I thank Mr. Brk. Is anyone else picking up? Here I would say two three sentences concerning what Mr. Brka is saying. I think this would be an opportunity, here to be the cause of Mr. Brk's exposure which is quite right in my court, I think Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually in a very invisible position otherwise, and this visa regime also makes it more difficult to communicate people and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the world. I think the solution would be and here I propose that it be our initiative to launch an initiative to open a debate in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament on the subject of the visa regime. Of course, there would be called the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, thinking of, of course, the president and the resolution minister of foreign affairs, the representative of the international community, through the OHR Office, so themselves the High Representative, Mr Eždaun and all other representatives of the international community that have been accredited in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the ambassadors, ambassadors of European countries and other countries from the world. I think it would really be very interesting and that it would be very interesting for the public, because there is no citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who is not interested in this issue. Because we literally, except for a couple of neighboring countries, can't go anywhere without a visa. I think it is a major restriction and a major restriction by those countries towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. And here, if you agree, I would suggest that we launch an initiative to open a paraliamentary debate on this subject, and when possible, some 49 preparations should be made, meaning getting familiar with this initiative by the second House of our Parliament, to meet all of these that I mentioned earlier, and to see when this is the appropriate time to organise such a session, i.e. a debate on this topic. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u236	Mr. Chairman, I join this initiative of yours and by supporting it, I would only take the opportunity to say that we can already take the first step at the scheduled meeting for the 5th, between the 5th and 10th of March between the representatives of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, so the College of both homes and the Committee on Foreign Policy of both homes, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Office of the Council of Europe in Sarajevo. So the meeting will need to be held somewhere between March 5th and 10th, and we could take advantage of that opportunity immediately to make first consultations and yet see one more thing there, and it is obvious that there are certain obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it can carry out. So if there is enough will, and I am convinced that in this house and in the second home of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, there is. Let's see what our obligations are that we need to do, to adapt our work programme for this year to those obligations, so that we can put our obligations in our line of work and thus speed up our work. So the Council of Ministers and both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly so that we can strengthen and reasonedly go ahead with those factors of the international community or bilaterally to ask for a change in this relationship that is absolutely burdening all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I especially want to say that he is really burdensome for people who do business, because it is really inadmissible that a Slovenian businessman can come to Bosnia and Herzegovina whenever he wants, no visas or problems, and that at the same time someone who wants to go to Slovenia to talk business should wait for a visa. Whether she's a long, short procedure, this, it still needs to go through one procedure. If we're doing business on both sides, then at least in that part we should try to even it out. In that sense, we support this initiative and I add that we should align our work programme for this year with this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u237	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else answering or we can end it. I would like to say that we agree to ratify the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey. Who's in? - Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously decided to give consent to ratify the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey. Let's get to the bottom of this. So to launch, we are launching an initiative to open a parliamentary debate on Bosnia and Herzegovina's visa regime, towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? - Unanimity. Thank you. 50 I agree that we adopted unanimously, in fact, a decision to launch an initiative to launch a parliamentary debate on the visa regime towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. We're moving on to 13 points of the agenda. It's Ad. 13. The free trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia, the proposing of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, again, is the same thing. I don't know if there's any more need to explain this together, explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u238	It's all the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u239	Mr. Čeniguć, please welcome on behalf of the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u240	The Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade Commission has considered this agreement and given support to this agreement for the reason we have already stated. We believe that this agreement should be supported and relations should be further developed, but not only politically but also economically with the Republic of Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u241	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone else to discuss? If not, I suggest we make a decision on granting consent to ratifying the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. Who's in? - Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously decided to give consent to ratify the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. We're moving to point 14. Ad. 14. The agreement on improving and reciprocal protection of investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain, the proposing Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, I propose, I call on the promoter, if he has an explanation. Is there a need, Mr. Grbić, do you have any? Okay, do the committees have anything to say? No, I don't. Okay. I propose that we make a decision on granting consent to ratifying the Agreement on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain. Who's in? Thank you. I find that we have unanimously made this decision. 51 Ad. 15. The agreement on improving and protecting investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic would again be the same as an explanation and. Does anyone need to discuss? There isn't. I suggest we make a decision on granting consent to ratify this agreement, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u242	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u243	We'll see what the document says.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u244	Come on, zado, what do you say? Come on, zado. Let's explain zado to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u245	Do I have to introduce myself again? Now, these agreements, by the way, come to you another agreement not after these with the Republic of Portugal and they have a really slightly different title, but they include the same kind of stuff inside and it's not the same as these agreements or free trade agreements before. So the free trade agreement is between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey and the second is on free trade between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. They're not even close. Yeah. The explanation is a little different, it's not the same matter. And the promotion agreements, I'm sorry, I just wanted to give you an extra explanation. As for reciprocal investment protection, it is included in each of these three agreements, only not in the title. Sometimes the contracting party asked for a title without that word reciprocal protection, but the reciprocal protection of investment in materials can be seen in addition to all contracts and all includes this reciprocal protection of investment, which means. You're right, sir, because the other side of the contract, let's just say he insists on being called that. Most equally protected investments are provided by both parties and the other parties, as stated in the contracts attached by you in the material. If there are any more questions, I can give you an additional explanation for these contracts. Otherwise, they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u246	I thank you for your clarifications, and I suggest you do. Is there anyone to discuss? There isn't. I propose that we make a decision to give consent to the agreement, to ratify the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and the Czech Republic. Who's in? - Unanimity. Thank you. Moving to 16th point 52.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u247	Only chairing if we can add one conclusion, suggest or give the presidency a suggestion that when it concludes the following contracts to make sure that it is reciprocal in the title, because it is very important [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u248	Okay. Mr. Spasojević, if you will, for the pay phone and then enter the stenogram so that we have it and we will vote on the conclusion. Why not?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u249	Well, I don't know if we're going to have any use for what I'm going to suggest, but I think this word is very important, and that's why I just asked this colleague if this means that these two agreements are different, but she explained that the essence is the same, only she doesn't have a title. But I suggest that we give as a suggestion to the Presidency, and that is, these other negotiators who sign these contracts that necessarily the title says it's a reciprocal protection, so we sort of provide ourselves through the title and through everything else, because in case there's a dispute there, the lawyers would break down whether it's reciprocal or not, it's not in the title, it's not like this, etc. So if it makes sense what I suggested, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u250	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Muminović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u251	I'm sorry. This is my fault. I should have added another important piece of information. Otherwise, contracts for promotion and protection of investment are concluded.It is common practice, international practice to conclude between the two contract parties based on the procedure, legal procedure in each of the countries. In our state, Bosnia and Herzegovina, our standard draft agreement has passed the Council of Ministers procedure and the Presidency procedure prescribed by the Law on the conclusion and conclusion and international agreements. The draft that went through that procedure has no reciprocal investment protection title, but it's all in content. So the one where there isn't, it's based on our draft negotiated in the title. The Czech Republic has been negotiated on the basis of our draft and that is our title, and the content is included again I must repeat it is reciprocal investment protection, because there is no, there is no reciprocal investment protection. In our draft, it doesn't mean they're wrong, it's just in the title.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u252	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Grbić. This way, Ante.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u253	There's one principle that doesn't matter what it's called, it's content. Therefore, it does not change things at all and that there is and that there is no, if there are in the contractual clauses, reciprocity exists with the fact that if it is already going by 53, the conclusion is made specifically that it is then insisted that it be included in the content of the contract, i.e. the inter-contractual clauses of that reciprocal clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u254	I thank Mr. Grbić. I think we can work this out in a way that we can vote first on consent, and then we'll get this conclusion. It's usually the way we go. So we always go before the document, then. I propose that we make a decision on granting consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Portugal on the mutual improvement and protection of investments, the proposing presidency. We're done with the Czech Republic, no, we're not going to the 16th.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u255	It was the Czech Republic, now it's Portugal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u256	It was the Czech Republic. ..on mutual improvement and protection of investment. Who's in? For Portugal? - Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted a decision to give consent to ratify this document. Now, here's the conclusion from Mr. Spasojević. I think we can. Here you go, Mr. Filipović. Don't go against Zoran.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u257	I would ask if we could refrain from this proposal to suggest to the Presidency that in a difficult, difficult, procedural matter, some kind of contract will be concluded and that it will give it a title. You see the contracts are like a random, and if it's good, then it takes a long time, if there's love, then it takes a long time. The contract is the will of two parties. And if the two parties agree that the title is such as the form in the contract, and the content is a very important thing and in content there is what the fellow representative mentioned, then it is not slow but. But it would be very unfortunate for us to propose to the Presidency that they negotiate and that the act will bear the title. I mean, I'm not gonna vote for something like that, and I'd like to ask my colleague that our conclusion doesn't go towards the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u258	I thank Mr Filipović and I will be. Look, I'll be like this, watch out. Every idea, initiative and proposal is given for a statement. We can only invite Mr. Spasojević to give up. If he doesn't insist, we'll plead. All right, then. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u259	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u260	I think we understand everything. I still keep it here that Mr. Spasojević is right. So he suggests, we'll get to the bottom of it. It means that I am making a statement of the proposal, which means that Mr Spasojević's conclusion is that we suggest to the Presidency or if the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Trade, that when making international contracts, the titles of those contracts are unified, if they treat one substance. So there are no different titles and they have the same content, or the same matter to treat. [[Common discussion]] Well, let's write it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u262	Blagoviæ, de bolan Blagojević, give it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u263	Okay. I thank Mr. Spasojević, but I was ready to support his proposal, regardless of what he is, because the representative is a representative, he is always right. I think that's how we should set things up. No, no. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Point 17. Ad. 17. Protocol on combating illegal parts against the security of permanent platforms located in the Epicontinental Belt of Rome, 10 March 1998, Proposer of the BiH Presidency I don't think we have here, is simply what obliges us to sign to be signatories. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u264	Gentlemen, please don't be mad at me. The text of this Agreement shows that a number of countries have signed this Agreement. Even there in one place is mentioned 6-7 languages in which this agreement is located and is talked about so-called. Member States of the Agreement. However, the promoter did not provide, and the text of the agreement itself does not mention the signatories. It would be the order, it would really be the turn of information that in the future, therefore, Parliament gets at least information on which countries are signatories of a document that we become signatories. I'm sorry, maybe it's a little bit of a fluke, but I don't think it is, because let's not go in now, what's the content of all that. It seems to me to be true for both the first and the second, so point 17 and point 18. There, so much for me. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u265	I thank Mr. Čengić. I think this is a good idea, because it could simply be as part of an explanation as far as the state has already signed such a document. With this suggestion from Mr. Čengić, can we approach a statement on the decision to give consent to ratify this protocol? Who's in? Unanimity. I thank and realize that we unanimously made a decision on granting consent to ratifying the Protocol on combating illegal acts against the security of permanent platforms located in the eth-continental belt, signed in March '88. A year. Ad.18. The Convention on the Suppression of illegal acts against the security of maritime navigation of Rome on March 10, '88. So, as it's signed, it is. Constitutional law. You said before the answer. So there's nothing special about it. Okay. It's not about commissions. It's about commissions. As an explanation or information along the lines. I suggest we make a decision on granting consent to ratifying the Convention on the Prevention of Irregular Works against the Safety of Maritime Navigation, signed in Rome on 10 March 1998. Who's in? Unanimity. I thank and realize that we have made a unanimous decision on granting consent to ratifying the Convention on combating illegal acts against the security of navigation, the maritime voyage of Rome on 10 March '88. A year. Ad.19. The credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH, the financing and reconstruction of the grant system for the municipality of Prnjavor, the proposing BiH Presidency, we have here, however, will be dogish. The document is all to itself. I think the commissions were considering this. Is there any need to explain? This is very good, for God's sakes to be more like this. Who's in? Unanimously all 14 is in favour. I regret and realize that we unanimously made a decision to give consent to ratify the credit agreement as stated. Let's go to the next one. Ad.20. Credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH financing the reconstruction of the water supply system for the Municipality of Olova, Proposer of the BiH Presidency Who is for? All 15 unanimous. I thank you and I realize that we're unanimous with each other. I agree that we have unanimously reached a decision on granting consent to ratify the said credit agreement. 56 Ad. 21. The credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH on funding and reconstruction of the water supply system for the municipality of Zepce, Proposer of the Pedestrianity of BiH, again the same thing. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously reached a decision to give consent to ratify the credit agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and BiH to finance and reconstruct the water supply system for the municipality of Zepce, the proposing BiH Presidency. Ad.22. A proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of parliamentary procedure under the proposed laws and other materials of the previous convocation We have received this document. I'm opening a debate. I call on the representatives or presidents of the committee, if they have any indication. Here's a suggestion from my colleague, Mr. Čengić, I'll take two or three sentences on our conclusion. In fact, it says everything here, but we are obliged to make this conclusion, meaning, about our relationship, or work, or the acceptance of certain materials, which are at a certain level in the procedure for making. We opted for a solution as it says here, and I'll comment on it very briefly. We have managed with one idea to respect the present continuity and accept it. However, yes, we take for granted the right as a House so that we can participate actively in all the materials that come before us and return them to a vase in which they can be affected by the amendment. This is the point. The second everything says here and here we went one step, let's say forward in terms of our powers, means returning one step to some documents, that we can act on them in an amendment to the same conclusion that treats the same area, the same problem from the House of Representatives. I think this is a good solution and we need to make this conclusion. I think this is the right thing to do. So, we're not holding anything back, we're going to argue, but we're putting everything into phase so we can change our action. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u266	So, Mr. Chairman, in all of this proposal, I would only ask if it is possible for you to send us a list of everything you're talking about in the shortest possible time. What exactly does that mean now? We have no idea now, first of all, that what's left of what needs to be done now is to include in the work plan for this year, by some priority, and I think that one of the elements for priority is degree or degree of readiness,...to get the law as soon as possible. Of course, it's not the only one, but one.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u267	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Secretary Tomić wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u268	I'd just like to tell you that in the materials you received when it was a constitutive session, there was one bigger letter in which the laws that passed 57 of a certain parliamentary procedure were written. Among those laws are two laws that have passed only the commission phase, the first commission phase, where they are on the Constitutional First Commission from the aspect of constitutionality and those two laws so that they do not go back to the Constitutional and Legal Commission to continue the procedure as a competent commission, which is again the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and we have five laws alone, of which there have been four laws that have not been amended, which have passed the first reading and the fifth law, which have been sent to you with the amendments in place. And, on those five laws, only the envoys could act as ambassadors. So it's not more material at all, and you have it in that letter that we delivered to you with all the materials. There are three other materials, I'm sorry, four of whom are envoys from the previous assembly, they can't go unless someone takes them over. You know. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u269	I thank Mr. Tomić. I would like to make clear the proposal for a conclusion on the continuation of the parliamentary procedure under the prescribing of the laws and other materials contained in the previous call. Who's in? Unanimity. I thank you all. I understand we're unanimous. Here you go, sir. Here's Mr. Milojević answering exactly that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u270	So, Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, we've all seen what it looks like, what the design of this form on the status of MPs or delegates is like, here we've been informed that our colleagues in the House of Representatives have adopted one conclusion. I would, therefore, about simplifying that pattern, I would, if you don't mind reading those three sentences which are the contents of the conclusion, which they adopted on January 13th o.g. at his 7th session. So, it says here, MPs of the BiH Parliament Assembly's House of Representatives are fully committed to respecting the law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. That's the first conclusion. Second, the House of Representatives directs the strongest protest to the BiH Electoral Commission on the breadth of the pattern content. Third, it is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to ensure, in co-operation with the BiH Election Commission, that such a pattern is made up that will contain what is needed to implement the law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. I suggest that our conclusions be identical to that of the House of Commons only instead of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-02-25-0.u271	We all agree. Who's in? Unanimity. I thank you all. This would have exhausted the agenda. I thank you all for your cooperation. We worked 6-7 hours, but we were, here and effective. The session was finished at 5:30.
