ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7494	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 9th session of the Representative's House of the Parlmentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of today's session, I would like to congratulate all Muslims on the new 1424th Hijret year. Today's session is scheduled for this day with a desire to join these two sessions, because a regular session as you know is scheduled for tomorrow's 5th so that we have this one today, I would say, a special or thematic session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present, chairman and members of the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the UN Mission in BiH, and, I apologize if I did not mention someone and did not welcome them, I welcome all others present, of course, and media representatives. I find that 39 of the 42 MPs attend today's session. In fact, we have 41 MPs at this time, because Mr. Žigić Izet has suspended his term of office at the moment of elections for the Minister of the Federation of BiH, and we did not get a new MP from the Election Commission in this house and we could not get it, because only tomorrow, at tomorrow's session, we should also determine the formal termination of Mr. Žigić's mandate. So, of the 41 MPs currently numbered at the Parlmentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, 39 are present today. Mr. Duraković who is absent from BiH, Mr. Duraković Nijaz and Mr. Muratović Hasan, who needs every moment to join us here. He is preparing to travel outside BiH on an official trip to the presidency of our parliamentary delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, so we have conditions for full work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, as you know at the last session of this house, we have reached a decision on the termination of the term of office of Ambassador Niki Lozančić, because of the election in the executive office, at the position of the president of the Federation of BiH. 2 The BiH Election Commission has informed us that instead of Mr Lozančić's mandate, she has assigned from the election unit to Mr Ivo Miro Jović, as the next qualified candidate from the HDZ Democratics list, so I suggest that before the debate, before the very essence of today's session, Mr Jović give a solemn statement, and I invite him to come to this speaker, in order to make him a full member of this high house. Please stand up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7495	I declare that I will knowingly perform my duties and those entrusted to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7496	I commit myself consciously to be held accountable to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7497	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7498	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7499	Full implementation of the General Criminal Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7500	In full implementation of the General Criminal Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7501	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7502	Protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7503	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7504	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7505	Mr Jović, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in my personal name, I would like to give you my sincere congratulations on this very solemn statement, and I wish you a lot of success in the work of MPs, i.e. MPs in the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7506	Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7507	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you know this is a special session, a specific session. We were unable to call it by the Rules of Procedure neither extraordinary nor special, but she did, in fact we had to call her according to the Rules of Procedure, because with us the Rules of Procedure do not know any special or extraordinary sessions, so, at the 9th session of the House of Representatives, but only with one item of the agenda. We agreed from about 45 days ago to hold this session and I, without discussing the agenda, declare today's session agenda, because this is a thematic session, a security situation in BiH, and I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terizić, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7508	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that, as most of you with regret, I must conclude that this session, as it is imagined in its original request of 15 members of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives, is not prepared in the way it suits this home and is not prepared as it should be the obligation of all executive authorities in BiH when they are addressed by this high house. You know that in early January, we had a request to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because at the time we had not yet appointed a Council of Ministers of 15 MPs of this House to prepare a debate on the political and security situation in BiH. This was offered by the unfavorable events at the time, according to returnees in certain areas of BiH, and we are thinking about how to meet the demands of the House of Representatives, we have come to the conclusion that, however, the request of MPs is the least said, too wide. Too broadly set because the political security situation in any space involves one huge number of data, including a large number of institutions of one state, which monitor all segments of life and work in that country, so that the political and security situation should have a report and competent ministries of internal affairs and, say, those who conduct elections on the situation in that segment, those who deal with living standards, those who deal with privatisation, those who deal with all other segments. That's why I chose that, however, this political moment in our request for entity governments and Brcko District, because I think it was the only way we could get any information, since we didn't have the Ministry Act, we only had the Council of Ministers Act, which did not give in power either to the Council of Ministers or to the chairman of any gathering of information. So, I've defined myself to ask the entity governments and Brcko District for information on the security situation, to come up with that original, original idea to talk a little bit and take a look at what a security situation is, especially people who are in the turn of returnees, people who fall into order so-called. minority peoples in individual areas of BiH, etc. On my request, I got three information. With the College of the Assembly, since we've had a lot of pressure from the College of the Assembly to go with this extraordinary session as soon as possible. The deadlines have been delayed several times. On my request, I received three information, and I wanted to hold an extraordinary session of the Council ofministers, and I think there was an opportunity for the corresponding programme of this House and the Council of Ministers at their extraordinary session to discuss such an important matter, to take views and recommend certain conclusions to this home. 4 However, when I received three informations, reading them, I realized that two of the opportunities were in that context for which they were sought. However, from the RS government, the Prime Vlada, dr Mikerević, I received information about some security and other aspects of the movement and residence of foreigners with a view to illegal migration and human trafficking. Surely, if this topic were also a security situation, however, it is only one segment of the security situation and I decided not to call the Council of Ministers, because we would come to a situation where then the Council of Ministers comes to this house with their information and that our session would, in fact, muffle and amneste the relationship on this issue of the RS government towards the chairman and indirectly towards this home. I must stress that the law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration has not yet come into force, but also these materials and this topic speaks of the Council of Ministers having done a great deal when it was able to comply with such a law and both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, when they were able to confirm it. The BiH state, the Council of Ministers Act, which was declared by the High Representative, won the Ministry of Security. This Ministry of Security is certainly the most important address for the debate on the topics launched at this home. In this law, the vijeć of Eministers has given responsibility to the Ministry of Security to collect and use data from BiH's security efforts and to organise the alignment of entity ministries, internal affairs and Brcko BiH District in the pursuit of security tasks in BiH's interest. When the law comes into force, then the Council of Ministers, through its Ministry of Security, will certainly have the authority that the Security Minister with entity governments, ministries and government and the Ministry of Brcko District, will be able to discuss this issue in due course and be responsible for the materials it receives. I ask you that, despite the situation in which we are in today's situation to be sure, without exaggerating the most important in BiH, given that the returnees' attacks are taking place in the meantime, today we are discussing that this House will take certain positions, which, together with, together with, possibly a subsequent request from the Ministry of Security for additional information and, as part of today's debate, will allow the Council of Ministers to analyse the situation and propose to this home the conclusions which will then be binding the Council of Ministers through the resolution ministries, but also all other institutions in BiH. I must admit that, given the circumstances, through MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I have come up with information on the security of returnees and persons of non-Serb nationality and the activities of the RS Ministry of Interior in response to the parliamentary question of the president of the SDA Club Mr Tarik Sadović. That information, regardless of its content, is, in principle, information that had to be found on, to be delivered to the Council of Ministers in order to be able to come forward with one summary and joint information. Let me remind you that the information we have received means information about certain security and other aspects of the movement and residence of foreigners with regard to illegal migration and human trafficking is written 13th of October. and information for the National Assembly of the RS by the same ministry was written on 12.02. It is obvious that the RS government and the resolution ministry wanted this to send a message to the chairman who requested the material and representatives of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who asked the chairman for that information. I think that in today's debate we should take certain views and according to that fact and, I really want to say that the Council of Ministers, absolutely, 5 is on the point that this is a problem that needs to be treated by the Council of Ministers, that we have to use everything we have under the law to come to fruition with entity governments and the Government of the Brcko District to, in a position that we have a much better security situation. I hope that some of today's conclusions, which will help the Council of Ministers to work in this direction in the future, will help us take over the moment when the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration is officially announced to take over all of our constitutional and legal powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7509	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just want to point out a few facts to you and let you know what the Extended College of this House concluded last night at its session. As you know, this session was called upon at the request of 15 MPs of this house, which was submitted at the 6th session on 3 January 2003, and the direct cause of the application was a crime against the Anđelić family in the village of Kostanica near Konjica. Since there were crimes before and after, murders and attacks on the lives and assets of the returnees, and one took place several days ago in Mostar, we appreciated that the debate on the security situation in BiH, therefore, should have some initial material to serve as the basis for the debate. Therefore, by letter dated 9 January 2003, we informed the Council of Ministers of the request of MEPs for this thematic session and requested information on the security situation. Since then, we have held several meetings of the College, and at all these sessions, Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who responded neatly to our call and informed us of the problems the Council of Ministers has in making this information, so that on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives, I can therefore confirm these allegations of which Mr. Terzić spoke. We had one session on January 23rd, and we agreed then that we could have a meeting of the House of Representatives on this topic with information on February 28th, and then it was scheduled for last Friday. However, until then, we were not in a position to have the relevant information, so after receiving this information from the Council of Ministers, which I delivered to you, we decided to hold this session today a day before the regular session, which, as you know, was scheduled for tomorrow, for the 5th, because it was no longer worth holding regular sessions and not having a mandatory topic decided before, practically on January 3, 2003. At last night's session of the Extended College of the House of Representatives were attended by representatives of all political parties clubs except one club, one mixed club. At that session, we agreed that today we should wrap up the debate on the security situation in BiH, that Parliament should say what it thinks about the security situation in BiH, or the House of Representatives, and propose appropriate measures to improve the situation, that is, improve it. We agreed to carry out a constructive debate today, 6 I say with the basic goal of giving our contribution to improving and improving the security situation in BiH. We agreed that representatives of political parties' clubs first discuss and then, of course, everyone who wants to. Afterwards, they would take a short break and try to make a proposal for conclusions at the Expansive College, after which they would continue to work in this home at the tide and try to adopt those conclusions, our conclusions and the views of this home on the security situation in BiH. It is certain that our views will also help the authorities of the executive authority, primarily the Council of Ministers and entity governments to take measures to improve, or improve, the security situation in BiH. Under the deal, I call on the party's representative of the Party for BiH to address parliament on this side. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word. Let the representative of the Serbian Democratic Party Club be prepared. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7510	I welcome all those present, I will indeed try, on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club, to say what is most important for us, trying to use time rationally. So I won't repeat why we called the session. I'm not going to repeat what we've gotten from what we've been looking for, you've seen. Unfortunately, the chairman of the Council of Ministers assured us of what we saw, and he did not tell us whether the Council of Ministers tried to correct or correct communication with entity authorities and the Brcko District the quality of information. Obviously, even if it was done, there was no success. I will just remind myself that when it comes to the content of today's session, we have concluded that, within this session, we are treating the report on the parliamentary investigation carried out in connection with the discovery of illegal weapons storage in Mostar. I hope it stays as a conclusion. So, let me remind all of us here that we have a deal. So I'm just going to talk about what we're trying to refer to as measures to overcome the situation, which has been established in individual reports and I can immediately say that this is absolutely not enough and that in some way is a missing topic. All these measures proposed by entity institutions, i.e. internal affairs authorities, are the usual measures to go with the annual report. We have, in practice, received annual reports on the work of entity ministries in certain areas and they completely ignore the fact that in BiH there are drastic violations of human rights on national and religious grounds, that in BiH there are happening to say and not typical occurrences of crime, such as hiding large quantities of weapons, etc. The least said is that current authorities sort of local, entity, etc. they do not understand the essence and sources of these phenomena, which, in practice, leads to, in a way and tolerance and not understanding, not understanding the dimensions of these phenomena. I have had the opportunity to, in these 40 days since we agreed to discuss this key issue for the future of BiH to attend some of the gatherings organised by NGOs and I must tell you that their evaluations are completely different from the evaluations we received from the entity interior ministries and Brcko District. They are essentially different in the following way. These reports, which we officially have today, are about statistics, and reports from NGOs and the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights and Freedoms in 2001, warn and give alarming findings, which indicate that the level of security in BiH, especially when it comes to returnees, is almost at the level of 2003 and these institutions, respectively, are asking for the voice of returnees on these things. They express mistrust in the 7th police, the judiciary, warn of the fact that war criminals are still at large and that their movements encourage human rights violations, etc. All this suggests that, practically, the issue of security in BiH is also a political issue. A political issue in the sense that political goals, individual political options, which went towards ethnically clean territories, preventing return, institution building and organised democratic society are still in place. People and perpetrators, etc. in some ways they are encouraged and think that there is still such a policy on the scene and that there is a chance of success. So when a man analyzes all this, at the House of Representatives is an extremely large obligation, because we introduced this topic today into the House of Representatives and we should have introduced it and it must remain present, but it is very important how to end the debate on this whole. We think that, above all, we must face the fact and conclude that there are drastic human rights violations in BiH, which leads to the uncertainty of life in certain parts of BiH, BiH in general, and that there is some way to live in fear. Next, we have to do it here, if we agree that that's how it is to face that fact and to realize. Furthermore, we must conclude and accept that the security issue is an extremely important issue, perhaps a key issue for the future of BiH, as it is directly linked to the possibility of BiH entering European integration for development, for the businessless regime, etc. I believe that there will be talk of it later, but the basic thing is that we are obliged to ensure the safe life of our people. So we must also agree to the security issue in BiH, etc. It is not a matter of statistics but also of politics and that it is the result of the political objectives of the sick, that this is the result of the concept of national clean territories and the result of national frustration driven by individual political options. I think it is important and we propose to send a strong message to the public that these concepts have failed and that no one in the civilized world will accept or support them and that this assembly and all levels of government in BiH must do so. The parliament should be asked by the Council of Ministers for the final document of security policy to appear in the parliamentary procedure, two years have passed as we expect the document. Defence policy adopted, security policy not yet. Furthermore, it should be asked by the Council of Ministers to urgently, in co-operation with entity authorities, analyse the ability and readiness of internal affairs institutions, the State Border Service, the Customs Service, Interpol and all others affecting the security of their capacity and capacity. Furthermore, I think we need to establish serious co-operation with NGOs. To encourage and support them and to listen to their opinions on these issues and ultimately, I think that the international community, in a way, has ignored the area of human rights and freedoms in favour of reforming economic and judicial reforms and should call on them, because there is reason to continue to deal with and help build and quality in this area. Here's so much to start with when it comes to Party for BiH MPs' club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7511	I thank Mr. Belkić. Rijeka has a representative of the SDS Club Mr Milioš Jovanović. Get a representative of the SNSD Club ready. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7512	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that these materials that we have received are only one small segment that affects and can affect the security situation in BiH. I will try to give someone my opinion on what it is that makes the situation worse, the security situation in BiH. Whether the violation and abuse of the Dayton Peace Agreement affects the deterioration of the situation in BiH. Especially from those who are committed to guarding and implementing it, and I fear that by disrespecting the Dayton Agreement, we are making the situation worse, the security situation in BiH, which can lead us back to new misunderstandings and new conflicts. I also think that the poor economic situation in BiH can produce social unrest in broader proportions, especially given that those who were in power and lost power are trying to hide the facts of their own responsibility for the existing situation with the ultimate goal of destabilising authorities and destroying legal institutions. Whether over-authorisation of the international factor and high representative also affects the deterioration of the security situation in BiH. The introduction of constitutional solutions and laws that can hardly be applied in our terms. I think it is clear to every BiH citizen that in BiH, the international community decides on everything and bears no responsibility. It's the responsibility of transferring to domestic politicians. Domestic politicians can't do anything without the blessing of the high representative and international financial institutions, and I think it's one of the chains in which one decides and the other responds, and for this state the consequences are most borne by the citizens of BiH. Whether the violent behaviour of SFOR units also negatively affects the deterioration of the security situation in BiH. Is it breaking into houses, beating people up in gun-gathering, the latest example that took place in Prijedor beating up Milorad Bilbija and others, unauthorized polling among citizens, provoking, scaring citizens, which certainly causes dissatisfaction with SFOR units, which certainly makes the security situation worse in BiH worse? Do the latest problems of the CIPS project also worsen the situation in BiH? Who has the right to increase or change the price of the ID card and to take maybe ten million from the citizens of BiH? Is tomorrow someone going to tell us the price of milk and the price of cheese will be so great for you? Does the establishment of the BiH Court's headquarters also affect the deterioration of the security situation in BiH? And also very often our unmeasured and flammable statements and speeches also affect the deterioration of the situation in BiH. In my opinion, all the things that we need to take care of and about, eventually, the conclusions that we're about to adopt, this should get into those conclusions. Also, I want to inform you that today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is also meeting, which is currently discussing the security of returnees in RS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7513	I thank Mr. Jovanović. The river has a representative of the SNSD Club Mr. Nikola Kragulj. Get a representative of the PDP Club ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7514	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, gentlemen of the chairmanship, allow only a few of your views of today's debate. We think that, regardless of what for this one, this serious 9 topic is practically missed material and that we can learn more about certain facts and elements of the security situation in BiH than from this material, that it still makes sense to discuss today, because I don't think there is anyone in this country who cares about the security situation of his, his property and all the citizens in BiH who is well-intentioned. Normally, this condition certainly has its own mass of causes, and I think that today, first of all, it is necessary that here in this House of Representatives, preferably as much as possible, we look at the causes of all aspects, which is why today, after seven years of the conflict situation, we have come back into the situation that we have certain consequences that arise in conflict situations of murder and in other criminal acts on a national basis. I think a few aspects should be considered. The first that international impatience is still present in many heads, in many chapters this issue is not overcome, the second that is very important in these times, which is that some politicians and leaders are often, in their own statements, raising and heating national tensions, fighting in this way for the identity, or status of their nationality, but these themselves produce tensions and causing the same kinds of tensions among others in these areas, because we know that we are in a very complex situation and that we have to take care of it. The third aspect is, for sure, the economic and social status and the lack of perspective with a special accent, which should be taken into account here, which is unemployment. These are the aspects that should most certainly be taken into account today in the debate, where we need to be on these issues as clear as possible in order to, in general, establish certain measures, in order to be able to take certain activities to stabilise both the political and security situation. That, surely, if it continues like this, these controversial phenomena will have to be taken care of, but if this trend continues, then there will certainly be a threat and strengthening of the threat and security of these areas, which we certainly do not need, first of all, from the aspect of further reforms on the economic plan, from the aspect of creating a favourable environment for BiH's development and faster employment and overcoming the current very difficult economic and social situation. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7515	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Here you go. You see, Mrs Đurković was present last night at a session of the Extended College and on that principle, and here I have now received information that there is no club, but here she is already behind the pay phone, so we will not deny the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7516	Well, well, that's what Mr. Kunić asked me to go there for him.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7517	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7518	We have addressed the Council of Ministers in due time to send us a report on the security situation in BiH. We have been waiting for the Council of Ministers to send us three reports coming from the entity interior ministries and Brcko District. They are who they are. The Federation's first report, in fact, is more likely to be found at the Federation of BiH's assembly analysis. 10 The second report is similar here, because according to the Constitution, which is the authority of the BiH State, the 3rd point (f) is a good policy and regulation for immigration, refugees and asylum. Therefore, the RS ministry has made a report that is currently relevant, whether it is good or not, but concerns, precisely, this segment, which belongs to it under the Constitution. The Ministry of Security at the state level is not yet in office and, of course, the Council of Ministers has sent us just as it stands, as these subjects have sent us for analysis. Actually, we're having a discussion here. It would be logical to wait for the Federation Assembly to discuss its report, wait for today's debate in the RS Assembly, get these reports to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security, to produce an honest analytical report and to discuss it here. It seems to me that would be a logical path. Today we can refer to these reports that are diverse, but we couldn't, I ask other colleagues not to refer to reports that we, as a whole, don't have here, say reports of NGOs, etc. Because then if I don't have that report and someone says I have this report so I can figure it out, then I don't think it's right and it's not right that Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers says two types of information came from the RS, one is for need and one's there, it's quite right by my understanding that one kind of information goes here because it belongs to us, or the Council of Ministers that part, that segment and something else belongs to entity governments. That's what I can say. The instructions would therefore be that we have one more serious approach when it comes to the authority of our institutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7519	I thank Mrs. Đurković. The apparition that we just heard from these benches that there isn't this club is, indeed, accurate. However, I gave Mrs. Đurković my word because last night she was regularly present at the General College session and therefore, the word was given, so it is possible that it is my fault too. And anyway, it's not a mistake. Let it be heard at the pay phone what anyone thinks. I invite a representative of the Mixed Club, in which they are, it is now in order that I see from the following clubs Mr Lozančić, Altić and Avdić. Mr. Sed Avdić to take his word for it. Get a representative of the Mixed Club DNZ, BOSS and Mr. Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7520	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests of the Council of Ministers, I, too, want to point out a fundamental premise immediately to state that this is BiH is a unique security space and so should be observed. If that's how we're being watched, then we should have gotten information on the security situation in BiH, and we don't have that information today. Why we don't have, because we simply can't consider that information three individual information that came from Brcko District, RS and the Federation of BiH. So these documents, which have different methodologies of unequal content, objectives and extensive statistics that cloud opinion and do not allow for the conclusion of something special from these three documents, which means, in our opinion, that the documents should be an analytical citadel, that they are not a simple collection of these three reports, and that in this context, it would be good for the Council of Ministers, and perhaps not waiting in full for the Ministry of Security in BiH to simply offer full information on the security situation in BiH, and it can consult and obtain information from a number of subjects and also use these three as basic information for one aggregated information at BiH level. That would be a good move. BH Parliament has no relations, simply, directly with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Federation or, simply the Brcko District, rather than having a relationship with the 11 Council of Ministers as the executive bodies of its instrument, conditionally spoken through which it communicates with others, and that is quite clear, which means that we support largely in the whole of the Council of Ministers, it can be said that the presentation of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers on this one systemic approach, simple information on security policy and security at the level of BiH. Which means that Parliament is, however, the largest institution of legislative authority. He's modeling politics. He's responsible for the citizens. This is a special House of Representatives and, in this context, it is certain that it is necessary that it should be pointed out right now and this is the BH Parliament, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples must in continuity be awake, conditionally said, and supervise and take care of the security situation, i.e. security policy in BiH, and it is necessary to highlight this and simply be a permanent permanent form of security care and security care in BiH. The illustrations are doing this, just to illustrate, that there are a lot of interesting data that can be analyzed that are quite interesting. This year, he said, the general crime in the Federation was and numbered 19.391 crimes, which means among the perpetrators there are 3,376 returnees, which is more than 24.6% compared to 2001, and what is particularly responsible is 1,954 are minors who are more by 20.3% compared to last year, or 2001, and are named as perpetrators of the most serious crimes of murder, rape, rape, and so on. Is this really such dramatic data, the deterioration of the security situation in both the Federation and the RS and Brcko District not worth a complete analytical document, an analytical approach? Us, just this statistic can be partly confusing. Statistical indicators only function as a single whole analytical document, which deals with the causes leading to this deterioration of the security situation in BiH. So the causes are important to look at this BH Parlment and cors, simple legal projects, resolutions, interpretations and everything else, are simply trying to remove. Also 10% has increased the number of crimes committed by the killings, and that is also the reason for further care in the entire BiH area. So I suggest the following: 1. The continued concern of the BH Parliament of the House of Representatives, simple and surveillance of the security situation in BiH, to become an integral part of the policy and simple management and creation of the work of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2. Yes, simply, let us face responsibility, efficiency and judicial and prosecutorial functions in BiH 3. Police trained in international standards of the IPTF, the European Community, etc. It is objectively trained to deal with organised crime and all of this as a result of the report, but objectively personal incomes that are alarmingly low dimming and demoting these people, simply because it has put high levels and risks and dangers on the street, which means I maintain a proposal that equates illustrations are done by the personal incomes of the State Border Service and Police in BiH and that the material position is seen, especially in the RS and the Federation and the Brcko District, and in this context, try simply to train to end materially technical means and simply to see the possibility of personal incomes, i.e. increasing personal income and equating with the State Border Service. 4. I also propose that the Council of Ministers, by the logic of things, take over the implementation of inter-entity criminal law in BiH, harmonisation and simple concerns about the implementation of criminal law between the two entities and the Brcko District. Once again, BiH is a unique security space. It's hard to share. It simply must be observed in a uniform manner and in this context harmonize the criminal law of entities and bring them into line with the signed international 12 conventions against organised crime. It is sad to ratify, adopt and not adapt or harmonize our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7521	I thank Mr Avdić, especially thanks for the concrete suggestions that can serve all those in charge of these matters as good examples. Representative of the next mixed club Mr. Đedović. Get a representative of the SDP Club ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7522	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like before Mr Mladen Potočnik and our club to direct a protest concerning this name to the chairman, he is here in front of the People's Party working for a improvement and it is constantly being carried out in the current course of work.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7523	If it's all my fault, then I did well. I apologize to the gentleman, indeed, he warned me that I should do so, but then I will warn these services of my own. This is what the Mixed Club of DNZ, the BOSS, the HDU Economic Block for the better, and then I decided not to read it, because I couldn't remember what to read from this three, so then I said Mr. Potočnik, I got along, I was less wrong than I read everything. I apologize to him. Please fix this here so I can mark the club properly in the future. Fix it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7524	As for the materials we have received and the topics to discuss, I would like to say in front of the Club: First of all, none of this material is sent to the Council of Ministers or to this House. What am I documenting? The first sentence in the Federal MUP report begins with the word, namely, the Federation government is, etc. There's no text in that sentence anywhere. I think it's absurd and apparently this material was written for something else. About the report from RS, I don't think I have a word. What my colleague was saying, I understand, however, we have here concluded as much as I remember that we are talking about the security situation from the aspect of the recovery of people and incidents that happen on all sides and here we should get the taxed number. What happened, what caused it, what were the consequences and what he did not do to repeat such a thing. We don't have it here. Instead, we have a type rating number, a number, some, a lot more, less anyone based on it can conclude anything relevant. Anyone on this basis can discuss anything relevant. We can get into a position as we've already had the opportunity to hear, someone would discuss the causes, consider them a fundamental problem, others would talk about the consequences, consider them a fundamental problemomitd. The area we wanted to talk about, at least that's how I figured it out by my colleagues in front of the club, which is a question of return security, we have a report from the Federation Government that says that the number of incidents compared to returnees is somewhat smaller than 13 over the past period. It's about the same as the wording from the Brcko District. On the basis of this, I propose to the club, just listening to the opening statement of the Council of Ministers, if we have waited until now to wait until the Ministry of Security begins work. To get the Department of Security to prescribe the criteria, based on which we need to get that information. If we can get them, we can figure something out. If we can't get the data we can make, we can make it, who can make it happen. Whoever doesn't give us information about what happened will listen and say what we're looking for. I think it's absurd, and that's why I suggest we approach the club this way. I think we will be in a position to discuss in real and sober terms every incident and on any territory in BiH. Every other time I think it won't bring the desired result.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7525	I thank Mr. Đedović. The word has a representative of the SDP Club, and may a representative of the HDZ Club be prepared. Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7526	Respected Presidency, respected colleagues and fellow MPs - MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would like first of all to stress that representatives in this SDP BiH home are one of those 15 signatories of the initiative to discuss this house, but be careful to discuss the current security situation in BiH. It is known that this has resulted in our conclusion that the Council of Ministers is asked for adequate information, which would be presented and considered at this home. I'm not going to repeat here the entire procedure of providing relevant information for this home, which has been dragging in here for two full months. In some ways, I can understand the difficulties of establishing the Council of Ministers. Of course, and that's a special story about why it went so sloppyly, but most of all what bothers me about all this is, I'd say an incorrect relationship to this home. I repeat, on the topic, the current security situation in BiH, which we have been looking for because we have all agreed that the security situation in BiH has been significantly worsened lately. After two months, we get, as colleagues here have previously pointed out three separatists that are incompatible to each other and that do not reflect that I say a minimum of information and data on the given subject. In particular, I would like to emphasise what we all know well, and particularly the members of the Council of Ministers, that security is not an immediate segment dealing with the IDP entities and the Brcko District. This is a much more complex issue, which includes cooperation and additional information from the State Border Service, Customs, Tax Administration, Prosecutor's Office, Defence, etc. So, respecting all this, I must reiterate my disappointment with the Council of Ministers' relationship to this home. As a result, I share the view that, in addition to fully respecting the seriousness, importance and urgency, to discuss this situation in BiH, we do not today, unfortunately, have such bases on which this home could see the causes, look at the real consequences, and that certain initiatives to take appropriate measures and activities towards all relevant state organisations of the institutions. 14 When I say initiatives, I think first of all about better coordination of state authorities, harmonisation of laws in this area, the adoption of new laws and the formation of new bodies of institutions that should protect BiH citizens, make them much safer and to answer questions of coordination with neighbouring countries and countries in the region. Of course, this requires a longer elaborate than I'd like to take my time for today. So, I would like to stress that this home, starting with its political, social and constitutional position, has the right to require adequate information based on which this home should be determined in terms of which I have already mentioned. So, just on the basis of such an analysis, this debate on such a very important topic can make sense and may have a purpose. All of this today, gentlemen, I think it leads to a more specific declaration and resolution, for which we didn't have to wait this long. However, in order for this presentation to have some purpose and purpose, I would like to join those proposals that go into that sense so that today, I say, we do not delay but make a commitment to conduct a debate on the security situation in BiH as soon as possible, with such preparations as I have said. Why didn't I say rock? Here are the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I want them to say during the session when they can provide us with such conditions for this debate. I also suggest that this home be considered for the importance of this topic and the importance of BiH's situation and future, it recommends that a similar topic be discussed in the entity and Brcko districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7527	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Vinko Zorić, president of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7528	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, we have finally welcomed the implementation of the request by the HDZ Representatives' Club to hold an extraordinary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House on the topic of the current-security situation in BiH. Judging by the materials we've received, we could call the calm souls this item of the agenda and call it the stories of the security situation, the movement and the stay of strangers and everything else, just not what we should about. Final observations that speak of a satisfactory state of security raise the question of whether we need to discuss anything. It seems to me that much better if we had invited representatives of the citizens to see what they thought about their safety... so that they could convince us that we were wrong when we asked for an extraordinary session. Perhaps it would be better if we had scheduled this session as a ceremony for the award of honors to all those responsible for such a good security situation. All of this would have been good if we hadn't asked for the session after several disgusting crimes against BiH citizens who culminated in a terrible crime against the Croatian family Anđelić in Kostanica near Konjica. All of this would be good if every day some unknown explosive device didn't explode, that every day at least one car didn't blow up, that every day in half of Sarajevo we didn't have a few developments and bold thefts, etc. And the Federal Ministry of Interior report says that the safety of returnees and everyone else is satisfactory. In particular, it stresses that 15 has been satisfactory in the last two years, probably so long the mandate of those who have made the report. That man trusts neither himself nor his own eyes nor his common sense. It's the same federal M.O.P., whose deputy minister was a victim of a classic terrorist act, the perpetrators of which have not been discovered so far. There were, to the soul, failed attempts to mount a process, not only to prevent an investigation but also to accuse innocent persons and yet to no one. If it can be tried according to the MUP report, there are main problems of illegal migration, movement and staying foreigners, and once we resolve this security will certainly be at the highest possible level. A lot of mines, murders, intimidations and robberies, and who knows what they're talking about. A man just can't believe it. We don't have the opportunity to see a report from at least one of the many secret services that are secretly concerned about our safety. Manny, it may not be clear to me what is the role of all secret services in the BiH Security System and all its entities, districts, military and police. If there were no astronomical and budgetary items in the budgets of both entities and the BiH Budget, which shows that these special services are very special fees for their work, one would think that we do not have those services. Or they think they're so secret that the Parliamentary Assembly can't know what they're doing, what they're doing and whose function they're in. In the function of those who pay them well obviously are not, because if they were, there would be less reason for these discussions, and even more concrete information about the organizers, the contracting authorities, and even the executioners, we'd have more of them than we have right now, I mean in disclosure. They deal most with each other and a little bit with us. That's why they don't have time to deal with what they're supposed to do. During that time, those whom they should deal with without any burdens and fear terrorise us, offer us safety only outside BiH, blow up what they arrive and kill and rob when it comes to their minds. The reports we received today, and if that wasn't the applicant's intention and more than they wanted to talk about the essence of our problems. We have no problem with Muamer Topalović and similar to him. We have a problem with those who encourage the Muamere, who sponsor them and who through these and similar accounts send them messages that what they do is not worrying, but satisfying, that what they do is nothing special and that it is not terrorism, but a mild threat to the safety of the returnees. When I talk about Muamer, I mean all the Muamer, no matter what their name is, their nationality or anything else. It's not enough to say that we're committed to fighting terrorism and encouraging terrorists to step up their activities. It is not enough to say that we are committed to the fight against organised crime, and to support it by our inefficient work of unhappiness. It's not wise to fool yourself with the illusion that terrorists will always attack those other and different. It's not just some M.O.P.'s problem or some kind of service. The problem is the entire state system. The problem is a state system where all priorities must be at least similar. We cannot talk about an organized fight against terrorism and organised crime in which we all obstruct the charming Minister of Security to establish at least a minimum security system, in which the Minister of Security of an entity and its very poor report does not wish to deliver to the State Minister of Security, in which secret services may be more monitored and investigated by each other than terrorists and criminals in which no one is responding to anyone or to their House of Representatives. It's our reality, and we have to tell our citizens. We must ask them for support to enter the process of comprehensive security system reforms both in secret and in public. We and our citizens need a safe environment, not an environment in which terrorists and criminals will rule. We need a security system that will guarantee security on every inch of BiH. The existing system is not able to do that. We need a security system under 16 supervision of the legal institutions of the system, not the system that the institutions are trying to put under control, and in the interest of tight groups and criminals. The removal of constitutional provisions, which lead to the inequality of the people in BiH, is a prerequisite for a stable security-political situation in BiH. So on behalf of the club, I suggest the next two conclusions. First, the Council of BiH undertakes to propose a programme of comprehensive reforms of the BiH security system as soon as possible and no later than three months later. Secondly, the BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to propose a security strategy with the relevant institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7529	Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, SDA Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7530	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I consider it a truly historic moment that even in this House, a topic called the security situation in BiH has entered the Parliamentary Assembly. I have the impression that those who provided us with the information have an excuse that we were not determined enough when we sought information about the security situation in BiH. However, I also believe that there is no citizen of BiH or of a domestic or foreigner who is not aware of the extremely difficult security situation in BiH, which is manifested particularly through the disabling of the return and safe remains of returnees in their homes, whether by planting explosive devices, or other types of attacks. Also, the corsage of murder and injury to citizens through rapes, through sales, and even the production of intoxicating drugs, through importing and selling unhealthy food, through mass theft of cars, which has become the whole network, so if the one they stole the car tells you I won't pay you because I'm insured, says next time I'll kidnap your child and you'll pay. So, this is the situation, and they must know it and the applicants of the information and we here in this House, that is, this House. So that I do not list what is evident, and in order to ensure that this topic is continuously present not only in this House but also in the House of Peoples, the Party of Democratic Action Club proposes that this House adopt the following conclusions. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the government of both entities and the Brcko District government to provide the Council of Ministers with information within 30 days of today on any criminal offence or offence aimed at life, health or property of citizens with a special reference to returnees. This information should contain information on any event, which is a product of a criminal offence or of a criminal offence, information on the detection of the perpetrators, that you have not been sufficiently determined, information on the criminal or criminal prosecution of the perpetrators, information on the trial and conviction of the perpetrators, or the procreation of the prescribed sanctions. The second conclusion would be, the BiH Council of Ministers undertakes that within 15 days of obtaining information from the entity and government of Brcko District, it will analyse the information received and offer a proposal for measures to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The proposed measure would have to contain a minimum obligation for all competent domestic and foreign authorities, not 17 errors, domestic and foreign authorities to immediately approach the arrest of persons indicted for war crimes and genocide who have not responded to the call of the competent court. Second, the obligation of all levels of government to comply with its obligations under the Constitution and the law. The obligation for all three governments and parliaments to intervene on criminal law, so as to interfere with the implementation of Annex VII, i.e. The agreements on refugees and displaced persons shall be classified in the most serious criminal offences. Because this motification contains elements and genocide and terrorism. Both entities and Brcko District in their legislation write down the obligation of the municipality in which material and immaterial damage occurred following the attack on the property of the returnees to make full damage within three months of the occurrence of the damage. The obligation for both entities to ensure that the management structures of the interior ministry and the judicial authorities reflect the national composition of the amendments to the constitutions of both entities. The obligation of the competent authorities to remove and otherwise punish persons found not to have done their job in ensuring the security of citizens, or to do it sloppyly, the obligation that the entity and Brcko District parliaments to the competent judicial and prosecutorial council to deliver the names of prosecutors and judges suspected of doing their job contrary to the law. If domestic authorities are unable to implement a series of measures concerning them, then call for assistance from the Office of the High Representative. So this is indeed an opportunity for us as domestic authorities to do what we fought for in the election campaign and not to allow our work to be done by strangers, by any international organisation or by the Office of the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7531	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. In this way, representatives of the political parties' clubs in this home had the word. We're moving on with the debate. I ask everyone in writing to report to me in writing and to come here for a pay phone. The professional department should see to it that he picks up the applications, for discussion, of course, from now on, we'll do it that way. I have an application in writing by Mr Muhamed Moranjkić and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7532	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, Ministers, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, reading information on the state of security in the Federation of BiH, delivered by the Federal MUP, information partially delivered by the RS Ministry and the Brcko District, I was under the impression that someone would not state the real situation, which this high house is seeking to be presented. I also got the impression that not only is it information, that these three information are incomplete, but it's a little bit and inconclusive, at least when it comes to the dignity of this high house. I also got the impression that it was about the time I read the wild west of the 18th century, because I had digitally counted only the listed drying of criminal and other activities that were committed on the territory of these three ghettos in BiH and I can conclude that almost every tenth of this poor little BiH resident committed one of the crimes or crimes that were practically meant to be the subject of debate in this home. 18 The finding of all three reports that the situation is satisfactory is extremely unsatisfactory. I find it worrying, and in that context, I will speak for this speaker today. The security of one country or in one country, well, of course in this small BiH, depends on a series of factors operating inside and outside, bonding with one another and making it so. the external and internal security of cohesion with one whole, which makes the country unstable. I claim as an acquaintance of a man of the people that most of these works and these phenomena have political connotations. The organisation of the state, the political and economic system with particular emphasis on the social status and appetites of the environment towards this country are the main generators of both types of security in this country, with additional attention being paid to the action of extreme forces in all the mentioned parts, and particularly expressed by national and religious initiatives and abuses, where it is turned nationalistic and chauvinistically into exclusive. I am, above all, aware that there are more or more such forces in each country, but I can accept that they are organised and accepted and even guarded by the legal authorities of the state in this territory of BiH. And I can't get the impression that when I conclude this, the visas of so far indicators when at least it's about disclosing crimes that it's not organized or orchestrated by certain organs that cover them up or keep them safe. The external attacks on this country are drastically eroding and if there are more, because the presence of the international community and its position which is clear when it comes to the integrity and survival of this country makes a strong barrier for those in the environment, who expressed or still, unfortunately, express appetites for its territories, as well as for those who act on the inside in order to make this country unstable and susceptible to such things, which make security extremely difficult and, if so, we see that it is trying and vice versa. These forces are also joined by classical criminals who are eligible for their criminal activities in the country, so a new mafia made up of classical criminals and individual politicians, whose share of business is being held by parts or whole state bodies that give security to criminals to do their job safely, and prey, is probably divided by the established... It's our tragedy that we or we won't, or we shouldn't, at this time, touch into that hornet, justifying ourselves in front of the object or falsely that either we don't know anything or not, because it's not my thing, or most often a real concern for our own safety or for the blackest expressed through direct or indirect complicity forced by quasi-national or religious initiatives not to tell orders from these levels. I wouldn't be disappointed. On the contrary, I would be extremely happy as a man if at least in these senior state bodies there were people who didn't belong directly or indirectly to this layer that I called the political mafia. Time will show how right I am. It shows, the masks, normally, can't keep an eye on each other for a long time, and that's good, but it's our job not to wait for this to go on forever. Today we have an objective assembly or a condition that we either consciously or unconsciously created or accepted from someone who has imposed all of this on us, which makes life worse for the Norman man and the normal state in which we live and making it unstable and normal 19 lives in it. I'm only going to make some quick moves, so I don't take up your time, which I as a man and as a citizen and as an MP mean when it comes to this security situation. First of all, we are, or someone else did it for us. So complicated and reconciled this country that it has become so complicated and under the supposed signs of heavy, overpriced, unfunctional that it itself makes a suitable toll for abnormal criminal phenomena, which disturbs the normal functions of the state and thus the security situation in it, creating a suitable ground for the emergence and smooth operation of extreme forces that makes the entire system of states unstable. Someone not only gives these forces support, but organizes and protects them. Less or more, we all know what the forces are and who is behind them, as well as that they break this country and create chaos in it that pleases someone. We or some others, on our behalf, have gotoized this country, creating it, not only with territorial ghettos but also with a network of unnecessary parallel organs and institutions that have challenged a state monster, who doesn't have us in the world, so it's no wonder that we have such monstrous things that appear on stage. Two, due to the complexity of the system or the organized action of destructive forces, we are sometimes not able for months and even a year normally organise legal authority in certain parts of this auction without, let alone at the level of the entire state, cleaning consciously or unconsciously, organised or not organised, creating anarchy and space for criminal and abnormal phenomena in the state. I ask myself and us all how here and then normal citizens will feel safe and safe. Diva's peace, and criminals of all colors and shapes work uninterrupted with a full pair, and then they have someone else's protection. Three, and even when the state is working under alleged signs, like the kind in which they found political and classical criminals, they have their own parallel state with their borders, with their laws with their own network of traffic of all high gtariff goods through military equipment, poisons, intoxicating drugs, to traffic and trafficking of people, all genders and calibers. I wonder what the laws are like. So, they work parallelly and live two states, legal and illegal, that intertwine and you're never sure where you live at times. Someone dictates and imposes it on you, not you as a normal citizen, because instead of the state, the state, the state, the state, we support and finance normal state functions and needs, we practically fund crime and criminals who run the circuit in this country. Fourthly, the premises of this country and on other grounds are not safe for life and work, and as it will be with them, it is thought of spaces, simply uninterrupted by suspected war criminals, less than from all three peoples, and we all know who they are, and who they were, by the moss and were the ringleaders, the unseen war, and the cologne of the unremembered genocide in these areas. Today, and it's always been that weed spreads weeds, and the rule of law doesn't exist in a single state, and I'm undermining the unique is their only chance to survive and to continue in this chaos what they do, here they do. I wonder as far as we're going to go and what security and in those conditions we're talking about. Fifthly, there are still works and actions in this country and from unknown funds are funded by private and even private intelligence, counterintelligence services, military, paramilitary units or groups, which serve someone who sows fear in the life of an ordinary citizen in this desire. They are also ready to liquidate non-insects, not to say political opponents, and what's blackest of such liquidations, and those works of such groups are never revealed, as a rule, here's what we're witnessing in this country. I wonder, a normal citizen wonders how in such a state you can safely and safely feel anyone and who can claim that in these conditions anyone's life is safe. Is it safe for me to enter this building? 20 The Sixth, here in particular I must stress the existence, because I especially need to highlight the staying and functioning of the political mafia, which in its hands holds many strings and that it is the bearer and organizer of this chaos, instability and poor security in the country, and which makes this situation more complex and more dangerous for security, because here whoever needs to solve this situation, it complicates, organises and preserves it. So he sends that fata of what he did and, normally, you know where he's gonna... For this organized crime, as far as I know, no one has answered, and if so, it was small fish who dared to work on their own or didn't fit the mob law. Oh... the power centers and individuals are not allowed to use or abuse and the logistics of the armed forces alone, the moment Mr. Chairman, which, apart from classical crime, creates a difficult situation for the whole people and the whole people, because possible sanctions are imposed on the entire state by Norman and all citizens of this country. The very idea that you can or will be isolated from the world disturbs your safety in your head and beyond. We're also aware of these facts and conditions. The various criminal acts do not respect the laws and agreements, the return of refugees and exiles is prevented, the misdemeanors are not sanctioned, and it is not a rare case, and that the existing authority of the monitors and organises processes and coerces not only ordinary returnees but even certified police officers who have passed through such a procedure, so that they would create these people in a bad security situation, and they said, "Come back from where you came from and you haven't yet, you have no chance of coming back." For a long time now, this has been the last Mr. President installing a social bomb. If anything gets to this country's head, I think there's a number one enemy here, which in itself disturbs security all over the country, and how could it not, if I were to say just a few things, unemployment certainly is 50%, not 43 or 45 of how someone statistically casts out. We rob literally our own citizens with daily changes in very expensive documents, introduce unreasonable taxes, extra taxes, advances, and no one knows where that money is going. All of this creates an unstable social situation in this country. We're blackmailing our own citizens by introducing... documentation, please nice, today you can't enroll a child in school unless you bring confirmation that you paid taxes, that's beyond people's minds, and that kind of thing we need to know is that they're in life and what it is that creates an unstable situation, and that's the social bomb that, I'm afraid, is not going to explode quickly. We're organized asphyxiating and not protecting our economy, on the contrary, and we've choked this little thing, and we're creating the state that creates this today that's a picture of this country. We also accept on behalf of the citizens we finance in this area 14 states plus municipalities and local communities. It is not able to withstand the economy of the United States and not this poor cripple, who wears it all on his back, and it is reflected in particular and directly on this security situation. In particular, every political mob group, has created its tycoons, please know exactly, I guarantee every man who sits in this room, including journalists, knows the name and last name of at least one tycoon and knows which politician stands behind him, protects him and organizes that he robs this country and this people. So, we need to get out of that situation, to disarm that social cell phone. To deal with this situation, next to the Bulldozer Commission, I would like to ask Mr. or us here, Mr. Eždaun and we must first create a Rifle Commission who will dig up the roots of this evil, and then level it with the Bulldozer Commission who has mastered her work. We are, therefore, facing very difficult business, and I suggest that, tomorrow, from security and defence, economic reforms, we start working together in this country to create a stable state and not an unstable situation in this country. Thank you very much and thank you for your patience. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7533	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. I'd like to ask you ladies and gentlemen MPs, I have nine more registered debaters to take care of the weather. I think everything that's smart, in a well-prepared discussion, can be said in time from five to ten minutes. The discussions are not, indeed, restricted to the Rules of Procedure and I have no right to prevent anyone in the length of the discussion, but I would ask you to stick to this to bring the work of this session to an end today in the best possible way possible. The river has Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and let it be prepared, we will now go from below Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7534	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, given Mr. Chairman that you've declared your agenda, thereby resigning from the Poslovnk of Procedure, I am obliged to speak on this agenda point, to ask the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, for tomorrow's session of the agenda of preparation, a point that I wanted to suggest that I ask them for an appointment for tomorrow. Namely, to prepare one piece of information about what the entire public is aware of by means of information, something that is known as the Bulldozer Commission and that, for tomorrow, please prepare us for information on this, the more the chairman of the Council of Ministers has said in more places that the Council of Ministers will do its job without being sure that Parliament is doing its job. So I'd like to ask that material to be shared tomorrow and that tomorrow, Mr. Chairman, in line with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged College determines the dynamics of the next 39 days how long it takes for Parliament to meet for everything the Bulldozer Commission through the Council of Ministers to prepare for us in this light, at least three Parliament meetings, in order to have the opportunity to go through two readings for everything that needs to be done, and I would therefore ask for it to be done for tomorrow, so that tomorrow I would not have to use the business provision of Article 47 and 50, respectively, to seek a new item of the agenda tomorrow, so please, because this is, I believe, for the benefit of all of us, and I think we agree. Mr. Chairman, I hope you don't mind me taking advantage of this announcement to say this, so if you don't mind, let me now move on to the agenda, which is before us today. I want first of all to say that as most of us are probably, although everyone may not be ready to make a statement, but I am least disappointed with what we heard today from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. Let me remind you, it hasn't been 45 days since the Council of Ministers got this assignment but it's been two months. It was also warned by Mr Zorić, if I am not mistaken, referring to 3.01. when a group of MPs signed one such request, directly, and not inferably invited by a terrorist attack and the murder of the Anđelić family by a terrorist. I think this material that we've got is a very good illustration of what's coming to us. Look at the little paper we got. 3.01. request sent to the Members. On January 9th, Parlment sent it to the Council of Ministers. The chairman of the Council of Ministers was due two weeks in order to refer the request to entity governments and 22 Brcko on January 24th. So it took him three weeks since Parliament submitted a request for him to send a letter requesting adequate information. Three weeks were necessary for that. The Federation government reacted after two weeks. You can see that after two weeks, the interior minister delivered material, which the federal prime minister directed immediately to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. True, the RS government did so in the least appropriate manner by waiting for a full four weeks after receiving a letter to provide one information that had nothing to do with what was required of it. What concerns me particularly, not by coordinating between the entity governments and the Council of Ministers, that Mr. Terzić, as prime minister, took three weeks, i.e. two weeks to refer this information to his colleague, Čolak. So we see that there's no wonder here that we don't know if we've waited 45 days or 60 days for this, what we've realized today is that the least we can say is completely inadequate. That's why, Mr. Chairman, that's why many of us are going to have to spend a little longer. What's particularly worrying about what we see here today is the identity of the one who is the government and who is the opposition. I'll say a little bit about that later. Here we have representatives of the ruling parties' clubs, which are giving us exposure, which are, don't get me wrong, but the least of all inappropriate to the Council of Ministers, I'll look back at that. We, unfortunately from the means of information, learn much more from the official statements of the Council of Ministers' chiefs than we have learned today. Look, today you could read in an official statement after yesterday's meeting of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security Mr. Čolak, with Mr. Gregorijan, otherwise Deputy Head of the South-Eastern Europe Department in the Stade segment from which we were able to see that the SIP exists only on paper and that therefore there is no funds in Budget. Which was small for me to say, a startling fact, because as far as I know in the budget, certain funds are provided, which I don't believe are enough, but in any case we haven't heard a word about it today. What also shocked me was to hear from the Prime Minister's Presidency that the Council of Ministers had not discussed this, as it would have amnested the RS government. First, you did not amnesty the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that is perfectly clear, but you did not amnesty yourself, because what we are offered is completely inappropriate and peaceful situation and not the situation in which we are now. For the tragedy to be higher, today we learn that the BiH presidency yesterday demanded that the perpetrators of criminal acts of terrorism be sanctioned with law. We don't see anyone in the presidency here today to at least honor us. Perhaps they knew what you had prepared for today's session so they wouldn't participate in this farce from the agenda point. All this is happening in a situation where an hour's drive from here, in one prison prisoners, climbs up a notch and as the prison director says again, I haven't seen the information, but I've seen it on TV, says they have a lot of unusual demands. They don't want hot water, to beat them less to have more walks and that's better heating. People want to go home. So, out comes the man says people complain they want to go home and support the newly elected state leaders. It's all right, but it's about one situation we came into. At the same time, we have, I may say, the desecration of religious objects, the attacks on returnees, the manipulations of charges for this or that kind of event that happened in the past and as if in some way so-called. The fight against the police state has turned a little bit into a struggle for a state that the police are afraid to do their job. There was not a word here in the opening remarks about a shameful act of the international community called the dessert of 23 19 specialists from Canton of Sarajevo who is a direct message to criminals in this city, a direct message to criminals in this city to harass and rule this city and messages to each other. But I don't want to talk about it right now. I think what took care of me here, too, when I heard just to remind you. What have we heard here? We heard here from the representatives of the SDS, as representatives of the Club and not MPs, yes, possibly more insolently in the Dayton Agreement, look at the manetogram, guide us, possibly into the new conflicts we have seen. What's this about? Now there's no respect for the Dayton Agreement, war criminals are walking free here, their names and last names are known, the returnees are now attacking, the return is not possible until the end, and what we're talking about now, is someone telling us, there's no need for people to freak out. There's no conflict. It's not this. We might be back in '96. Or '98. And thank Bog in '92. is behind us. That's what people should be told. Don't threaten with any new conflicts. Here, too, a difficult economic situation is being said here to use the former government to bring down the legal government. Please, what are they, say who wants to bring down legal power? We want to bring down irresponsible behavior from people who are in power, but something like this, then watch what we've heard here, the international community decides on everything and domestic politicians can't do anything, says the man who's part of the ruling coalition here. We heard here when the high representative was told here, it's glorious how I quote, for the first time, we got a high representative who came to us here like we did, and he doesn't say what he's going to do. And now we hear from the mouths of the same people, that they can't do anything here, and that the international community decides everything. I agree with one of your approaches on this subject, but I can't agree with both of you because your steps on this topic have been contradictory to each other in the last two months. We also heard here about SFOR's violent behaviour, and how the high representative will determine the price of cheese, possibly. But as it started, I wouldn't be surprised to determine many things that are much more banal ego that are the price of cheese and the question arises. Who today has the right to take in certain parts of BiH, specifically in RS, to issue ID cards past the CIPS and to cost more than 14.5 marks? Who has the right to do that? And something like that isn't even responsible for us. We have heard the opposition's representatives demand the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, that's fine with the situation in which they own themselves, so to speak, the authorities are deeming MPs from the ruling parties. I also agree with Mr. Zorić who says this could be called as I tell you a story about the security situation, and be careful you owe from the HDZ Club the president of your party is the minister of security. This is your government, your council of ministers, and you're telling us about how this is called a safety story, that man, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7535	Please, don't get into your word while you're in place. Mr. Lagumdžija, I've announced you as a debater, not as a replicator, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7536	So I'm discussing what you think.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7537	So you're having a discussion. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7538	Mr. Džaferović, you should know that in the discussion of people if they are discussing, if this is communication, then they are not talking to people who have only said something through replicas, but through what is said and what is said to come to a common position.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7539	I expect you to say something constructive to improve the security situation in BiH, which is why I said, "Here you go, you move on, you're right."
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7540	I think that remark would be much more appropriate to you if you had told the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7541	We're not going to lead the controversy. Please continue, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7542	Well, normally we won't, but you do. You in the Rules of Procedure, when you want to discuss, you go out for a pay phone and give yourself a word and go out for a pay phone. Here, we also heard that this is on behalf of the SDA, that this is a historic moment because for the first time this speaker is talking about security. I want to correct you. In the last two years, let my colleague Belkić correct me, if I'm wrong, twice happened for the first time that you've said something in the last two years, such a session has been consecrated after a fascist rampage over an attempt to rebuild Ferhadia. The parliament sat down and took a unanimous stance the second time after 9/11 when the parliament also unanimously adopted a programme of activities in the fight against terrorism, with a similar occasion. So I want to draw your attention that history didn't happen today for the first time. In that light, I'd recommend a few conclusions. First, I think that our debate today should be complete to open a process that will lead us to send a clear message to criminals on the one hand, and on the other hand to the investigative and judicial judicial authorities of criminals that they will have against them institutions of the rule of law and to send a message to the investigative, police, judicial and judicial authorities to do their job without any pressure and that this parliamentary assembly is behind the rule of law and their proceedings in accordance with the law. In this light, I propose also one of the working conclusions, which is to speed up the process of forming the SIP in accordance with the law and with the relevant law of the Council of Ministers and other institutions related to them. In addition, to speed up the implementation of the CIPs and to sanction all those standing in the way of the acceleration of the project in an appropriate manner. 25 I also think that this Parliament, in the context of support for judicial authorities, would call on the judicial authorities to do their work without any pressure, and I specifically think that it is not a waste, given what has been happening in the public lately, that a serious case such as the case for pogorelica to send a message to the competent judicial and prosecutor authorities that this case, in accordance with the law, leads to the end or that these people are either released or punished, depending on what the court takes as a measurement in accordance with what is called the rule of law. I also suggest that Mr. Chairman that because we are prepared to hold a session in this way so that we can finely assign the Council of Ministers so as not to comment on the proposals of the conclusions that are here to give us in the next three months, it may not be three months, but in the next two or three weeks, as this already fits into the dynamics of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, in view of the obligations arising from the Buldozer action, that in the next two or three weeks, we can prepare the relevant material and that we will discuss this on the basis of the material that will be proposed by the Council of Ministers with a proposal of conclusions and measures that should come from this and not that we now improvise further with the conclusions, because I would like, in particular, to get into writing of the conclusions proposed by the Council of Ministers here, presented to us, in part of Mr. Zorić, from Ms. Palavrić, some of the other colleagues, that you should not be prepared with the need to give them the need to give them the necessaryness of the necessaryness of the need to make the need of the necessaryness of the need of the Ministers and the need to give them. I think that it would be good for the Bureau members to be present on this occasion, to have members of the Bureau present in the preparation of this, rather than reminding you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of that, if there is no willingness that the House may make a proper request that it be arranged. Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7543	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Wait a minute. Please wait. Please don't go any further on the discussions, refrain from the replicas, so I also warned Mr. Lagumdžija not to replicate but to discuss. I'll just give one answer. This is a special session today, with only one item on the agenda, which we have long agreed on and at which we have long insisted, and for this reason today there was no debate on the agenda, because that's how we decided here ourselves. The activities of Commission Buldozer and its relationship with Parliament are being led by meetings within the College and you will be in the course of a regular session tomorrow, Mr Lagumdžija and all MPs will be informed of the plan this college has, when it comes to these activities, only you, for information, that you know that we are taking care of it. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7544	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman and Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, above all I would like to say that this item of the agenda was requested earlier at the request of Professor Špirić's MP, which was subsequently supported by the HDZ Club and, of course, supported by their own signature, including myself with the desire to discuss this important topic. 26 It was 41 days since 3 January when Professor Špirić asked it with a desire that after that tragedy with the family of Anđelić in the village of Kostanica in Konjic, Christmas Eve on the greatest Christian evening, on the eve of Bižić's greatest Christian holiday, such a tragedy took place, which, of course, again has one of its specific weights. I believe that Professor Špirić certainly did not want it to last this long and remind me of the Rules of Procedure on our work of the House, Article 47, paragraph 3, which says when ten of the least MPs ask for a session, so the vice-president can, to the soul, be said within 10 days, schedule a session within 10 days and in this way should not have passed this long and if we had this explanation in the opening section why it was waiting so long, which shows the functional side, next to the organisational side, when it comes to government in BiH. Because if so much is to be waited for by bodies that need to be operational, and constantly in the report, they are constantly talking about the operational measures taken, actions, etc., then they are completely inoperable when required from this level of the relevant report. I think this is such an important question and that there should have been all the members of the Council of Ministers here and the chairman of whom there are no members of the Presidency, because what can happen in one country if people are killed. What can be more important and what is their job more important than this to protect every citizen at every cent of this country in this BiH. But, okay. What someone said, if it's cut out, then it's supposed to be done, what our people said, not waved, but brought to an end, like we didn't do anything. When we talk about this report, I don't want to talk about it much, except meekly, that he's completely missed out on the subject, that's what we're looking for, and that's when it comes to the return of human life and everything that involves a criminal act, about the return of people and property, we didn't get here. From these three subjects, we didn't get how many people were killed after Dejton, etc. And that's what we were looking for. It was the essence of our session to come to this and to see how endangered human life is. As far as the federal level of BiH is concerned, those on page 3 only briefly say, the interior ministry has taken and taken a number of other measures, related to the protection of returns and their assets. Nothing else. I agree that everything else can be very important as a segment, but on page 7, they say. The overall security situation was also affected by the protest gatherings of citizens, so they talk about wartime military people, the families of the dead, so it took more space than killing someone in this BiH, etc. And, of course, what irritates everyone and you here are the predecessors who said that the situation in everyone is satisfactory. But we don't have what we're thinking here. Which means satisfactory, they're all in some percentages. Is 100 people killed? So he says it's satisfactory if 99 were killed. It's simply such an important question that it's so unserious to write and sort these things out in percentages, if you don't have an indicator in front of you that you're going to combine, and it's about human lives, then it's really an extremely unserious state. And, of course, everyone here has been able to figure this out, which is that we need to create a political climate that has a significant impact on everything they've written about, and I'm going to stop here. It's all about politics. I read a book from Dejvid Noris who wrote a Balkan myth, which says about BiH: "Bosnia and Herzegovina is a dangerous place in which people's lives are manipulated. Of the couple, which is what it says there, several people continue to do so." Politics is everything. In what way do we have political security? If we take the former BiH, we had fewer cops and we had complete security and assets and people, but 27 was a stable political system, I speak for a period of stability. Who destabilised him, etc. It is a second topic, but it is important today, who it is and who it can provide political stabilisation in BiH, as a prerequisite for the previous action of all possible, means, actions and issues. Eh, speaking of which, then it would certainly be important to say the following, which is: Certain statements by our politicians. I wish today that Mr. Sulejman Tihić was a member of the presidency and that people, they really don't get me wrong. I am saying, can instead of such statements, one tolerance actually take place in BiH, because on March 1st BiH Independence Day, says the destabilisation of BiH has been carried out by the Serbian Democratic Party and is directly responsible for the war. If they are in power again, then he speaks a lot of things about Mr. Sulejman Tihić and talks about the overall cartoons when it comes to this mutual relationship. And many people again say that when the previous referendum was created on March 1st, it means that the previous referendum is being called on, then many people say that on March 1st, since such a political climate was created and human manipulation can mean working and that this day of freedom for many people say it actually killed a common life in BiH and people's trust. Have you ever thought about it, because one people has a referendum, and another people Serbian when they have a referendum, then they disrespect it, then they make fun of it. So you have the day of the republic where international community representatives also come on the day of independence on 1 March BiH and do not come on the day of RS and therefore I ask you to actually take off this hypocrisy in BiH that is on stage. I claim that in BiH, political life is extremely hypocritical. How do we check all this out? We are referring to a citizen, he is a sovereign people, that is, in democracy, a sovereign citizen. Now that we're acting like this and criticising various referendums, will we now, like this authority, request a referendum in BiH? It all has to do with this subject, because people through these things are instrumentalizing and you have a hundred people who are going to pull the trigger tomorrow or drop the bomb. And the professor of Law School, Mr. Zdravko Grebo, says: "It is precisely a referendum that should be implemented in BiH, because he claims in the Start list that 80% of citizens do not want BiH like this. Whether an international community is allowed, whether institutions in BiH are allowed to test the citizen who is sovereignty, who has sovereignty in civil society. Let's ask him what he thinks about both BiH and everything. Are we ready to spend it or not? This political instability, I find it crucial, and that's why I talk a lot about it, because people who follow and listen to their leaders, their parties, are basically always treated by their statements, if they're calm and they're dying, and that's how you don't have problems in the people themselves. I would therefore suggest, since, in fact, that the largest parties that have gained the most trust in BiH, which is SDA, SDS and HDZ, are also government at all levels in BiH and entity and here in common bodies. To publicly organise how they want it, how they turn to the citizens of BiH and say that 12 years of one period, 12 years of intolerance, hate speech should replace speech of tolerance and reconciliation among the nations. I believe that this alone can be what is necessary today in BiH, which is political stability. If you continue today, and in that direction you go with some conclusions, which, and you yourself have said, the story that nothing happens, you will survive only this day, you will take a breath, you will save your chairs, you will not compromise what you have agreed as leadership, and against the people, and because of that people will always complain and perhaps decide on worse actions as will be destabilising in the next period, and I would not have ended up with Professor Špirić again who asked for it and if we had listened to the time that the Rules of Procedure foresees, we could hold a session and give an appeal to which I speak to our peoples and our citizens together, it might not have happened, unfortunately, in the meantime in Mostar. How many such incidents will be in the 28th time and who will take responsibility in BiH we will see, it is obvious that this assembly majority does not want it for me as an MP... thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7545	Mr. Selim Bešlagić, let Mr. Jahić Elmir prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7546	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I will, indeed, try to be very brief, I would just like to correct some wrong noodles. At the 4th session, as an MP, I asked what would be done by the Council of Ministers and Entity Authorities to prevent increased frequent incidents of attacks on returnees in RS as well as any other incidents in BiH if there were? This was equal to 17.12. and when this request was made out of that date, which came after, it was 75 days ago. After that, there is an incident that manifested itself in the murder of the Anđelić family, and here today we have a report that, on our request, we have not received the report we were looking for. Why did I ask this question again in 17.12.2002? I'll be completely pragmatic. I was deeply convinced that in the rights of returnees, the status of refugees and displaced persons is not identical for those who return to their homes and for those who return to their own country. While those who return to their apartments had the right to sell and sell, that's their business. There hasn't been a single incident, that someone was killed, beaten or maltleted. The evasive and displaced persons who were returning to their homes, and that was expressed to me, right on Tuzla Canton, because I worked with such problems initiated me as an MP to ask that question here. Unfortunately, I asked that question when Mr. Pedi Eždaun was, and then we didn't get the answer. And beyond that, what has happened is that there are a number of other things that have led to this question. I think here you'd like to explain to me as a member of Parliament, or, simply, that we, let's say, deny my opinion. Do we, as MPs of this high house, have the right to request reports of a security situation? If, uh, that's my colleague Jelina a little bit of a bug, because she says by entities she's there, we just need to discuss some higher things here. I think if that's the case, then I don't need this home to discuss anything at all. The security of BiH requires us MPs here to discuss the security situation has no right for any government in BiH from entity to cantonal to veto and not provide information. I think that's a principle question. And, second thing that's very important, it's this report that can't be done by the prime minister. This cannot even be done by the minister of security which is the new ministry we have, nor by the minister of justice, nor by the minister of human rights, refugees and displaced persons, this should be done by an expert team of precisely these ministries, because it seems to me that considering this problem is exactly what I would say to this Parliament to give the task to the governments of the entity and, let's say, even to the cantonal governments how to overcome the situation in which this group was found, I would say today to the most vulnerable people in BiH. Therefore, believe me, I am at the very beginning of reading this material and I have asked the parliamentary question I asked at tomorrow's, it is a current security 29 situation in BiH, from the point of view of my return and that is my parliamentary question that I am having this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7547	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The river has Mr. Elmir Jahić. Have Mr. Špirić Nikola prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7548	So I can relate to Mr. Bešlagić's discussion. In fact, I really think that discussing the security situation is one of the important segments of the work of any state and so does BiH, and I think it is necessary that we regularly and occasionally consider the situation of security throughout BiH, try to mark the causes and propose appropriate measures that will help people in charge of monitoring this area and address these problems, which are therefore in charge of citizens' security to do their job more easily. First of all, I am referring to the ethnic authorities, the Ministry of the Interior, the judicial authorities, but also us MPs. In our case, one aspect of security should be particularly isolated, because it is essential to implement the Dayton Agreement, then to amend to the constitution of entities, equality of all constituent peoples and citizens in BiH and ultimately to implement so many reforms we need in almost all areas of society. I do not want to degrade and give less importance to all other aspects, such as trafficking in human beings, drugs, other types of crime, etc. But let us not forget that the reason for reflecting this session was the disgusting murder of the Anđelić family not far from Konjic, and the reason why we are present today is to analyse the extent of the attacks on returnees, what are the consequences of these attacks on the return process as well as what measures we need to take in that direction. So that this home can properly look at the full state of security, and with a special reference to this issue, therefore, to the safety of the returnees. Members must also have relevant information. It is obvious that this material that we have received from the entity authorities, the competent interior ministries and the Brcko district is not. It may well be thought that it was intended to fail this session because we do not have valid information. I sincerely hope that was not an intention and that in the next period we will have valid information, because I also see that the proposed conclusions in this direction are that, in the coming period, the relevant entity ministries should deliver valid information on this matter. As MPs, however, we are obliged to prepare and, regardless of the material delivered to us in this case, the Council of Ministers or entity authorities. In addition, this is a session on the subject of a debate on the security situation and not on the information we have received at first. So we can also discuss without this material. We were obliged to prepare ourselves in some other ways to present these data that we have that we can compare. You know very well that we are one of our conclusions was to direct the entity congregations to hold or thematic sessions on this topic as we do today, or to devote a special agenda point to the problem of attacking the returnees and all that that includes. 30 I am pleased that in the field of the RS entity, the agenda was adopted last week, where it will be discussed and at today's session I think that will be discussed. As far as I know, again, I take it as my right to make a mistake, I don't think this has been discussed in the Federal Parliament and I think the Federation Parliament should do so as soon as possible. Also, I'm not familiar with the Brcko District whether this procedure has been carried out and I think we should make an appeal to deal with it as soon as possible. Before I go to some point in my exposure, I'd like to, however, comment on this information. And I, too, noticed seeing at the end of each report the situation is satisfactory. However, we see, I will perhaps take the Federation first where it says the security situation to the Federation in 2002 is characterised by a slight increase in the total number of criminal acts compared to 2001. So we're coming into collage, if it's a satisfactory increase is the total number of crimes, so it's not going with each other. And all the other aspects, too. Here, let's say, the general crime is also on the rise by 5.3%, then criminal acts of robbery, robbery theft, etc., the decline of the crime of estrangement of motor vehicles, etc. What I'm particularly interested in in in this report is that I think I should have given a greater accent. In this report it has covered, I think it should have been elaborated, as some predecessors had said before. So this problem attacks the returnees, so here, according to the return of the refugees and displaced persons and their safety. It says here that police in the Federation of BiH during 2002 have given special importance to the commitment to ensure minority returns to the Federation since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement by the end of 2002 in the Federation area of 678,785 people returned. Finally, he said, given that the number of incidents that occurred when refugees and relocated persons returned by size and type were significantly lower compared to the previous period, it can be concluded that the safety of returnees in the Federation of BiH territory is satisfactory. It is a similar situation, and as far as Brcko District is concerned, where one sentence is, in fact, a sentence that also says that it is a satisfactory situation and that it is smaller than the previous period. Information on some security and other aspects of the movement and residence of foreigners with regard to illegal migration and human trafficking delivered by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be used in truth as the starting material for consideration, as well as these others from the Federation and from the district of Brcko so that they can give valid views. I have one piece of information regarding these exclusive attacks on returnees in both Bosnian Herzegovina entities and in the Brcko District area. I have this data, therefore, that a total of 132 such acts were recorded in the BiH area last 2002, so attacks on returnees and their assets and of the number mentioned in the Federation were carried out in the area of RS 69 acts, while 3 such acts were carried out in the Brcko District area of BH. During 2002, in the Federation, it was recorded as I said 60 attacks, and it was mostly carried out in the territory of the HNK of the Herzegovic-Neretva Canton 26 and the Mediterranean Canton. That's what we have here, for example. according to municipalities that there were 20 attacks in Mostar, in Stoc 4, Sarajevo 4, Zavidovica 2, Ljubuski 2, glamoch 3 etc. 31 Last year, also in RS, there was a reduction in terrorist attacks, so attacks on returnees, and in 2002 69 acts were recorded, unlike in 2001, when we recorded 90. I want to say that there is a frontal area of Predor with 13, Bijeljina, Trebinje, Foča, Zvornik, etc. Also, I would like to refer to one, one piece of information, which Mr. Chairman recently stated in his opening statement. Therefore, this is information on the security of returnees and persons of non-Serb nationality and activities of the Ministry of Interior in the RS area. I think of all the materials available that could reach my hand, I think this, in truth, is the most qualitative material that could be the basis for our discussion. Today, this material is being considered. I hope that MPs in the National Assembly of the RS will bring some appropriate views. I wish you, since I believe you don't, you don't, you're not in possession of this information that I especially apostrophe for you. Namely, the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement and the more intense return of the Bosniak and Croatian population to RS over the previous years have, to some extent, affected the security environment in certain areas. In fact, here, unfortunately, it is the impression that returnees who are not driven out of their homes by their own will and who return to their homes are the most responsible for this security environment and the security situation. Then, it is said that this issue is additionally burdened by the fact that in criminal acts, offences or dutiful illegal acts against returnees and non-Serb nationalities in general, they unequivocally give wider dimensions to the public. I want, however, no matter what this applies, therefore, to the RS report I am now speaking in the whole of BiH that both BH entities, namely, are best pictured of the relationship with the problem of the attack on returnees. The attack on returnees has and must have a wider dimension than the usual observation of other criminal acts. Why? Well, at least it seems clear to everyone who's in charge of taking care of it. The attacks on the returnees of the so-called. minority returnees, even if that is not the aim of the perpetrator, have the consequence of spreading fear, or terror among the return population. In doing so, these acts have more or less elements of terrorist attacks, so they must be watched and given a wider dimension. They cannot be classified in the same basket as other crimes that are present in the BiH area. This implies a more responsible and honest relationship, not by any means the manipulation and abuse of these events for daily-political purposes. That is why this issue is of first-class political, social and state importance, and must be seen in the widest possible context. Here, it is also said that a special site has explosions caused by throwing or planting explosive devices and mostly hand grenades. In 2002, of the 118 total explosions recorded in 18 cases, 5 were lit. The property of a non-Serb nationality was attacked. This is where I'd like to do a dipression. A few minutes ago, there was a talk about one report going for, it had to go to the state level and the other one going to the entity. Does this mean that at one level it should be said that an explosive device was dropped and in another report it was a stone. I think, therefore, that the heads of all levels should be informed of the complete security situation in BiH. It is also said in one place, as regards robbery, etc. that these crimes cannot be brought into contact with national belongings, because the attackers at the time of execution are generally not known identity damaged and the murderous is beneficial. We must take one stand, no matter what the motive, the result of these acts is fear so-called. the minority people in this area, which leads to a reduction in the will to return. 32 Here we have that in 2001 of 115 recorded explosions in 33 cases the property of a non-Serb nationality person etc was attacked. Here, let me say in particular, I would like to highlight a segment of this report where recently it says increasingly frequent thefts and heavy thefts involving returnees of non-Serbian nationality are observed. More and more frequent cases are that they steal construction material, carpentry, furniture, tools, and others, equipment for rebuilding or newly built houses. Non-Serb nationalities also participate in other criminal acts, etc. Based on this report, I can, obviously, draw two to three conclusions, which is that there is an actual lack of understanding of this complex problem by putting it in the same rank as other criminal acts, and not realizing that the attack on returnees has been influenced by a terrorist act and that as such they must be treated specifically. The report itself is too nationally colored, too much to use these terms Serbian, non-Serbian, etc. on the basis of which it can be concluded that there are double standards in the treatment of these works. There are some other elements that I wouldn't want to particularly apostrophe now, because we could further agree on today's debate and take it in some unwanted direction that I don't want, and I think that the more unique we have to stand behind some conclusions that will be in the direction that is more effective against the attack on the returnees. In this context, I propose some conclusions, which is: Therefore, to condemn all attacks on returnees and their property, which are motivated by national and religious impatience or which result in the spread of fear in vegetable populations and that the competent authorities are required special involvement in the racing and punishment of perpetrators and inciting of these misdeeds. To amend and supplement the criminal law by which the attack on returnees will be prescribed as a serious crime. We ask the entity governments to consistently implement the Constitution within six months in a segment of the national representation of the constituent peoples in the interior ministry's management structures in BiH, where this has not been done so far. Obligate units of local administrations, municipalities and cantons, depending on the entity's organisation to compensate for material damage caused by attacks on returnees. Last, as soon as possible to form a Security Commission for the House of Representatives. I know this procedure has been initiated, but I think we should get this job done as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7549	Thank you. Mr. Špirić Nikola. Have Mr. Martin Raguž prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7550	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, if in any normal country in the world one government had given its parliament what the Council of Ministers prepared together with our colleague today, then, if it had minimum responsibility for what is called the worsening security situation in BiH, the first item of the agenda would have been the Council of Ministers, or the Government of BiH, and when we apostrophy it would be a security situation. Unfortunately, in front of the public, I would like to say that 33 is that the Extended College, along with the Council of Ministers, has therefore, that the parliamentary majority counciled yesterday afternoon, to get out of the porridge itself. Hence today's attitude towards, let's say, the presentation of Mr Lagumdžija's MPs and I'll say where I agree in his discussion. So, I don't need to defend him, but I don't think it's appropriate that the College wants MPs from the opposition, under quotes, to get in line. This is our common problem. So the problem is both the authorities and the opposition. As possible, I am asking today that when the State Parliament asks for an emergency session, and it has been related to the accident for the Anđelić family's murder that there is no extraordinary Council of Ministers session, that there is no emergency session of the Presidency dedicated to the security situation, that from these extraordinary sessions together with the kolegij there is no extraordinary session of the Presidency in which we will see what our powers are to make the situation better. But here, you see the Presidency today, and it hasn't found fit to come, knowing what the material is. Today we heard from the chairman of the Council of Ministers that his task was merely to forward the request of MPs to entity prime ministers or competent ministers and that it was God's task. But, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that today we are not ready to discuss these problems. There's nothing wrong with this information. They themselves talk enough about either good or bad security situation, and while in Europe and the world planetary teams are being created, therefore, planetary in the fight against crime and corruption, we are closing our information in entity, cantonal, and as far as the state level is concerned, we are ashamed of ourselves and that we are looking for this information and I am convinced that this way, in which we started to work, is on the line of protection and inciting what is not good in BiH, and unfortunately we were witnesses the other day in Mostar, yesterday in Drava, etc. But as if we're not aware that the whole three-part issue of BiH has been confirmed today by these materials. The whole three parts in a safe sense, which is the product of SDS, HDZ and the U.S.A. policy, which today decided to go over this silently and to re-promise to the citizens that they are willing to do something, to do something about it, and every day at which the unfortunate man will be killed in this country. That's your answer. So it's not disputed that people were doing information, it's a controversial political message, and in that message, the whole three-part message creates an environment for current and future instability. If the parliamentary assembly has the power to look the truth in the eye, to agree on how to work, I would like to see it from debate and so long as we do not have these powers, today we must at least have the strength to thank the representatives of the international community, who, unfortunately, are doing it on behalf of us. While we are unable to even open the debate, they deal with international terrorism in BiH, they deal with the detection of crime in BiH, the biggest affairs, they deal with, by collecting illegally stored weapons from both entities. I don't see that in any M.O.P. reports. How can SFOR forces find illegally stored weapons and large quantities, amounts of which the heart is followed by a man in the chest because it is not a weapon of the military or the MUP component. What are our institutions doing? Is it true our relationship that we want to make a better security environment in BiH, or is this that relationship that they sleep so they don't touch. Yesterday, therefore, unfortunately from the parliamentary majority's representative, a statement was made that is not good, for example, a member of the presidency, Mr Tihić, says the war in BiH has begun a party with which he, unfortunately, was in the coalition. Should they convince us that there will be a better security situation? Do we have to keep everything quiet and this is all happening in the country we live in and we want to say that we need to be a safe state? What I'm saying is, the only conclusion that is to come today, in my view, is that the College with the Council of Ministers has held one unsuccessful session and that MPs do not accept the logs for today's unsuccessful session and, when they produce good information, which may be the subject of a metric debate, let them schedule that session. By the way, I think today is the biggest 34 indignities of this House, besides all the ugly things that are going on in BiH. What should that information contain and I'll say on the background of what Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija were talking about? What, therefore, are the underlying weaknesses of a poor security situation or on the basis of which we could, as a state Parliament, make that information. It must have a simple analysis of the causes of political and legal and organisational structures. What's security that it would take from that aspect to make her better. Some call it reform, but the word reform is what happens and terrorists reform and kill themselves and it's reform. Which means a story in BiH about some major reforms. Secondly, the causes of economic and social nature, which is the payment of the only state agency, which is the SIP. I'm surprised the director or the directory aren't here today or they're not invited or I don't know what the reason is. That's what Mr. Lagumdžija was talking about. It's the only agency that had to find a place in the budget and not that it couldn't find a head office in BiH. Why is that? Because the only thing that's called a national security sense isn't coming through here either. Is there an answer for that? Is it the opposition's fault? Another thing, equating material incomes when speaking from the social nature of police officers at BiH level. Third, the causes related to BiH's international position in terms of the decertification of police officers spoken of by counterpart Lagumdžija and the creation of the environment. BiH has been transformed into an environment for illegal immigration, for trafficking in white goods, for money laundering, and is not afraid to say representatives of the international community and it is said that 40% of drugs in transit go through BiH to Europe and 60% of trafficking in white goods and now return to this information, which can serve as some starting point. Here, unfortunately, there are some findings that don't matter, let's just say that minors are prone to crime and rape, so I guess there won't be pensioners prone to rape, etc. So this is where the fragrant data comes in, who wants to read it. Crime, corruption is all on the rise, it's just, for God's sakes, economic crime has gone down. At a time when the audit offices of OHR warn, no more millions of dollars, amounts, embezzlements, there's economic crime in decline. What else should be said about, here you have, let's say it would be good in BiH to compare these growth rates to, say, the overall crime rate of the growth rate of 5.3%, then economic crime, I said fortunately this country has been reduced, so public order and peace has been broken somewhere 20% more. The situation in traffic security has also been marred, and what I was saying about general crime and prostitution and rape is also on the rise. Also, about drugs and drug trafficking. There are general findings here that can't help us with any decision. As for the report, as regards the report by the RS MUP and this is what I noticed today and believe what is ugly, which is hypocritical of the representatives of the state authorities at the time when the family in Konjic was killed at the time the Hnjačići in Mostar were killed, at a time when a student of the Serbian nationality of Bajić was beaten in Drvar yesterday, the report from the RS from the MUP was not good. This is only about a report that is in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, which is the task of this parliament, if space does not create it to get a different report. But here this morning when we started the session because with the thesis that this is no good, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia did not send information that would satisfy the Members of Parliament here. So, ladies and gentlemen, things here are quite clear, at least for me. We held one of the most unsuccessful sessions so far, one of the most unsuccessful. We did not send a good message and my conclusion that the College with the Council of Ministers, therefore, is the only conclusion with the Council of 35 ministers to prepare a new session and that we will consider any breach of security in BiH as the Council of Ministers as our executive body and resolution ministry. When we introduce this level of debauchery here and when the ministers fly for failure in their portfolio and the president of the government, then believe there will be a security situation on the ground much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7551	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Let me tell you briefly, that last time you were here for a pay phone at the last session, and you criticised the College and me as chairman for not having this session, and there are no agenda points, and when what can be done by the College is done, then it's being criticised again, but obviously, we are in your eyes all the time and that we need to get used to that role. You have the right to your opinion. Mr. Raguž. Let's get ready for Mr. Ćeman. You'll have it later. I gave the man my word. I'll allow you the opportunity to say, the man is already behind the pay phone. Here you go. I'm not nervous at all, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7552	My apologies to my Raguž Raguju once more. So it is not my goal to replicate either, but the way you want to lead and finish the session will be another message to the public of BiH. I mean, I'm not a man who's looking forward to the mistakes of the College, nor am I fishing for the College in error, but you might think that by any chance, when within 10 days, we asked for an emergency session for a poor security situation, when within 10 days he didn't get a report that he called an emergency session. Would that be a contribution to analyze what's going on? Who doesn't want to report to, but you run a majority agreed policy that has resulted in a worse security situation. The more you hold hands, in that sense, the harder the situation becomes. I have to say, I'm not mad at that. I wish it were different, if it were better, I'd make a contribution to it if that contribution were accepted. Thank you, Lip.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7553	Mr. Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. Let's get ready for Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7554	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, before I have prepared this part, which I have prepared as well as everyone else for correctness, I will say a few things, some of which Mr Gligorić mentioned. It is true that Mr Špirić condemned the crime against the Anđelić family in Konjic for this speaker, but it is also true that he did not launch an initiative for the extraordinary session of the House of Representatives, but that it did it 15 MPs and not only positions, but out of opposition. So these are the facts. I think it's important to know them here, too, because that doesn't require anyone to have the exclusive right that he started it, but obviously there was one consciousness in this house that we needed one such session, that it was a masculine murder only cause, you know how it was with the Sarajevo assassination, it was a cause. The causes were mature and deep to reach World War I, so I wouldn't want to say that this case would have a close-knit dimension, but it was certainly one of the initiators that we all alarm our own conscience and political capacity and possibilities and do something about it. 36 As for the session itself and its preparation, I can say that, it doesn't matter, I don't personally insist on doing so before. The explanation we received from the chairman of the Council of Ministers went in the direction that, however, we get something in writing and that we can carry out a quality discussion. But I'm an advocate, now I'm speaking for myself, the fact that today we're all being legitimate here, and we as representatives, and we as the College, and the position and opposition, and the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry, but also the government of entities and everyone else and everyone in front of the public, do and show what we think about this issue. This is an opportunity, Mr Špirić, and that entities who rightly fight for their constitutional and second position show today what they have given in favour of lighting and strengthening a single security situation in BiH. They also showed today. So, we had a choice or that we were endlessly postponing this session to which we have no right, or to put it on the agenda as a responsible home, so that as advocates, I, too, understand this session in a function that we as representatives today analyse this situation, determine ourselves towards it, and I hope that we will come to some conclusions that will be on track to make the overall situation worse in BiH. Of course, that's what happened, we know at what time. We cannot say that it was at the time of the new parliamentary majority, but in a kind of transition between the previous and this government and did not stop taking over power, there were murders and incidents and explosions and robberies and kidnappings and rapes and arson, etc. It was before, and it alarms that the necessary steps must be taken, but really institutional steps, if we want to take responsibility to be able to resolve this issue. Why? Because all reactions to these cases, mostly politically colored, spatial, national, territorial, and in any other respect, but what was their main characteristic of no event followed by responsibility, were individual, whether institutional. Consequences. The consequences are serious for BiH and its people, because the feeling of uncertainty from fear reflects multiplely on the security of citizens, both on the overall atmosphere and the environment not only for movement but for investment, for investment to open a perspective and as a consequence is the fact that a continuous departure of young and educated people from BiH has been continued, the message is increasingly coming that there will be no capital in this environment, there will be no distraction of jobs, no matter how many initiatives we have adopted in this parliament. Context. The context is '92. To this day, gentlemen. At least ten years. This isn't just this month. So, the context is war, destruction of spiritual, material, human, biological, unprecedented exodus in Europe's recent history, shifted more than two million people and the situation of Dayton's arrival, stopping war and creating such assumptions that it would go into reconstruction, reintegration and creating some opportunities for self-sustainable BiH. The results, however, are achieved. The limits are already visible. When I talk about coming back, we have here indicators that are official. So they are given by the UNHCR, given by the ministry in charge of the council of ministers, means that the percentage of the Federation's return is about 74.1% to the RS area is 23.8%. I don't want to go into deeper analysis, but obviously there's some kind of disproportion there are gentlemen. It requires a more serious analysis, whether it is double standards, whether it is a double approach both domestic and international organisations, as the consequences can be a lasting source of political and any other instability and threat to BiH's security. This disproportion should be removed in one coordinated and systematic manner. 37 Second, the costs of that apparatus that we're talking about today are being analysed. If we count that the budget of all levels of government in BiH, take both entities, counties, or cantons, BiH, position of certain services, somewhere above 4 billion KM, we will see that at least 25-30% of that money is allocated to the RS, Federation, its components, intelligence services, entity, SIP and a number of other things, and we do not include European police forces that have inherited the IPTF, the peacekeeping Stabilisation Force and all other costs, which are uniform and which are a little more rational and quality use, we would probably provide a more favourable overall environment in BiH, and I think it could be one of the conclusions, and in particular that we have neither transparency nor parliamentary supervision, nor the flow of information that is suitable for democratic societies and countries when it comes to this institution. Price. Who pays the price? The other thing I'm trying to say is, every serious state or state community predences and I know and you know it has a national, or national security strategy. We don't have that, and today we need to make it clear what the strategy is. This strategy should be one of the top priorities of this House and should give some real deadlines, if we were not in a position to offer real deadlines this time, to give real deadlines to the Council of Ministers with competent ministries to prepare one strategy that would be the basis for the work of all these instruments, whether military, defence, security, intelligence and all others. So, we now have one indiscretion in which each of these institutions can behave and act individually, without being able to compromise whether they work on the basis of officially adopted, officially adopted documents and frameworks that the highest legislative authority should establish. I'm going back to Dayton. Here he is mentioned, and I do not mention him in the context of those who mentioned him, I mention him in another context, because I believe that without more serious functioning Dejton will not be able to achieve a stable and sustainable peace and a complete political and security situation in BiH and that this should not go to the care of whom, but rather to go towards meeting both individual and collective national rights and all peoples and all citizens in BiH. What is clear today and what has not been said here at all is that the European Union and Europe through the entry and adoption of its second pillar, and this is a common defence and security policy, gentlemen, takes full responsibility and over this area of this region in Southeast Europe, and we are just a little pebble in that mosaic and we have only two options or to accept these standards, to try to be serious, that we can build our own small-scale architecture, otherwise it will be Pacificed and imposed on the sides, because it is too much of a price of stability and peace in this space and I am committed to this variant that through the adoption of a security strategy through the definition of security system reform across all levels, through responsibility at all levels, we show that we can also be part of the serious and developed world and I have seen in these materials that we have obtained direct conflict between all the political structures and the new responsibility of the right in terms of transparency. That doesn't ring a bell. The main coordinator of all these processes was the UN mission that regularly held meetings with police administration heads, Federation and RS ministers, directors of the State Border Service, I think it is time for this role to be taken over by domestic institutions, competent ministries and the Council of Ministers. What I think one of the conclusions should be that our home forms a parliamentary board of oversight, primarily of the SIP, but also of all other services of institutions that have a 38-secret mark and that we know in this home who gets information from these services, I do not have that information. Who is selected and who decides who will receive this information and who has the right to this information? Another final consideration. I think that today, regardless of the differences, and even some contradictions, I don't think that we missed this session that we have one basis for a common framework formulating the obligations of competent institutions and towards this home, and here I primarily think of the Council Ministry, the Ministry of Security, but gentlemen, could the Ministry of Security have been able to act legally and enforce these obligations until the law enters into force. Let's make a little correction to one procedure and a job where there was both the Minister and the Council of Ministers, but let's give them now on the basis of this debate a reasonable deadline to prepare one analytical information, to do so in cooperation with entity governments and to offer, I would say both reform and rationalisation of this and the framework in which all this will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7555	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman, let Mr. Živković be prepared, Milorad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7556	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I intended to speak before the predecessor, because I signaled to the chairman that I did not want to discuss, but actually replicate. I, by the way, intended to report for the discussion but gave it up at the time when I was given information, or information that limits the security situation in BiH, which instead consists entirely of three parts. Of course, I could say a lot of things that many here have already said, but I said, I gave up for the simple reason that in truth to discuss the security situation as important as it is right now, it would be wherever and where more responsibly and from the aspect of the role of this House and this Parliament and those who prepared this information if it were one whole view of the competent authority from the state level. Comrade Špirić, I felt the need to replicate. Namely, you are, in fact, taking authorship for this debate here today, probably one of those who contributed to this topic today, with the right, because the security situation in BiH must at all be a matter of one, or a single question. I personally condemn all kinds of threats and violations of the security situation in BiH. I said, why didn't I report that I was discussing, but we are constantly pointing at a three-way, in the truth, and I wouldn't have reported for this replica either that, unfortunately, the information that should have been at least a complete part, as well as from the other two conditionality to say from the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District had not just delivered the RS administration and, you see, it's interesting that the conductor there or the head of the team who, however, should have delivered neither the SDA nor the SDS, but just recently chaired by the Council of Ministers here who is now the head of the Government of Mr. Mikerević and who, surprisingly from last year's term of office, had not taken away the atmosphere of the positive in that government, so that he had at least honored this assembly that she had provided information about the security situation as a complete issue. It bothers me more than more of an ass, let's say, the lines of the SDS, SDA and HDZ. In any case, it seems to me that the information we have received and I will be pleased to get involved in this debate when and if the conclusion of this home is when we get complete information united, but we, therefore, have this RS approach8p personal to that student and his teacher, when he asked him, if I remember correctly the question of telling him something about Branko Ćopić, and he doesn't know anything, so he just said that Branko Ćopić was born in Hasani under Grmeč and what Đura Jakšić was good and then all 39 rows about Đura Jakšić. It seems that gentlemen from an entity called RS don't know anything about Branko Ćopić, so she sent us and gave us an answer to the question we didn't ask about Đura Jakšić, or she doesn't know professionally what the worse version is, what is all the matter of the security situation in BiH. Comrade Špirić, you asked for yourself, therefore, to discuss the security situation at this level. I'm surprised by your finding that it's satisfactory information that we've received, which has only included one segment or is one or the other in the competences of this home. I, of course, if I were to discuss it and not replicate it, I'd explain why it's much more than what we got, not just from the RS, but from the Federation and the Brcko District in the jurisdiction of this home, but I said this is just a replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7557	Okay. Here you go. Mr. Zorić, I owe you an apology. I, indeed, must apologize to you, since I have denied you the right to a replica, obviously does not go as I have imagined and, of course, to all those whom I have denied this right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7558	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how anyone agreed to run a session, but I do know that it's the right of an MP to speak, replicates when the need arises and that the solutions brought by the House are binding, no matter what I think, but I have to answer Mr. Ćeman to the public doing. For the first time since these elections, we have the same structure of government at the level of RS entities and at the level of the BiH state. I thought it was a good model, that people would negotiate and work in the interests of both entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must also tell you that the SDA participates in the Republika Srpska government. So it's not someone's republic, it's yours, and your MPs could have also asked, to suggest. But when I say yours, I think my MPs are, too. So I don't share it tightly one way or another. But you have to tell the public that you have authorities in Republika Srpska as well. Well, Mr. Mikerević was part of the congregation's majority in the last term and is now part of the congregation's majority. You can't hide from the public's eyes that the moment is together, the hour you're not together. The fact that the hour is, and the hour isn't, is the cause of a worse political security situation. That's all I want to point to. So you must say that part of the government in Republika Srpska is the government in which the SDA participates. The fact that you are not satisfied with the response makes MPs in the Republika Srpska Parliament step up their activities. When it comes to me, I'm looking for a shift, I'm not a fan of government. I'll tell you right away. I have the same relationship with that government and the Council of Ministers. I am so that both these governments are demissioning people who are going to work more seriously. But you're here to keep her alive and now you're imputing me that there's something wrong, which is why you gave the order to vote. Is there more hypocrisy in this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7559	Sir, of course, Živković Milorad has a word. Please have a nice one after Mr. Živković's three more reported discussions. Have Mr Momčilo Novaković prepare, then Mr Filip Andrić, excuse me, 40 Momčilo Novaković, followed by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Filip Andrić and Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. She's the last one to sign up for this. And that's the end of the discussion then please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7560	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I will agree with most MPs that this is practically the worst organised session ever in this House. The responsibility of the Council of Ministers is borne by the British government, but it is also borne by this presidency here. On several occasions, Mr. Chairman, you were going to think that this session would go the other way, that you had agreed and fell into my head means you'd cut it out. To this I would add that you have injured a member of the 54th Rules of Procedure, a member of the 3rd, who says – the chairman gives MPs the order in which they applied for it. In the papers standing in front of you, you will see that I am behind Mr. Špirić's application. You obviously also directed the way this discussion is going to be held in this home. On the other hand, although I belong to the opposition bloc of the parties in both Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, my wish as MPs in this high house is not only to criticise the government and the position, but to speed up the way in my constructive remarks and...proposes and raise the quality of this home's work to an appropriate level. That is what I consider as the majority of MPs here who previously discussed that the government is very sensitive to this one and I would say that the broadly defined agenda item has been prepared by a lot of smut and I would add very deficit information. This is because this lacks information on other segments of the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this concerns the situation, for example. in the armed forces, their numbers, management, obligations, material separation, etc. etc. It must not be forgotten that there have been a lot of affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina lately regarding this security situation segment. Just to mention the O.R.O., the pogorelica, the bridge case, etc. etc. If such an important segment is seen by the government as something that does not require a special elaborate, I do not think that we MPs should allow this to be discussed without adequate information from the authorities who are in charge of giving it to us. It has already been elaborated by many MPs, but I want to point out that the government has not done its job, and it has also made a mistake for the Presidency to allow this information to come to our session. Also the existence of several very sensitive points at the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will mention Kostanica, Neum, Martin Brod, etc. in this report, not only have they not been elaborated, they are not even indicated. Such points also exist in inter-entity and entity areas and represent potential sources of new international and inter-entity incidents. That's why we're coming to the very point of putting this point on the agenda. I remind you that the bloody incidents with the national omen were also the main reason for the appointment of this session. Not a word of that in the report. And we are witnessing that in the past few days there has been a continuation of these and such incidents in Dravar, Mostar, Brcko, etc. Not a word about police corruption and a lot of other things that were supposed to be said here. 41 Let me also say a few details about this report. The first thing Mr Đedović said in an unusual way is the start of a report from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, the Republika Srpska report completely missed the topic. And I think we should introduce in this home a unique way of writing reports. That every time we don't write on a new one, one report from a particular resolution ministry should be written. As mentioned, let's not imagine that crime as far as the economy is concerned is going to Pale. There's government property all over the place, and crime and the discovery of such crime, not to say their processing is in the palaces. These Republika Srpska guys weren't even allowed to write. What to say about traffic, gentlemen. So we're not going to say that the increase in the mandates mentioned here in the report will lead to fewer accidents. We've created a system in which every cop behind the sign that marks 40 or 50 is waiting and punishing in this country. So let me just say that we've been messing with a Rumunija we thought was a failed state. With them when you enter the country writes – 70 in populated, 80 in uninhabited, 120 highways. And there are no more signs, and there are no cops that are squatting at you next to every sign. As far as I can tell from this report from Republika Srpska, they wrote that they regret that there are no central institutions. And then don't be surprised, those who come from Republika Srpska why this kind of material comes to people who are close to the High Representative and international organisations and say so here are the people you asked for. You're asking to unite the institutions, you're asking for state institutions to be centralized. Who allowed this kind of material to come here in the first place? If this material had been complete, it would have been easier to define the cause of such a poor security situation, which is actually a way to reach a quality solution. Of course, the question must be asked where is the solution? Gentlemen, we've stopped, let's stop lying to each other and lie to this wrong people. The police and the military cannot prevent the occurrence of these incidents and all responsibility lies with the politicians and the people who lead this country. When it comes to this high house because of its personal or party interests, some MPs are full of mouths, telling stories about a common life, civil society, Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and when they return home, Srbin say the matter of joining Republika Srpska is over. Hrvat agree with the international community and the Vatican the third entity, and Bošnjak that it is high time that the other two nations return to their queens and leave BiH to Bosniaks, of course the whole and whole and historic ones at AVNOJ's borders. All of the above-mentioned actors view current Bosnia and Herzegovina as only a temporary solution for their people. This is the duplicity of people who call themselves politicians making a fertile ground for the new international incidents that have led us to war. In my view, this is the main cause for most of the past, but for the vast majority of those crimes that will happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is unrealistic to expect that this will not happen in the future. But in the meantime, until we come to our senses, we become better people, I suggest the following conclusions: 42 Police in entities, I think we should take a number of measures. Some mentioned Bosnia and Herzegovina had over 6,000 police officers before this war. Now only the entity of Republika Srpska has so many. To equip and provide materially that police system. We can't expect a cop who's supposed to be in a fight with criminals to get hurt after that, or if he gets hurt in some other way, nobody's standing behind him. We must both be materially and politically behind such people. I suggest that the military potential be reduced and budget rebalanced to reduce the items for the military and give that money to the police. And of course, better co-operation is established and joint teams are formed with countries in the environment. At first, I said the report was incomplete and unprofessional. I will glasati against him, but I am aware that the majority of the assembly will vote anything delivered to the MPs, regardless of the quality of these documents. I suggested here this measure in the hope that you would accept it and possibly use it to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7561	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Let Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7562	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help thinking that we've really brought a serious topic into the context of political bickering between the position and the opposition. Well, it's not the opposition gentlemen that you're going to score political points on this, is it? I must remind you, some of them seem to have forgotten that this report, a speech about a federal M.O.P. report, refers to a period when you were just the one who did power. And that these figures are precisely for that period. And I'm not happy that it's like I'm not happy what's been going on the last few days and months that's been going on. But I must remind you of many terrible things at that time. The murder of a girl in Brcko, the murder in Drava and many others, Predor, etc. etc. And I don't think we should discuss this with the position of the opposition. It's from the position of something that's really a problem to contribute. I don't also think that the problem with the parties who are in power is that they put this on the agenda and that now they don't have the strength to open this issue. And the previous government was two years old and didn't have the strength to put it on the agenda and talk about this seriously. Some belonged to that government then, some to this one, but the fact is that this report and what we're doing today have no result, at least not what I thought they would have. I thought that today we from here should send a strong message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to harmonize with the victims of every form of crime and terrorism and that we are on the side of those who suffer the consequences of what this report says. And not in this one, but in those who didn't come here. I thought today we should look into the real truth and say what the causes are, and believe me, the causes aren't as simple as some around here are trying to show them. They are much more complex and are not the result of one choice, the other, one government, the other, the same at both levels, different at all levels etc. etc. They're much more complex. And that's why I'm not happy with this material. I don't want to justify the College, but please we've forced the College to schedule this session the way it's scheduled. We forced them to do it as soon as possible. Why hasn't it been done before? So please 10 days, so on and so forth. And then we schedule a session and I resent it, we schedule a session unprepared. Please, the Council of Ministers should file a report, not an entity ministry. And it's not a security aspect of what we got from the two of the three wanted, and it says, safety information. No, gentlemen, this is information about the state of public order, peace, crime and security and traffic. That's what you used to be called. And that's how it is now. We don't have exactly what we were looking for, and that's what we were talking about – the reason why we scheduled the session. And it's not just that, that's why I said a lot more. That is why I cannot accept the Council of Ministers' finding that the Council of Ministers did not debate before this came to the agenda. So I ask you nicely, so who will argue and when they will argue, if not before Parliament's meeting. The Council of Ministers should have discussed and said that he couldn't make the information, because he lacked it, that, that, and that. Not that he doesn't want to argue because he didn't get the information. Come on, please. Furthermore, the Council of Ministers did not take advantage of the sources he had. Well, he's got the Bosnia and Herzegovina Protection Agency, so he's got the DGS, so he's got Interpol. There are people under their jurisdiction. We do not criticise them, and we criticise those who are not under the authority of the Council of Ministers, which is the Entite Ministry of the Interior. Of course, I do not justify at all that no report has been delivered when requested. But don't ask that the entity MUP report be a reason, not having a report to be a reason why the Council of Ministers doesn't make quality material and a team or even not to warn the College that they can't call a session because they're not ready for this session. And obviously without the material, we're not ready for a serious discussion about these issues either. In different ways we realized the prospect of this session. I said how I figured it out. Some have realised that this is an opportunity to change the concept of Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the difficult situation in the area of security. Some have realized that it is necessary to change the entire security policy because this situation is as it is, perhaps worse, perhaps even worse even if all aspects of security were taken apart from what is listed here. I think we will find it very difficult to come to quality conclusions, and by quality conclusions, it implies conclusions that will result in improvement of the situation. I fear that our conclusions will move in the sense that everyone who has done so and that and that the Council of Ministers should rob the situation in this area and propose measures in accordance with their own competences. It seems to me that somewhere around here we can spin, because obviously, on the basis of information and all of this, we're not in a better position to bring it. In the end, I am truly sorry that one difficult situation has felt one part of this parliament as an opportunity for something completely different. I sincerely hope that the citizens will not remember it, but that they will remember the desire and will of all of us that everything that is said here is not said in the future is not happening. Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7563	Thank you. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare and then Mrs. Ljiljan Milićević. And that's how we ended the discussion with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7564	Dear Chairman, members of the College, Minister Čolak, colleagues and fellow Members. Let me take a brief look at the topic that is today ahead of us with full respect for the victims of a drastically deteriorated security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The victims of tragedies, whether they had signs of a terrorist act or a disgusting crime, an unhappiness or unfortunate circumstances. This is a termology that could be heard in statements by top officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With special attention, I listened to the opening statement of Mr. Terzić's Chairman-in-Office Council, who gave a good part of the answer to some of the questions raised by fellow MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. I am surprised by Lagumdzija's discussion, as the chairman particularly apostropheeded at the beginning that the topic was too wide-ranging. Whoever wants to deal with the security situation is well aware that this involves three segments, security, internal and external, political aspects of security, especially in the context of current political events in the world and an economic aspect with a particular focus on organised crime and corruption issues. Furthermore, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, also called for his obligations towards Koelgi's House of Representatives, who again had obligations towards this House in accordance with Articles 47 and 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. In the chronology of events that have just been cited by colleague Lagumdžija, where he has called on deadlines of over 2 months, which is true, I will remind you that at that time there has not yet been a appointment of the Council of Ministers to provide adequate information to this home. We only had the appointed chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers was elected only on 13 January and the minister of justice, and the minister and deputy minister of justice also relevant for security issues, alongside the Ministry of Security and Others, at the last session. It is therefore understandable why neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers nor the College of this House could manage the obligations of the Rules of Procedure and convene a meeting within 10 days or 15 days. We could also hear from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, that at his request he was addressed to entity governments and the government of Brcko District, who received three information from different content, which is why he decided not to convene a special meeting of the Council of Ministers on these issues. I can understand this somewhat from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but I certainly can't justify it. A special argument that this would show the attitude of the president of the Republika Srpska government towards the Council of Ministers and the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Perhaps this is the best example of that political context of the debate on security issues. Republika Srpska's government has provided information on the movement and residence of foreigners. This is certainly important for the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially if the information concerns the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although by foreigners we mean those, all those who are nationals of other countries. 45 From all of this, it is quite understandable that the possible story of security today comes down to some aspects of ethnic and district security and that the Bosnian Herzegovic public should know. I must also point out my surprise at the discussion of my colleague Đurković with a return to the authority of this parliament and state institutions as a whole on security issues. From that, it's quite a logical question - until when will we deal with issues of the competent level of authority for debates as people are killed, property destroyed, drastically violated human rights which, I remind you, are universal, not municipal, cantonal, entity or district? The security in Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with this parliament is not a matter of statistics that is one part ahead of us, but a key political, security and economic issue concerning the overall engagement of all of us. Why do we have unfortunate events that are obviously the product of still living concepts of ethnic clean spaces and whether one of these confessions escapes, concealing the so-called. incidents, whether these are games, book promotions, individual cases of attacks on returnees and property, religious motives, prison riots, etc., different approaches to important, different approaches to current political events in the world. The sharpest views of the individual clubs of this house today were also addressed to the international community. They usually come well, sometimes for inaction, and that's probably why some have found some of their arguments, and they know it best. But I'm asking you if the OHRs, SFORs and so on are responsible for the obvious dramatic deterioration of the overall situation, the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What it is to do and what to make the overall security situation change for the better. These are just some of the questions that I have been brought up to date with discussions on this topic, particularly in support of the proposal for a conclusion on behalf of the HDZ Club, I recall the debate on this topic, proposed by Mr Zorić. In the preparation of full information from the Council of Ministers to an interested group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and others in co-operation with the entity-level resolution can certainly be the latest report on the state of human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has formed the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss this topic much more useful material than those who are before us today. I hope that in the next round of debate on this topic we will have more useful information than this and the material that is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7565	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić and get Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7566	Mr. Chairman and fellow MPs, I'll be brief, I can see that it's already a concentration for all of us that we're tired and tired. I wouldn't take that much longer. I will not enter this report because I do not consider it appropriate for today's theme, the subject of today's session. With full understanding and explanation of the situation with the Council of Ministers and their capabilities, 46 or not with the possibility of a quality report being prepared, but with one hope that within a reasonable period of time we will really have it on the benches and that we will be able to conduct a quality discussion on the subject. With that, I said I won't be much longer, and we have made our views clear through the club, namely the views and conclusions and suggestions of our club's conclusions. However, with a few facts, I may want to point to some phenomena and perhaps support all the things that were spoken about. Not wanting to reduce any crimes, no acts of terrorism, or any illegal act, the cause for us for this session was the monstrous murder of the Anđelić family. So I'd like to look a little bit more at this sequence of events that may have preceded the Dayton Agreement over here. I will try to perhaps only to remember some details, because I do not have services that would give me...quality information, but unfortunately the murder of the Anđelić family is only one in a series of crimes committed against Hrvat as the fewth nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Remember the murder of a returnee in Central Bosnia, especially the murder of police officers; explosives planted on the arrival of svet otac papa under a bridge that he was supposed to pass; then the murder of the federal chief of internal affairs of the late Joza Leotar; a car bomb in Mostar; and a series of other violence that have been committed saying which at this point is hard to remember because we have no prepared data. I would disagree with those who claim that preventing return is the basic motive of such actions, or not. I am primarily of the opinion that the main reason is hiding in the political background, because through these, clear political messages appear to be being sent. This may also be apparent through explanations when these events occur. So we had a statement when there was a car bomb in Mostar that the Hrvat did it. We know who made that statement. When Perica Bilić was killed, they also know that the Hrvat did it, but they don't know who until today. When Leotar was killed we also witnessed the construction of a monstrous process under the pretext that the Hrvat killed their minister. The results of the investigation and the verdict we know today, we're all witnesses. The Anđelić family, a tragedy when it happened, we remember, was not unfortunately long ago, we remember a statement by the federal interior minister at the time. And all of this if we add to the cancellation of the free will expressed in the 2000 elections of the Croatian people in relation to disrespecting political will, then sending black hoods to the Federal MUP to Herzegovica Bank. And if we look at a whole series of all these moves, I think that a very clear message is being broadcast about the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is where it belongs. And we say we want a country with three equal constituent nations. Supporting these findings leading towards the construction of security institutions and the institutionalisation of the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that one of the main causes is precisely a political issue and that there should be open cards on the agenda and that issue and try to find a solution that will guarantee equal rights for all three peoples and not only on paper, but real and institutional ones. In that sense, I am expressing hope that one day, as serious people, we will get such materials and suggestions and discuss them. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7567	Mrs. Milićević. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7568	Gentlemen Chairman, gentlemen ministers, dear colleagues, the right to tell you I had no intention of answering, but listening to a number of different discussions, I just want to briefly draw attention to a few things. First someone here was talking about three ghettos. Dear gentlemen, I come from Republika Srpska and come to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are all here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it's an inappropriate term and it's exactly one of those words that we're raising tensions like this. Because one of the speakers said we all arrived from three ghettos. And you know what the ghetto is and I'm asking that we don't use that rhetoric, especially it's not suitable for one of these sessions. I also want to say that a lot of what I wanted to say was said by counterpart Hadžiahmetović in her opening statement and I have full understanding for Mr. Terzić and Mr. Čolak, as well as by the ministries in entities, because all of this was happening at some point in the constitution and government and some other things. I must also say that it is my pleasure to tell you that there has been a point of the agenda in the Republika Srpska Parliament today - the security of returnees, that certain conclusions have been adopted and that I should also take the opportunity to suggest that it would be good for the BiH Federation Parliament to also take up strength and put on the agenda, therefore - an analysis of the situation and the security of returnees in the Federation of BiH. And only at that moment will Mr. Terzić and Čolak and we here all together be able to see what these are the conclusions of the entity governments and what it is that we all do together in that field. So what was done today in Republika Srpska where it is and I respect what they did at the third session, so when they were established they found it appropriate to look into the eyes and say that and there are the first information and I hope that for the next time we will have information from Republika Srpska, because it has passed, the point of the agenda has already been. I also want to react here, I think Mr Jahić, I don't know how he reacted to this report, so he says Serbian -- not Serbian. So see if you have 118 planted explosions in how to say how much it applies to the citizens of the returnees, if you don't say 18 non-Serbian animals, then 18 is planted. What's this about? Well, it's just that we've really become more of a Europe than we really should have been. It is that our position has been used, so the roads of drugs, human trafficking, the rest have been tied to Europe before Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's our tragedy. And that's what we have to do to do certain things, I think they already do, to cut off those organized crime. They've been tied up before than we've been tied up in Europe. That's what we need to look into our eyes and help our unsubs and this ministry that's now formed to do everything we can to cut it off. I also want to say that today we poured ash, and we were in Strasbourg and certain materials, and here a month and a half ago, I asked Mr. Eždaun if the bottom was touched in Bosnia and Herzegovina? And then he said nicely that we've been well out of sight for these seven years, and today we're conscious or unconsciously not going to turn gentlemen and look at the day we were signed the Dayton Agreement. We're far from it. And it's not enough that someone doesn't say how I praise, but I have to tell you, you see, we were told there that no war conflict in the world has reached more returns than in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let's not pour 48 with ash, it was there, a lot of things have been done, but we can't be satisfied with that. We need to make certain conclusions to make it even better. The fact is it's done, it's done a lot, and the world admits it's done. I insist on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7569	Thank you, too. Since I'm out of press releases, and if nobody's answering their calls anymore, I'm closing the debate. There were also suggestions in writing from individual clubs to take a break. I suggest we move on the next way. I'm taking a break by 4:00. At 4:00, we'll meet back here at this session to continue the session. By 3:30, let the MPs freshen up, or lunch, who should have lunch, and at 3:30, I call a session of the Expansive College up here upstairs. I'd like to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers if he can, if he can't, then certainly Deputy and Security Minister Mr. Čolak to join us at that session of the College at 15:30. It'd be good for both of us. So the Extended College is these colleges, 8 colleges at 15.30 on this floor up, in 16 we continue our work in order to naturally draw up proposals for conclusions. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] I'd like to ask. What's the status of the quorum? I'd like the MPs to come into the O.R. I'm sorry this break took a little longer. Meanwhile, the extended College of the House of Representatives and the Expansive College have practically agreed on the conclusions, in fact the four conclusions you have received have been agreed, just the conclusions that should reflect the essence of today's debate, and I will read the conclusions, the proposal actually concludes on the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 1. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's representative home appreciates that the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is unsatisfactory, and that this issue will have a priority in the work of this home. 2. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers to propose measures to improve security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including a document -- Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy, as soon as possible, within 3 months. 3. The House of Representatives will speed up activities, elevate activities at the establishment of a joint committee of both homes with a security policy and to control the legality of the work of the Information and Protection Agency and 4. The House of Representatives is determined to insist on improving the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and protecting fundamental human rights and freedoms. 49 This would be, ladies and gentlemen, four conclusions that were agreed at a session of the Enlarged College where all political parties were represented. It is understood, of course, that a stenogram with today's discussion and with everything that is said here will also be delivered to the Council of Ministers for further work and for further action. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for these conclusions. Here you go. If no one answers for a word. It's Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Lagumdžija is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7570	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests, I think these are conclusions on the line that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, security policy and security of what is called a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not being more radically applied, I think, apart from having an unprepared session and except that we've got the materials that we've got that this is still a series of conclusions that are on the line 'do not rock the boat'. I am against these conclusions, and here I am saying that I will be against these conclusions. I think the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in terms of security policy, does not give this parliament so much comfort to go with such conclusions. The situation is much worse and more complex. It is demanding both this parliament and the Council of Ministers. But since there is no will or willingness, these are parliamentary majority solutions, and please don't argue nicely that it can bring it, but I want to say that I will be against these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7571	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7572	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is not disputed that these conclusions, to a lesser or greater extent, with some minor changes here, could be accepted as part of what we need to conclude. However, today's theme and today's session is too serious to be satisfied with the conclusions that practically cover a single little segment that actually puts us in a position that if we can't put it out loud, we are aware of the fact that today's time has been spent madly. That is exactly why I think it would be good to think once again that, if we are already trying to act in a way constructively based on these conclusions that are given here, that, in the framework of the conclusion number 2. Nevertheless, the Parliamentary Assembly is showing itself, our assessment of this lack of suitable material for today's session and that this deadline that you have given from 3 months to reduce that deadline to a month. So if we have at least a month from now, we and the Council of Ministers have time to prepare a serious debate with concrete conclusions that, some of which will certainly be armed for 3 months and are encouraged in a certain way and to encourage the institutions of the system above all, the judicial authorities, courts and prosecutors to do their job without delay and without pressure. 50 I am saying this because it is necessary, however, that if we get at least one material in a month that would bring more light into the whole problem, because in the final sequence you have two materials that we have received today, the two materials that we have received, you can even see that the materials from Republika Srpska on the side and the material from Federacje on the side of two of the same events are given brutally different data for the state of BiH. In order not to remain inexplicable what I said you can see it in Republika Srpska material that in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2000, 50,000 were illegal immigration, and that in 2002 it was reduced to 10,000 at BiH level. And federal material also tells BiH that in 2000 there were 30,000, that there are now 3,000. From what you can, I'm just stating as an illustration. Such data can be even more appreciated by the information that you have provided that would certainly enlarge one material that could serve as the basis for the real program of activities that you are talking about in 3 months. So in that light, Mr. Chairman, I would like to appeal once again that for the seriousness of today's entire event, we will try to go in the middle of each other with this proposal of conclusions. Otherwise, we don't dispute these conclusions, but we find them insufficient and that's why we can't support them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7573	So, what's your concrete suggestion on this text? Now we're discussing, this is a conclusion debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7574	On the grounds of the conclusion. What else was it supposed to be? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7575	This is a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. What are your concrete suggestions? Where, what, in these conclusions should we change or add? I'm thinking of putting it to a vote that you suggest Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7576	You know what, Mr. Džaferović, very interesting, you usually listen to me very carefully. Take the stenogram. You can see exactly what I intervened in conclusion number two, what I said at the beginning, what I said in the second row at three months is a month. I've said all of this and conclusion four, that there is a need to add any encouragement to these institutions. I can make a particular formulation, if there's any point in talking about it. But if you ask me like this what I suggested, after I made a very concrete suggestion, then I'm afraid we're going round and round and there's no need to move on. I thank you, but I really tried to be as constructive as possible today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7577	Thank you. Mr. Živković. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7578	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I hold in my hand the accessible presentation of Mr. Terzić in which I can say that behind the word "responsibility" which is bold, or blacked out another 10 times is the word "responsibility" and that it will be the principle of the government's work. If we all agreed in this House that these reports were deficiting, that the government had not done its job well, then it is logical that in one of the conclusions Parliament also says about it. I therefore propose that somewhere in the conclusions, the following be put in place: – that information was obtained from the Council of Ministers on the agenda of the Security Policy of BiH, it was not adequately prepared and this time Parliament expressed its dissatisfaction with the lack of awareness and intricacies of the Council of Ministers, asking the Chairman-in-Office of the Council to draw lessons and ask for responsibility for this failure in its ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-04-0.u7579	Okay. Thank you. Who else wants to talk? So let's go to the vote. I'm closing the debate because no one's answering for a word. We're moving on to a plea. We have practically four new proposals on this proposal. Three proposals were made by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and that's why I asked him for a precise formulation so that I could make that clear. So Mr. Lagumdžija, like Mr. Živković, feels that Parliament should show in one of the conclusions that information from the Council of Ministers, or that the materials that we had today are therefore not enough to discuss and that it is therefore practically responsible for the Council of Ministers. As far as I can tell, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Živković are concerned. So that's the same proposal. I bring them together in one and I ask Parliament which, in order to put such a conclusion into these conclusions? Who's in? How much? All right. Who's against it? Who's against it? Did you count it? Yes, it is. Who's being held back? Okay. There's a general majority. We're moving to a statement by entity for this amendment. Who is from the Federation for this amendment that was proposed? Thank you very much. Who is from Republika Srpska for this amendment? Write it down here. So from the Federation of BiH 10 for. So it's passed from the Federation. From Republika Srpska 7, he also passed in Republika Srpska. 52 I therefore conclude that these conclusions are thus added to the conclusion that the materials for today’s session were not sufficient. Please. _____________? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] No, no, this is an amendment to the conclusions, sir. Please, wait a minute. This is a proposal for conclusions, so this is a proposal for conclusions, and these are amendments to the conclusions that you're proposing. Please, nice. Let's go to the next one. So who's to cut the three-month period to a month in point two? Who's that? Okay, thank you. Who's against this amendment? Okay. Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. Give me the results. We have to go after the entities. I'm asking from the Federation who's behind this conclusion? From the Federation, I ask who's in favor. Did you count it? Yes, it is. Thank you. From Republika Srpska who's in favour? Okay. Thank you. Okay. How much is it from the Federation? So I figure the conclusion has an entity majority, so it's 30 days instead of 3 months. And there was another suggestion of conclusion, right? In the sense that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina encourages competent judicial authorities to do their job in accordance with the Constitution and law. That's it. I don't know. That's what you're suggesting. That's what it's supposed to be. [[Common discussion]]
