ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u944	Dear envoys, delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of the media, all of you present, I warmly welcome. I am opening the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, all delegates to the House of Peoples are present. For today's 11th session, I suggest the next agenda. Number one. Responsible envoys' questions and envoys' questions, 2. A record from the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3. Envoy Tomislav Lim (a) Analysis of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal institutions and the determination of obligations that must be respected on the basis of international standards and relevant conventions. (b) How many returnees, names and last name on return to private residences are constantly employed in working enterprises, Elektroprivreda, Post office and telecommunications Herceg Bosnia, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in health homes in the following municipalities; Zvornik, Visegrad, Derventa, Teslic, Bugojno, Travnik, Kakanj, Stolac, Glamoc and Capljina, 4. The envoy's question to the envoy, Osman Brk. We have a new situation here, in the meantime, since the agenda session of the House of Peoples, the answer to this envoy's question has arrived. So here the question is whether we will respect that fact and withdraw this point and the MP if he is not, or an envoy, unless he is satisfied with the answer to ask Mr. Čović again. 5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Communication Act pursuant to Article 100 Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6. Declaration by the People's House on a request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in BiH under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 7. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina aviation law pursuant to Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Review of the Proposal for a document Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Policy, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2 9. Information from Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Certificate on the work of municipal electoral commissions and voter registration centres. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Since there are no reports, here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u946	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, the 8th item of the agenda is entitled Consideration of the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina security situation, the promoter, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. The Bureau, meanwhile, came to the House of Representatives on July 18th and to us that the session's agenda is to discuss the Security Policy document and the agenda states that the proposal is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The presidency has denied, not a proposal for a Security Policy document, but a Council of Ministers. The Bureau is one of the institutions that is considering this document. So we have two documents. We have Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, which was created and created as a document in December 2002, as it says here. We have information on the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The document, which was created on 24.02 and in January 2003, which we also received today, and given this confusion that was created, I would say by paying no attention to the officers who are doing this correspondence, which is quite a confusion, because these are two different documents, very different and since this document has arrived quite late, I suggest that this item of the agenda be downloaded for those reasons, to be left for the next session and to take a little consideration of this correspondence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u947	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u948	Dear members of the College, ladies and gentlemen representatives of international institutions and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fellow envoys, I personally think that a mistake has been subdued here, and I have realized that today we will discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy document under this agenda. It is a document that has therefore passed a certain procedure and there are all the elements that we are discussing today. I propose that under point 8. correction be made and that it be formulated to consider the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Policy Document.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u949	I thank Mr. Limov. There was a mistake in writing the security situation and I corrected my own security policy. But I would ask Mr. Secretary Tomić to explain this situation to us. Here you go, Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u950	First, I would like to say that we received material from the Presidency, 02/07, which is the delivery of conclusions and the proposal for a document on the security policy of BiH, which the Presidency leaves for consideration and adoption. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the committee responsible for the House of Peoples, discussed this material in 18/07, is a Plan of Measures and Actions to increase, excuse me just to see this, Security Policy in BiH on 18th of July, and she, who delivered this report to the House, proposing that 3 be accepted. However, a letter came from the Bureau on 21 July informing them that the presidency is not a proposal for this material. It was the same after our session, so now it's the presidency thing, they've delivered those two letters to us. One delivers to us for consideration and adoption, as promoters and later after considering our commission that they are not proposing. The Bureau provided us with material and, as such, they are the promoters for us and the Commission has considered the Bureau's material as such.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u951	I thank Mr. Tomić. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u952	Dear members of the College, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, around this part of the agenda, I really think that there is this confusion, what Dr Genjac said, because when you look at the date under which the information was sent, it is written there that it was from December and then later from the second year. I think there really is a lot of confusion in there and that this should be prepared very well for the next session and that it is known who is the promoter and that it is known who is behind it and that the most responsible man comes and stands behind it and explains it to us, corrupts and gives us answers to our questions that are certainly going to be a lot. I don't know who could actually give us answers to those questions here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u953	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Šiljegović
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u954	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, since I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission who, as the secretary says at his session held on 18 July 2003, considered the conclusion and the proposal for a document of the security policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose proposal was adopted unanimously by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Presidency and we, the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, adopted this document. Since the document follows afterwards that the Presidency is not a proposing, then this Constitutional and Legal Commission decision for me is not valid, while this confusion, as a fellow Genjac says, is not correct and for this reason I suggest that Mr. Genjac's proposal be accepted to withdraw this today from our House's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u955	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u956	I welcome everything and want to say to this occasion that it is a very important document for Bosnia and Herzegovina and a very important document, normally for every country. Given that confusions have arisen and defacto MPs have been brought into one situation that they can't make, and that I can't be sure that they can make a quality decision, I suggest that we immediately agree that for the next session, which will be held in September, we put this item on the agenda and that, while previous secretaries, the secretaries of Parliament and the other people in charge of this job are also connected to both the predsjedništvo and the Council of Ministers and that we know the defacto and who is responsible and what document 4 we are discussing and the fact that we can bring clear consciences to a very important document for Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u957	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u958	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to say a few words since Mr. Šiljegović as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission said what he said. I won't deny what he said, it's his right to say what he wants, but so Dom knows this, exactly how it moved. The Constitutional and Legal Commission received material as an authorised commission, and discussed the material proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency in 1807, estimated it could accept it and put it in a regular parliamentary procedure. At a time when the Constitutional and Legal Commission was discussing this material, the Bureau was indeed proposing this material. In a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on behalf of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, an adviser at the presidency, Mr Ante Grgić, who informed him, gave an opening statement at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. What happened later, which is why the Presidency gives up this material, or does not want to be its proposer, I would not go into it. That's what this house should take care of. So there was a valid proposal and the authorising officer delivered the material and the Constitutional and Legal Commission then made a perfectly valid statement at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u959	I thank Mr Filipović. One question here for all of you. The House of Representatives considered this document in the same form, or by an authorised proposing at the time of the Bureau, whether something had changed now that the document had then possibly been accepted by the Council of Ministers as its own and proposed it. I don't know what's really the point here. Here's some of ours. Here's Mr. Slavko Marin advisor to the Bureau, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u960	Thank the president for giving me the opportunity to speak. I welcome the College, I welcome Mr. Representatives and Ministers at the Council of Ministers and Representatives of the International Community. I will say what the procedure foresees regarding the adoption of this document, and I am unable to speak what the secretariat both did and what was in the document as an accompanying document of the real document security policy. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency is one of the institutions as well as this House and the House of Representatives that adopts such a document. Due to some, this is now my assumption and judgment of the reserve related to the procedures which were pending the creation of the overall concept of this document, it is likely that in the formulation of the conclusion created by the Secretariat of the Presidency it has reached such a conclusion that the Bureau basically accepts this document and recommends that the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina accept the document as such. The author of this document, the proposer of this document, is the Council of Ministers who, in its composition, have these capacities, has the Ministry of Security, we have a Permanently 5 military committee that have been working on such a document. The presidency neither has such capacity, nor will it work such a document nor will it be its author. It's an institution that adopts. The solution from this situation now is to refer the secretary of this Parliament, the Secretariat of the Presidency to be seen in the procedure of this, according to me formally to remove this procedure, and to have the document found at the consideration of this home so that the House might take a position on it. It would be good because of the overall situation in reform and because of the message to the International Community and the world that we really are for one reform approach, that we want to shape the concept of defence at the state level, to consider this document as soon as possible, but if these procedural errors and procedural differences are such a nature that they simply put beyond the possibility, outside the system that this document can be considered today, here MPs will decide how it will eventually be. So I repeat the Presidency is an institution that adopted a document like this Parliament and the Presidency is not proposing this document. I'm not going to enter what's in the text and in the signature of the Secretariat of our Presidency as an accompanying document to this, to this home and the House of Representatives. Thank you. I'd be glad if I tried, at least a little bit to make this situation work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u961	I thank Mr. Marin. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u962	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, respected fellow representatives of the International Community, the media and all others present, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you and briefly express my view on this matter. Obviously, we have the next situation. Is it, like, we as Dom have a situation, therefore, brand-new with a statement by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency that it is not a proposing. Whether the House of Representatives that may have been considering this document had the same letter as the Bureau or her, I really don't know. Even if it is, it will in no way be of any use to us. So, we have a situation that is absolutely necessary for such an important question that we know exactly who the Proposer is, that this document should be presented, that the motionary should explain the document and be in a position to give further reasons, answers to questions and everything else that is necessary for this home to take its stand. There is no dilemma that this House plays an important role and must play an important role in this process as part of Parliament and part of the structure of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, everywhere in the world, security policy involves several very important segments. So it involves defence, police forces, intelligence and foreign policy. It's a very precise definition of security policy. There is no dilemma that we can discuss such a serious topic and such an imaginary conversation if we do not adequately present the institutions doing these jobs. For this reason it is very clear that we cannot open the debate on this issue and we cannot discuss it today if it is still not clear and formal, although as far as I am concerned, I do not think it is clear, obviously that the Council of Ministers will eventually appear, but we cannot decide today. So, as a promoter, it's important to us who's proposing that he shows up here. In that sense, the proposal is to remove this point from the agenda today. Only possible, but it would also take two. 6 First, let the College of the House resolve this issue as soon as possible in consultation with the competent institutions and secondly, to agree today that all the concerns on this issue should be resolved by the next session and that this point should be one of the points for the next session of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u963	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to talk? Here, let's try to get out of this situation the next way. So here are the reasons why we've heard this point of the agenda and, of course, when most of us think so, then we need to take this point down and remove these dilemmas for the next session but here they already seem to be removed and if they're actually just formal nature now that means the Council of Ministers shows up as a proposer of this document. I don't know if it makes sense to go back to this procedure one, commission work or not, because there is no change to the document, but here's a good thing I'm going to give the statement of this proposal means and I am giving a statement to the proposal that point 8 of the exemption bearing the title Considering the proposal for a document of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy, to be removed from the agenda of today's session. Who's up for a proposal like this? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? With 11 votes for, without votes against, with four abstentions, we have decided to remove this item from the agenda. In addition to this conclusion, it means that until the next session, the College is tasked with resolving all these concerns with the proposal, so it will be the Council of Ministers. Another dilemma here was number four. Mr. Osman Brk's envoy's question. The new situation is that the answer has arrived in the meantime and I am asking Mr. Brk which is his thinking, and whether he is satisfied with the answer or not. If it's not to ask him again, that question or to insist on discussing this point. Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u964	First, I am very sad that I had to ask that question, and I am very sad that I have been waiting for months to answer that question, and I am very sad that the honourable member of the presidency, Mr. Čović, did not answer the question. I did not question the head of the cabinet, but a member of the presidency of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I did not get an answer from a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I mean, I'm not happy with the answer, but since there's a new situation, I don't know if we're going to discuss it now or at the agenda point, I'm going to have some other suggestions and other members of the club, so we're probably going to take some kind of a stand for it. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u965	I thank Mr. Brk. I understood this in a way that Mr. brkati was not satisfied with the answer, that he would again probably ask the question and that we could rule out item 4. If I've got it all wrong, here you go, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u966	The chairman, fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the International Community, media, guests, therefore, in order to clarify the situation that we have the answer that after a long time has been given to counterpart Brka, is not the response of the member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's current presidency, but of the head of the cabinet. Of course, personally and personally, as well as colleagues from our club, we are disappointed by the fact that after months of expectations of Mr Čović's response, there was a response that unfavors only fellow MP Osman Brk, but also this home and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It wasn't Wednesday's decision, it wasn't Wednesday's interview, it wasn't gospodin Čović's Kabinet act, it was an act, a personal act by a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. However, this response does not actually meet the basic formal requirement for us, and it cannot be accepted as such. However, we do not believe that Mr Čović intended to demean fellow Brk, the Bošnjak klub in this House, the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly, and therefore we want to understand it as a technical mistake, which needs to be corrected. However, this is not only about the accession or not about the response, but about the fact that the lack of response has forced this item of the agenda, it is about the refusal to accept this response or not to accept the answer as an answer. So it's not that fellow brkati isn't happy with the answer, but what we got isn't really an answer. Here we are now faced with the need to request again or with a debate today, to keep this obligation or to maintain the obligation of the College to have this item on the agenda at the next session, because we didn't actually get the answer. And in this sense, of course, the possibility that Mr. Čović agrees with the text of the reply that his cabinet chief sent us is likely to confirm not to exclude such an option, but only then will there be grounds for an adequate, appropriate or decent debate on the issue that counterpart Brka has asked even somewhere else as I recall in April. That's what it's about for the College and for us, here's the situation I'm going to say with the rulebook and it's completely set. We can talk today about this point, discuss it, but the debate doesn't really free the House of Peoples or the College. The obligation is, in fact, to discuss this one, when the answer, or to discuss it because, and next time, if Mr. Čović's response does not arrive in the meantime. As long as the answer is valid, credible, full-time does not come this College is obliged to treat it as a full point of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u967	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Is there anyone else who would like to speak at this point? I'll admit I didn't understand the idea. Here's why I didn't. First, if we put the dot on the agenda, then I don't think there's any answer. If I think there's an answer then there's no agenda point, but again if we're not satisfied again, we're looking for a response. So we can't go both ways. We can't talk today and again next week 8 again talk about it being a topic, a item on the agenda, so it's going to be a permanent topic of the agenda. I'm sorry, but that's what it sounds like to me. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u968	I'm sorry I didn't make myself clear. The answer, Mr. Chairman, is gone. That's what the debate is about. Today's debate, this one, does not exclude me from saying so the need or possibility of this, of putting this same piling back on the agenda if, in the meantime, colleague brkati does not get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u969	Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u970	Please, colleagues, let's compare the facts. It is very clear and precise in the Rules of Procedure if the answer to the parliamentary question is not given within 30 days that this item of the agenda becomes a mandatory point at the next meeting of the House of Peoples. The answer to the parliamentary question, or the Legislative question of Mr Brk, has not yet come to this moment. It was a mandatory point three or four months ago, and then we agreed to wait a little longer. We waited and the College placed that point as a mandatory point in today's session and today's agenda of this House of Nations session. That's the facts. Following the establishment of the agenda by the College, a document was signed by the head of the Bureau’s Office. The question of delegates Osman Brk was asked explicitly and directly nominally and personally to Mr Čović. The paper in the paper we received states in the third person the answer of the head of the Kabinet, Mr. Covic did not say that, Mr. Čović did not mean it, Mr. Čović etc. Therefore, the delegate does not consider that he has received an answer to the asked question and therefore remains all the facts and assumptions that put this point as necessary and imperative for today's session agenda. Within the point of the Bosniak Club that has discussed this situation will present proposals on how to get out of this situation and what needs to be done in view of the seriousness of the claims we do not claim to have made by Čović, but are written in the Washington Post and on the consequences that are more difficult written in Washington Post, therefore in view of the consequences, the gravity of the consequences, we have considered this issue as part of the agenda, which is now mandatory point of the agenda, we will present our proposals and how to resolve, but from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure and the situation, please this is the point of the agenda and there is no need to further discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u971	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about this point? Since there are no more reports, we'll get to the bottom of this. So we have a proposal that the document that arrived in response is not considered an answer, and if it is an answer, and that means that this point remains as a item of the agenda. You've all got the answer. I'm calling for a plea. 9 Who is for Mr. Osman Brk to be placed on the agenda. Who's in? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u972	Let me remind you of the business provisions. At the time when the College sets up the agenda and the regular agenda points can be established, only the item of the agenda can be voted on, it can no longer be voted on for the agenda point to be, but can only be voted on on a proposal to remove some point for certain reasons. So we here have a proposal chairing to take down the agenda and we can make a statement about it. So it can't be a question of who it is that she's already on the agenda. Just and explicitly according to the Rules of Procedure, who is in order for the agenda to be taken down.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u973	I thank the gentleman. I call upon the secretary to interpret the situation. Tajnić, I'm just asking a little silence for the secretary to interpret.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u974	What Mr. Genjac said, that's what it is. This is the established agenda and is not voted on at all unless there are changes and additions or new agenda points are added, or to give up a certain agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u975	I thank you, so the proposed agenda item remains in the draft agenda. Are there any more applications to discuss the agenda? If you're not here, I'm calling for a plea. I'm going to repeat one more time for the stenogram, so point number one remains 2, 3, stays four, stays five, six, stays the eighth point, we've already taken it off the agenda of the 9th station 8. It's the agenda. Who's on the agenda like this? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? One, thank you. Since with 14 votes in favour and one abstention, we adopted the agenda. Let's take the agenda. Under the first point, Ad. 1. I call on the envoys who have received the answers to be heard about the answers. If there is a need, of course, if not, then here's the second part of the point of the envoy's question. Here you go, Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u976	Mr. Chairman and fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I, as chairman of the Committee on Financial Administrative Affairs of the House of Nations, ask the question to the Council of Ministers, why the budget rebalance for 2003 has not been prepared to this day, when we are already at the 10th adoption of the budget, means that we have given the Council of Ministers to prepare it for us and ask if this is not the answer for this to be the point of the agenda at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u977	Thank you. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u978	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the delegate's question is heading in the next direction. On Dobrinja I and IV about 100 apartments in attics are mostly 99% owned by Srbin. The attic was built at a time when the settlements were administratively owned by Republika Srpska, i.e. the municipality of Serbia's Ilija with regular documentation. The municipality of Novi Grad, after Sheridan's arbitration decision, accepted the effective state and documentation of the Serbian Ilidja municipality. The Italian grant restores the heating network for all pre-war dwellings in these settlements, the attics are not covered. The apartments have been bought and are privately owned as well as the attic. Why the donation is distributed selectively, for one there are for others who are accidentally Srbin no funds. The works are carried out by the Sarajevo Toplans and are part of the question whether all the apartments, if not why they are not, are not wanted for donations and for attics when they are regular and legal in the same status as pre-war apartments. I'm giving the delegation question to the members of the College............................................................................... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u979	Mr. Limov. The Council of Ministers of Boško, however, would say so to the Council of Ministers, so we'll see who's in charge, which ministry. Do we agree, Mr. Šiljegović, whether or not we have addressed the Council of Ministers. Thank you, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u980	Thank you. I'm going to take the occasion today and ask the envoy's question to our college. The question is: for what reason or why the College of the Peoples in cooperation with the College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not prepare a proposal for a declaration inviting citizens, economic, state and other entities to purchase domestic ones. Almost three and a half months ago at our 7th session, held on 21st of May this year, we adopted information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibilities, and adopted a conclusion that we tasked our colleague to work together with the College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina to produce a proposal for a declaration to appeal to citizens, economic operators and state and other institutions to buy domestic products and use domestic services. It would be our kind of help, our country's economy, and of course I appreciate that this should be a permanent activity, so I appreciate that this declaration should in a certain way have an echo, because these days we have received warning data that for the first 3 months of this year, the coverage of our exports by importing roughly 1/4. I appreciate that the envoys of this house have the right to receive the College's answer and I expect it to be in oral form immediately. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u981	I thank Mr. Limov. So I think this would be the right way for us to agree and make a joint proposal in the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. I don't think it's good to make two and then eventually agree, etc. This is a very clear, short document that should be shared, i.e. one Parliamentary Assembly. I think we'll put it on the agenda and then this way and settle this. I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to ask a question? We've been reported more. We're closing with this point. We're moving on to the second item of the Ad agenda. 2. The 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina received you in materials. Whether there's a need to complete something or possibly correct it. If there is no I suggest we adopt the minutes with the 10th session of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving on to Ad. 3. Envoy Tomislav Lim, under (a) Analysis of the situation in the criminal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the determination of obligations that must be respected on the basis of international standards and relevant conventions and under (b) Kolik and who are returnees of the name and last name after return, in pre-war residences constantly employed in public enterprises Elektroprivreda, Post office and telecommunications Herceg Bosnia and Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in health homes in the following municipalities; Zvornik, Visegad, Derventa, Teslic, Bugojno, Travnik, Kakanj, Stolac, Glamoc and Capljina. Mr. Limov, I think he'll give us an opening, so I'm calling him. Here you go, Mr. Limov, in a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u982	Thank you, I hope we're going to first (a) and then b). I have asked a delegation question on the situation and relations of criminal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all, with the intention of lighting this issue as a cause of engagement of all relevant entities in our country, including this Parliamentary Assembly, to comply with all the standards foreseen by the relevant international conventions. It is known that Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, was signed on 12 July 2002 and thus ratified, and on 11 November that year, the European Convention on Protection against Torture and Inhumane 12 or Demeaning Procedure or Penalty entered into force. It is this second convention that introduces a system of control on-site and supports dialogue between state officials and members of the Multidisciplinary International and European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty, known as the Committee for the Prevention of Torture or simply the CPT. The Convention, said, obliges all members and thus Bosnia and Herzegovina to ensure higher standards in prisons and detentions. By signing these conventions, Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken up with the rest of the obligations to provide access to information on places where persons are being deprived of liberty, as well as to provide other information relating to detainees and prisoners in respect of the conditions in which they are subject to penalties, and procedures for handling them. The Committee for the Prevention of Torture has set standards for the conditions in which detention and imprisonment are maintained. These standards and work of the CPT were introduced at the end of March 2003 by entity authorities and workers in criminal and correctional offices at the Seminar, which was provided by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in co-operation with the Sarajevo Office of the Council of Europe. After this seminar, which is usually common practice, the Council of Europe announced an official visit to our country to prevent torture for April 27th this year. As pointed out in the introduction, my envoy's question included the intention of mobilising competent domestic officials to welcome a visit to the Committee on the Prevention of Torture, as the bodies of the Council of Europe. The secretariat's delegation to the Committee for the Prevention of Torture wanted to speak to state ministers of security and justice, as well as to the entity ministers of justice of internal affairs and health, and senior officials of these ministries in charge of prisons, police and psychiatric institutions. In addition, the delegation was intended to meet with the liaison officer, cut off by the Council of Ministers and liaison officers of both entities. Since all these activities have passed, who are liaison officers and what impressions the participants of the talks have made, I do not know, but that happiness such as this would not have already been familiar with the course and results of this activity. God forbid our ministers and other officials treated guests from the Council of Europe, members of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture, as we do to the envoys who are asking questions, because this would be a disastrous representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as one of the youngest members of the Council of Europe. In mid-April o.g. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has made up information on the state of human rights, persons who are being punished. On 16 April, Minister Kebo sent this information to the Council of Ministers, asking it to be included in the agenda of the next Council of Ministers. What happened next, I don't know. In this information there have been assessments of the situation in the criminal establishments in Zenica, Tuzla, Mostar, Doboj and Fochi. I will not, on this occasion, convince the content of this information, but I will present some major assessments and problems, noting that these are not my assessments, of course, but the assessments of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were given ten days before the arrival in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the aforementioned Committee for the Prevention of Torture. The main assessments and problems in criminal institutions are the following; First, the needs of convicts for primary, secondary and tertiary health care are only partially met. The national structure of workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal correctional services has been greatly impaired in relation to the 1991 census. The diet according to the rule of nutrition of convicted persons meets the standards prescribed by law, so the paper is all good but in reality the prisoners are in the main suing of the quantity and quality of food and the lack of physical separation or the existence of a kitchen according to 13 religious laws. Fourthly, accommodation does not meet European standards regarding squares per convict. So, the problem is overbooking, for example in two rooms of Forensics in Zenica there are 75 convicts, but also outdated installations and devastated facilities do not meet the standards especially in Zenica and Foca. The right to work and work compensation has been resolved very differently from the institution to the institution, therefore unstandardized. These days, media released information related to relations in Tuzlan prison. The education of prisoners and the education of employees is at a very unsatisfactory level and the seventh, meeting the religious needs of convicts is different, and in principle in an unsatisfactory manner resolved. Dear colleagues, envoys, if you remember, I raised my question about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal institutions right after a known insurrection at the Zenica Penal Institute. Not long after that, there was also a rebellion at the Mostar Penitentiary, which was a kind of an expression of a rebel or a convicted revolution. I'm not going to talk now, because it's known that these were quite typical riots and they didn't refer to these elements that the information was talking about and I said, I was just quoting parts of this information when I was talking about major grades. However, on this occasion I would like to draw attention to some of the parts mentioned in the above mentioned information in which, for example, the Zenica Penal Reparation Office stands, quote – located in old and permanent buildings and the conditions of accommodation of convicts are far below European standards, but also standards prescribed by domestic laws, quote completed. This is shown by the following facts, of course, firstly in the aforementioned department for the implementation of measures on the safety of psychiatric treatment and storage in a medical institution, so this famous forensics department is located 75 convicts in 2 rooms where there are no minimum conditions. Second, cases of racting of convicts have been observed. Thirdly, mutual beating of convicted persons, fourthly, convicts of Serbian and Croatian nationalities, have been found to be exposed to physical and psychological abuse by other convicts, and the fifth has no equipment to prepare food from pig meat, so in procurement according to some calculations, 37,323,00 KM was to be singled out. On the basis of all that I have put out here and, in accordance with the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina must fulfil if it wants to, and wants to become a member of the European and Euro-Atlantic associations, I propose that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopt the following conclusions, with the aim of, of course, meeting the conditions in the criminal and correctional institutions in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina set out in the international conventions that I have previously indicated. First, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers, the relevant departments of justice, human rights and refugees to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in cooperation with the entity ministries of justice within 90 days, to consider and adopt a national strategy for the establishment of standards in criminal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina prescribed by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Convention on Protection against Torture and Inhumane and Demeaning Procedure or Penalty, as well as the conditions prescribed by the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Torture, and the relevant domestic laws and other regulations. Secondly, the House of Peoples of the Parlamntary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the entity and county ministries of justice within 120 days in the parliamentary procedure, to provide a full programme of implementation of the state strategy, to create conditions for meeting standards in the criminal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will, in addition, address the conditions and methods of adaptation of existing criminal and correctional institutions with a view to 14 that they meet European standards by quality, number and capacity, and should have a priority on this plan for criminal establishments in Zenica and Foca. Thirdly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the BiH Ministry of Justice to ensure, through entity justice ministries and administrations in criminal and correctional institutions, the regular classification of convicted persons in particular of minor perpetrators of criminal offences, and to enable appropriate programmes to resuscitate convicts through work and to exercise the right to compensation for the work. Fourthly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to resolve the problem of the Department for the Implementation of the Security of Prihyatrian Treatment and Care in a health care facility within 6 months. in the Department of Forensics, Zenica elaborates and initiates the construction of a system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, especially when fines are replaced by prison sentences. For example, the forms of compulsory social useful work and the like, within 6 months, the national structure of the employees in all criminal and correctional institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina shall comply with the 91st year census, ensure that health care is ensured in accordance with the law and needs of the convicts, ensure that all convicts receive food that is in accordance with the relevant rules and quality, and ensure that the kitchen is physically separated according to the religious needs of the convicts, ensure that the religious needs of the prisoners are regularly met, ensure the implementation of appropriate educational programmes for prisoners and permanent vocational training for the employees of the criminal institutions, ensure accommodation conditions according to European standards on the squareity and content of the infrastructure. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH then obliges the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to monitor the implementation of the strategy and programmes, and to regularly, at least once a year in the form of written information, report to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, ensure the permanent mortiring of human rights in criminal institutions of persons deprived of liberty and convicts, and to report regularly at least once a year in writing to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the provisions and conditions for the work of a permanent liaison officer with the aim of achieving closer cooperation with the Council of Europe to prevent torture. I also suggest that if these conclusions are adopted, then we, as the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, go into action to create conditions for meeting all of these standards foreseen by the relevant conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u983	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here we heard from Mr. Lim, he's just, he's under a), he went and specifically with a proposal for conclusions, does anyone want to get involved in the debate on this issue? Mr. brkati. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u984	Dear Members of the College, distinguished colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers and guests, journalists, I feel the need to say a few words here supporting Mr Lim precisely because in the last meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly I was the president of the Human Rights Commission, I had the opportunity to visit 5 criminal correctional offices in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a member of the Commission. Among other things, we visited Sarajevo, Mostar, Zenica, Foca, and I could confirm much of what Mr Limov said that 15 is so. But I came out here to say one fact that we specifically paid attention to when we visited those correctional homes because I personally cared deeply about the fact that many people were killing. And in every detention facility, I asked the warden to talk to the people who killed him. And I've spoken in each of those homes, and I've come to an unquestionable truth, a fact. Everyone I talked to killed in 99% of the cases said they were under alcohol. It's a frantic fact that we brought to the press conference that we organized after all these visits, and then we appealed, and that's why I came out. And I'm talking to the whole society that however we're running a campaign to spend our homework, society to lead a campaign against alcoholism, from the top of the state to all the state authorities to try to prevent that possibility from happening. It's a very wide range of activities that society should organize. However, our appeal in that time went very quietly, very calmly I did not notice in any newspaper or on any television that anyone had ever had a conversation about that fact. We're the country I'm sure of because I've traveled around the world a little bit, so I've seen a little bit of how it is in other countries, we're the land where alcohol can be bought on every corner, every child and every, every slave of God who wants to take it. It's not like that anywhere in the world. This means we need to bring some kind of activity into this regard to disable these phenomena. And I would really like to make my contribution to this Parliament to make its contribution in this fight for the protection of people not to get in that situation to be punished and then to kill her whether, now not to talk about car accidents, not to go any further. I came out to say that we need to lead this very serious activity in the fight against alcoholism, which would have to make a 10% increase in the situation by 20%, that would be this, that would be a big step, a big step forward. And there's one more thing I'd like to underline. In a conversation with all the leaderships in the correctional homes, we've already noticed certain things that can only be solved by a human factor, by the people who are responsible for it. We pointed out some things and they accepted it but I'm very glad, for example, that the trustee of the Banja Luka penitentiary accepted all our suggestions as well-intentioned and said that he would really install them in this, in the organization of that criminal jurisprudence. That's what the manager in Mostar said, too. It refers to those religious freedoms, the possibility, the possibility of this, which the state needs to provide to every citizen regardless of this, which he is supporting his punishment, and one more thing he would draw here and end up not taking too much time. Health insurance is also very often dependent on people in the administrations of these homes. I thought once a characteristic case I'd repeat it here. An inmate from Miljevina and in a Focan prison complained that he had blinded himself to one eye because of glaucoma, completely blinded, and threatened to blind himself to another eye very quickly and not let him go from Foca to another prison near some medical facility. I think it's that this kind of thing can't happen and that this society has to provide these people with an adequate protection as much as possible, but that there is, that there's a good will to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u985	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u986	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleague Lim most sincerely for initiating this item of the agenda, on an extremely well-prepared introduction and information that he has given us and particularly on a very extensive and systematic proposal for conclusions. I have to admit that 16 before this I had no intention of discussing this, but his opening statement absolutely encouraged me to do this and I want to say the following. The question we're talking about right now is one very important question. Fortunately for me or unfortunately, I have a personal experience with this, and I can say that it is my personal position, that the issue of one country's democracy and the country's determination to respect human rights is the easiest and most accurate measure in terms of the state to those who have violated the law and who therefore maintain a certain penalty. From what I could hear from this introductory presentation of Mr Limov I can say the following; We have managed to pass through a terrible war, we have managed to change the structure of the state, we have changed its contents but I have the impression that we have almost fully maintained our relationship to prisons and prisoners, which is actually incredible and inadmissible and contrary to the basic principles of such an imaginary and so-called state. The debate over the prisoner's position may be someone who is a little older, who remembers better that the former state in recent years has come under a terrible blow from the international community whether it's really trendy or right but it's come under a terrible blow from the international community over the prisoner position and the fact that nothing has changed there for decades. As far as I can tell from the reforms that took place in 86. 87 C.E. technical reforms in some of the prisons, nothing has been done to date except, which is both buildings and installations have become obsolete, making the conditions even more difficult. For this reason, I believe that this debate today should actually be something that should be included in the Council of Ministers' work programme, something that should be binding on the Council of Ministers and, according to this and entity institutions, from the justice ministries to the lower to take special measures. I have no delusions about this story costing. To change this situation, you have to invest a lot. But if this situation doesn't change, then we don't actually approach the true story of democracy, of human rights, of rights at all, etc. Unfortunately, we have allowed ourselves that when the international community doesn't call us strong enough for something, we try not to think about it, let alone work on it. Since the International Community has obviously identified some of the priorities that may be related to a wider population that seems to be a priority to the International Community, we have put this aside in some way. For this reason, I would like to say that it is inadmissible, that the state that is now ruling there is therefore, of the overcrowding of space, of which there is essentially no quality program that would be very ugly words of resociation, retraining so these are very ugly, very unacceptable concepts because there are people who are in the execution of punishment who are intellectuals, therefore who have graduated from universities, there are people who have done various jobs very seriously, there is a serious world that has committed murder on the ledge, there is this and so on. After all, no one is immune to making a mistake, and someone makes such a big mistake that they crash the law, someone else's not so big that they crash the law, etc. However, we were therefore ready to accept the basic rule and the basic standard of Europe to go towards the abolition of the death penalty and at the same time we have allowed ourselves to actually keep the conditions in prisons such that they are so inhumane, that they are so inhumane that we are actually asking whether the same line of logic is to end the death penalty and keep people in conditions that are unacceptable. So, from the limitations of space, from mandatory work which is inadmissible, it's unacceptable to force a prisoner to work, absolutely inadmissible. Another thing is that our psychology, psychosociology, and everything else, remained at such a level from 48 to 52 years old, when it was thought that working actions, impact brigades and similar mandatory and forced works could change both psychology and sociology, which proved impossible in the socialism that 17 had systems and mechanisms to control not individuals but the entire society and the whole state, so again it was not effective and especially in this, one completely other system in the system of pluralism of general pluralism, so it is unacceptable that someone who was sentenced to punishment must work. He must have the right to choose whether to work or not. He must have the right when he chooses to work to decide afterwards not to work. The fact that the state has decided to make order means that the state has decided to make sure that those who have broken the law have conditions under which they will no longer break the law, but at the same time have human living conditions. For this reason, I believe that the initiative of Honorable counterpart Lim is extremely important and that it cannot end any well-prepared and clear conclusions of this home, but it must be part of the strategy, it must be part of the programme of work of the Council of Ministers and Government of both entities and it must be a permanent obligation which, of course, will require and allocate funds. The second is the story, and the second question is what is actually as a society once again headed by the Council of Ministers, we need to take a number of activities which unfortunately do not take place anywhere near the media, through school, through education, through public appearances in which we will do what is more possible to reduce the conditions leading to crime and criminal offences, but it does not in any way exclude and end the obligation of the state to carry out its obligations, therefore, and respecting domestic laws, and respecting international norms and regulations and finally respecting the principles of the state as it is drawn up. Due to the fact that Mr Limov has submitted a proposal for conclusions that is very systematic, which is very thorough, which shows his extraordinary knowledge of this issue, and because of the fact that a number of proposals implies a significant, truly significant investment from now on and in the future and that we have not had the opportunity as MPs in this House or MPs to see these conclusions earlier, I would ask my colleague Limov to accept this suggestion and that this proposal may define his conclusions on the next finding. So, if we could refer these proposals to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which I understand in this House, is in charge of these issues, in order to eventually make certain suggestions and supplement them, and that such a proposal, which will be adopted on that Commission, will appear at the first next session of the House, to make a statement on it and to accept it anyway. It might be useful to discuss in some way the Commission with representatives of the Council of Ministers who deal with these issues in a way that can be handed over from the deadlines and terms proposed. I am rooting that everyone, that I do not support all of this happening within these deadlines, may not be able to do something and certainly should and would also feel that it would be necessary, that, when these conclusions are accepted at this home, that in any way or a colleague of Limov to ask one of his colleagues at the House of Representatives, or the College of our home to ask the College of the other House to put this point on the agenda of the House of Representatives and that we have unique conclusions so that we can then come up with an action plan which is essentially contained in the proposals of Mr Lim's conclusion and in such a way that we are going to go into activities that would have to give results at very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u987	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone else interested in the debate? We have here and specifically, so we have a proposal for conclusions from Mr. Lim and we have an idea from Mr. Čengić. Mr. Limov, as you are the proponent of these conclusions, how do you feel about Mr. Čengić's idea of how to bring this in? 18
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u988	First of all, thank Mr. Čengić for the constructive proposal, I find it less of a problem for me, it is important that this issue is given the treatment it deserves, and whether we are going to declare ourselves today on the conclusions or at the next session it is less important that I warn and we are already one point on the agenda, and that is the security policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina we have taken off the agenda, not only that we are late from the House of Representatives which, in conclusion, set 90 days as a deadline for repairing that document, but we should bear in mind and the fact that we have promised to create the conditions by the end of the year and expect that we will be admitted to the Partnership for Peace in the middle of next year, as I personally consider that there is no reason to delay, but if most of them do not mind, therefore, it is a matter of commitment. It's important that the problem goes to conclusions, that people come to the conclusion today or next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u989	Well, here I don't know, I think it would be, if we accept it then means that the committee responsible is constitutionally-ustavno-pravni to study these conclusions and that at the next session, it is in the form of the House's conclusions to pass them on at the next session. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u990	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u991	Yes, it is to come anyway. Okay, well, then we agreed to make a formal statement, so for this conclusion, it means that these conclusions of Mr Lim go to our committee to consider them, to give their opinion and then to hold a session for the next adoption. Who's in? Thank you. Since we unanimously adopted this conclusion we go under b. Mr. Limov, you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u992	So, given the circumstances here I am again on the occasion, I propose the same methodology, so the same approach to make a certain argument and then to suggest a conclusion, possibly to agree on the direction of our further activity, namely under this point under b) is envisaged one of the most powerful topics and one of the most important projects in posdayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps the herbs would be to wait, if I could, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u993	There you go, of course. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u994	Thank you very much. I am using the occasion before I continue to express my satisfaction that Dominister Marinović is present at this session because it is a matter which is in the ingenuity of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees above all. Namely, one of the most important projects in the Poddejton Bosnia and Herzegovina is the return of exiled, refugees and displaced people, i.e. the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement as one of the main conditions for political stabilisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I would say the regions of Southeast Europe as a whole. Conscious of this, the Council of Ministers prepared a document of Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategy for implementing the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement in late 2002, in its previous meeting, i.e. its competent Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. An integral part of the said document and the action plan for its implementation, the current Council of Ministers or the Resolution Ministry, have adopted the documents referred to as their own and assumed the obligation to implement the strategy, therefore also the return plan. My envoy's question, the Honorable Minister Keba, or the Council of Ministers, directly springs from this document of the Return Strategy and answers to it is for many things fateful for our future. I believe that the existence of Bosnia and Herzegovina only makes sense if it is therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina is multinational, multi-configial and multi-cultural. For me, there is no dilemma that such a number of Bosnia and Herzegovina depended on, in addition to, in particular, on the return or better on how much and how much they would really return to their hearths and how much more than 2 million, which in that insane work was scattered by those who created political reality back then in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to some data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 67% of Hrvat, 63% of Bošnjak and 49% of Srbin were exiled. For my insistence on this problem, I was motivated only two reasons ago. First, without returning, there is no real reintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the second without hiring returnees there is no sustainable return. According to UNHCR data from the Dayton Peace Agreement by the end of June, 959,595 were returned to their assets, out of which 701,409 and Republika Srpska 253,512 returned to Brcko District 20,674 returnees. That God of these numbers are true, and that really so many people have returned. Unfortunately, the property law implemented and the real return in practice are at an enormous distance. But even if these figures were correct, there would be no reason to rejoice because that's not even half of those who are scattered. Seven years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Accords, we haven't even given people back what they've been kidnapped, robbed and destroyed. From just a returned home or returned to the most frequently devasted apartment, you can't live. Returning is mostly a new misery and suffering. He can't be sustainable if people don't work and if they can't live on their work. The state, at all levels of its organisation from Bosnia and Herzegovina through entities, treats the municipalities mostly as a social assistance provider, rather than allowing them to work where it is, therefore, the state owner or how the majority owner is used to it. Therefore, from the authorities of the administration, public enterprises, funds to institutions and state-owned enterprises. Politicians have been manipulating politicians for years, playing with them as numbers. Recently, on the occasion of a visit by Minister Kebe Republic to Croatia, it was revealed that in Republika Srpska, a good part of the property of the expelled Bošnjak and Hrvat lives 24,000 Srbin who wish to return to their property. Some data even says there are over 35,000. 20 Croatian Minister Čačić argues that only 2,600 Srbin now in Bosnia and Herzegovina want to return to their property in Croatia. I know that only in Prijedor lives about 700 families who have been exiled from Croatia. This example, however, speaks of how numbers can be manipulated in different ways. The results of the returnees' employment I will in one sentence in words are catastrophic. That is why our authority is primarily responsible at all levels of organization. It has, of course, the responsibilities of the International Community, but for the fate of the returnees, it is solely those politicians who, as a rule, give their vote. The disastrous results of the returnees' employment are I think the key reason why Minister Kebo did not answer my envoy's question. As an illustration, I sought information for 10 municipalities from different parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I've been looking for information for only 3 public companies, Post office, telecommunications, Elektroprivreda and one health home or health home in 10 selected municipalities. Since the minister did not respond, and I know that he visited some of the municipalities for which I was looking for data, it may have been a good opportunity for the minister to present these data to the appropriate find because I suppose he did still ask these questions in the municipalities where he was staying. In order to obtain such exact information, I called for help from returnees’ associations, and I spoke directly with representatives of some of them. Of course, I was in some of the municipalities where I received the information. On this occasion, I present as an illustration of the situation, part of the data that I have given up pretense to do so in some kind of methodological and systematic way. First, according to UNHCR data from the signing of the Dayton Agreement by the end of May of this year, it returned to its own or better words to its 592.002 Bosniaks, 292.762 Serbs, 124.257 Croats and 7,650 other citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, the number of returnees in only some municipalities is the following; Zvornik 12,000 mainly Bošnjak, Bratunac 2,500 families of Bošnjak, Srebrenica 2,500, Bijeljina 9.300 Bosniaks and Croats, Drvar 8,000 Serbs, Glamoć 4,900 Srbin and Bošnjak, Bugojno 9,200 Croats 2,800 Serbs, then Capljina about 5,000 Bošnjak and Srbin, etc. And how many of them were employed above all, as I said in terms of illustration in Elektroprivreda and health homes, 1 in Drvar in Elektroprivreda, 1 in the hospital in Bijeljina, 9 Hrvat the Post Office in Bugojn, as they told me about 6 employees and 9 in Livno, they told me, and as a compensation, I find this term inappropriate, but here I mentioned it originally as explained to me. Then in Capljina and Stoc, Zvornik, Glamoc, Tesla, Kaknju no one, and the authorities of the administration and other state firms are no better. For example, Drina shoe factory in Zvornik 11 returnees, Finvest Drvar 130 factory, Drvar municipality administration 40 etc. Generally speaking, the weakest return to eastern Bosnia is the municipalities of Visegrad, Rudo, Tchajnić, Rogatica and Foča. Then in the region of Banja Luka, eastern Herzegovina. For example, illustrative data have returned to the area of the Banja Luka diocese only 3% of the pre-war inhabitants of the Catholic religion, that only 10% of the houses have been renovated in Srebrenica, that the Hrvat exiles of central Bosnia have a job, have no house, while in the same Drava domicilic Srbin have houses and apartments but do not have a job, that in 1996 the Doboko village of Maklinovac returned 1.22o Bošnjak to 274 refurbished houses, but today there are no demining properties, that 65,000 or 52% of the pre-war residents of Mostar in their own town of the second row, that in Konjic of 16,000 pre-war inhabitants in Hrvat, the Hrvat and Srbin have returned to all 2,223, that in Kaknja 50 return houses are still empty, that Fata Orlović from its own village is not able to move the citizens of the second order to get away from all the Croatian people in Croatia. I know that the problem of coming back is one of the most complex issues of our society and our country. I also know the problems that returnees face. I will only be taxing to list some in which the resolution must include the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers and all other levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina as quickly and efficiently as possible. Returning property is important, but this issue is not all the authorities are obliged to resolve, as returnees are first unemployed, largely not regulated pensions, health insurance and do not receive social assistance. Some of the envoys asked certain questions about this, and then the returnees were not represented in local and higher levels of government at the appropriate finding, the fourth might be next month but they still have not been solved the problem of schooling children, and since yesterday, if he had started to solve them in a more quality way, and this Assembly, by adopting an appropriate framework law, has created assumptions for this, the fifth is being robbed of their houses, their apartments are destroyed by property, the sixth is generally unpunished verbally and physically assaulting, beating, intimidation, rape, rape and murder. They're having trouble providing water, electricity, phones, roads, etc., etc. Some of our politicians and even a part of the foreigners in recent months have been repeating that the safety of the returnees is good. And what security we have has shown is that events that unequivocally confirmed the fear that an ambience was created in which cars and buses fly into the air in Sarajevo, the rockets target the residential houses, the catering facilities and other places find bombs with or without lighters, etc. I'll list this occasion some of them I'd say relatively fresh examples of the victims being returned. Unpunished shooting with automatic rifles around the houses of Serb returnees in the village of Klepci Municipality of Capljina murder of Serb returnees of Unsko-Sanski Canton, multiple mining of catering facilities owned by Bošnjak in the window, the murder of old woman Rabija Čaušević in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the returnee Zijad Bešić was beaten and bombed at the home of returnee Hasan Ičanović, multiple beating of young people for carrying crosses in the Catholic school centre here in Sarajevo, damage to the house of Stana Mičukic here in Novi Sarajevo, harassing and beating and shooting from the gun by the former police commander of 4 Bosniaks in Tomislav City, a cure and graphics who are called against Islam, against the authorities throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, starting with the Predora, Bhu, Mohu, etc. What else needs to happen to tell me honestly and loudly enough. If all I said were to be added and it was difficult to find an example of the restoration or construction of religious objects without incidents around them, that the monuments and religious objects were generally unpunished from Sarajevo and beyond, we testified that the biskup of Truth was on the way to trial, that Bishop Komarica had been the subject of a kind of attack on the highest level in Republika Srpska only because he had told the truth that only 3% of Hrvat Catholics had returned to his diocese so far, we were infamous to the witnesses and the verbal attack that this same bishop of Komarica, along with the model Puljić Puljic, had experienced here in Sarajevo in the centre of our country, and we were representatives of this home, except for the honorable exception of Mr Halid Genjac, we missed it. Unpunished in public places stands out terrible messages such as "the knife of the Srebrenica wire" etc. 22 For all things spoken and for the good-bye that is in connection with this, and with the purpose of changing the situation for the better, I propose to the House of Nations for the adoption of the following conclusions. First, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers to engage consistently and consistently through the competent ministry and other relevant institutions in the implementation of the strategy and return plan at Bosnia and Herzegovina level, and to report on the results and the problems and difficulties on a regular basis and, at least twice a year in written form, to the House of Peoples. Secondly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers to directly engage its members and through its bodies to monitor the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions that all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina undertake to ensure, in the structure of employees employed in the state, entity and municipal administration, public enterprises, funds, institutions and state-owned enterprises, the national co-information of the 1991 census, which will have a positive effect on the employment of returnees, and to ensure that the designated activity is regularly reported in written information at least once a year to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also to take other measures on this plan within its jurisdiction. Thirdly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers to co-ordinate the activities of competent police structures at all levels of organisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to be process organisers, perpetrators of attacks on returnees and their property, and to report regularly to the public, at least once a year in written summary information and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Fourthly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers, within its legal powers, to raise the issue of political, labour and all other forms of responsibility, for all officials and staff of the administration, who, by either act or act in any other way, obstruct the obligations arising from the state strategy and plan to implement Annex VII in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to take appropriate legal measures against those who, by not knowingly, prevent the exercise of the rights of returnees and to ensure the processing of all those who violate regulations endanger the interests of the return population, because, in addition to other things, they are professional and fair access to the inevitable conditions of restoring trust of returnees to the state institutions. Fifthly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina undertakes to address at least once a year the issue of returning specifically to the employment of returnees through such a methodology that through comparative indicators, it will enable the affirmation of the results achieved each year, strengthening responsibility for the failure to do so, and determining the next tasks that will show in practice our unwavering commitment to create an overall environment in which the right to return and life will be brought to life worthy of man. I propose, as a final conclusion, that these conclusions be passed on to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the suggestion that this House will also be made known to them and that we will eventually go on a common platform and give the impulse to better implement this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u995	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Čengić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u996	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity again to thank my colleague Limov for, above all, exhausting information about what is related to the return of the refugees, and I believe that the information he has offered has refreshed our memory, or has given us a tight picture of how many problems we still face in this business. I will, however, be very clear here and say that I believe that significant progress has been made in return, because I have witnessed this process from the very beginning through Parliament and, however, these progresses I fully share the assessment and Mr Lim's opinion cannot be satisfied. So maybe it looks very nice on paper in statistics especially when you look at it year after year as the statistics show in terms of return more positive and more positive though if you look at the other half of the statistics as far as they were displaced and refugees and how many have not returned at all, then you can see that this positive statistics is significantly limited, and still cannot possibly satisfy anyone from close range to say that it is satisfied. The other aspect in which Mr. Limov spoke and these are the other needs of the returnees. Therefore, the inability to employ, pension and health insurance or better to level the criteria for pension and health insurance, the issue of providing infrastructure structures for certain spaces, the issue of education and a number of other trials that follow the return of refugees are certainly important issues. I would be pleased to be of Mr Lim, along with these suggestions he has heard or heard and at least one point of conclusion that would suggest resources or ways of collecting funds because I think I share the opinion of the majority and I believe that Mr Limov will agree with me that certainly existing political obstructions with insufficient security can be corrected and the effective work of competent institutions is a key problem which is now being put before all those working on the return of the refugees is a lack of funds. It is, of course, primarily due to the reduction in the flow of funds for these purposes from abroad. We have long been warned that this will happen. The resources that once came were significant, whether they were used in the best way it was something else, they were now significantly reduced and of course they had to look for alternative routes and resources. I must say here that I believe that this proposal of Mr Lim's conclusions should certainly be complemented by the conclusion that both our Council of Ministers and BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament should rebalance, budget rebalances in terms of increasing expenditure on refugees, but both entity governments and parliaments should also contribute additional funds to the return of refugees but should probably seek other funds. I don't believe that in this sense anyone can be against or may feel that in some way he is in an unequal position because I know reliably that the unfavourable position of the returnees concerns all three peoples, and it has less to do with both entities. True not to the same extent, but it is present, these problems would certainly be useful and useful to improve these conclusions by a proposal that would strengthen and suggest possible resources even in this year, especially in the following year. The next thing I know is that with everything Mr Limov said, this information would be aggregated or whatever you want to go to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly every 6 months, so not 1 year. I know that this is a little more work, but regardless of the importance of the topic, I think it is also necessary in this regard, that it includes those aspects that may be less financially related than the issue of security, such as the issue of ensuring equal conditions for schooling children, such as the question of negotiating criteria and principles on which to provide health services for returnees equally throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, the harmonisation of criteria is for paying pensions, etc. 24 I would remind my colleague, Lim, if I remember correctly in the Law on the Return of Refugees or on Refugees, which was adopted in this Parliamentary Assembly, among other things, there are penalties for obstruction, for non-execution, etc. And it would certainly be good if maybe that conclusion in that part actually put an emphasis on law enforcement. Therefore, there is no need for some new evaluations or some new sanctions because it would simply be good to implement these envisaged standards, therefore, by law laid down at all levels. So, considering that this is a very important topic, I hope that the first report on this will be delivered to this Parliament, so already to this Parliamentary Assembly for the next 6 months which would include the conclusion of what was done in this calendar year with the action plan and with a proposal to ensure as much resources as possible and I think that additional resources should be sought about it. Thank you very much. I believe that the conclusions from which they are proposed can be adopted by now, perhaps with a few of these remarks and the additions, there is no need to postpone them.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u997	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who wants to talk in this debate? No more reports. I suggest we make a statement about these conclusions and Mr. Čengić, if you had something concrete, I would ask him to go, if not to adopt the conclusions of the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u998	I'd just like to add about budget rebalances
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u999	For funding. Mr. Spasojević
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1000	I apologize for going out and supporting this discussion both, but I think these conclusions should go the same way through the Commission and we should get them to add a nice Commission, etc. to have a clear overview of what we are going to conclude, however, this is kind of personal to me, so I suggest, as well as the previous half of point (a) that this point (b) goes through the Commission and that the Commission determines these conclusions and then that Dom should make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1001	Thank you. We heard the proposal seem to be logical and correct means that we also have later conclusions divided and that the Commission, of course, takes care of what Mr Čengić has proposed to supplement itself with some conclusion in terms of providing the means to create these means to improve returns and all that is envisaged in the conclusions. Mr. Limov, as the author of these conclusions, can you agree with such a solution? Thank you very much. Of course they will, the Commission will call on Mr Lim. Okay, here's my statement. 25 Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the conclusion that the conclusions are going to the competent committee and that after the commission, they come to the adoption. Here I think we deserve that one 60-minute break. I suggest we continue at 14 o'clock. We've reached the fourth item of the agenda, it's Ad. 4. The parliamentary question of Mr. Osman Brk, pa here I call him to the introduction. Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1002	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will try to say with a few sentences what I now consider important here. In April, I asked Mr Čović, a member of the presidency of the current current current presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for his published interview with the Washington Times List. It's one of the most influential papers in America that actually forms a public change, public change policy in America and beyond, and an interview in such a list is one really important thing that creates a picture and about who gives the interview but also about the country from which it comes and which it represents. Since this interview has brought out a lot for me unacceptable speeches, I have asked Mr. Čović to see if that is really what was said. And I'm surprised I didn't get an answer until today. I, as a member of Parliament, have asked a member of the Presidency of the State, and I believe that he should give me an answer. I did not ask a member of his cabinet's chief and what came in the meantime after putting an end to the agenda from cabinet members from Mr. Čović's cabinet chief, I do not consider it an answer. I am truly surprised and truly negatively surprised that this communication between the members of the Presidency and one MP of any of this House has lasted so long and is simply unfulfilled. When in every democratic country so much we all know the presidents of the states, the government has an open day for ordinary citizens who come and talk to people from the highest political summit of the state, and for that they find time and in this case I, as a Parliamentarian, am waiting for an answer for 5 months. Since these are very unacceptable and difficult words for me, I am really asking Mr. Čović here and today here I suggest we give him another chance to answer this. Is that it or isn't that. To come here or to sign what the head of the cabinet signed. I will only after that when I get such a response from Mr. Čović, who I believe is obliged to give it to me, to make clear about this response signed by the chief of staff. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1003	I thank Mr. Brk. Is there still a need to discuss this issue? Whoever else wants to. Mr. Čengić, go ahead. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1004	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to begin this brief statement with a simple question. Imagine what would have happened if one such issue had been raised by a media house in Bosnia and Herzegovina to a member of the presidency, to any member of the presidency, and that he had not given any answer for the next six months, he did not give, had no reaction, no positive, no negative to such a single question. I suppose all the other media would join this media and the Association of Journalists and all the others and say it's amazing that high-ranking state officials don't interact with the public, don't answer public questions, do their public duty and public office. Here we have a situation that is more political and important and serious, that a member of the People's House in Bosnia and Herzegovina from another people, considering a statement from the presidency now and the president, the chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency as inadmissible and unfounded, we have no reaction for months. I am very sorry that I have experienced this at all and I am very sorry that this is happening in these circumstances in which we are and I am finally very sorry that I am now representing the Club of Representatives who raised this issue. If I said so, it would be easier for me to say that I'm in a neutral position somewhere. But here I'm afraid we're just inventing a neutral position that has no neutral position. There is a very clear and well-known responsibility of public officials for a public word, and there is sensitivity in every political atmosphere and also in Bosnian, naturally speaking views. If that were the case, we have more examples. I may just briefly remind you of one last example in which the actors were Prime Minister of one European Community government and an poslanik of another European country, who met at the European Union Parliament in which the prime minister was not to mention any of the names, has known everything, has given us one illusion that this MP understood in a certain way and was then assisted by all members of Parliament to finally shed light on it until the time until the premijer Minister of Honor and the distinguished state has apologized to the Prime Minister of that other country, where the poslanik is from. Why?, because serious things are always serious and they're either being dealt with properly or continuing to smolder, causing problems. If you now have a situation where someone who manages a country, says to their country that terrorism flourishes, that there are cells in that country of some international terrorist organisations, that in that country a whole nation is discriminated against, that there are no cultural, political and other rights, and that its representatives cannot be employed, then they are dearly my very serious statements, or they are not statements. Whatever it is we need to discuss. For that reason, I find it the worst thing to do is to let the ambiguities roll away. In this case, it's a matter of misunderstandings. So, what's really true, what's not true is I can't tell at this hour. We have on one side what has been published in newspapers, serious newspapers, which is even worse for us, in newspapers that are very much read, which form not domestic Bosnian but international public change, it is influenced and, of course, it needs to be reacted. In short, if this interview or perhaps better said half-breeded interview in the Washington Times is analysed, we will see that it contains three groups of views. The first are the political-psychological framework and estimates that it is here, that there is terrorism here in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there is a serious subjugation of peace. Very serious not only political someone and legal qualifications. 27 Second, that there are certain examples, individual examples of violence, terrible violence, bloodshed, the killings of three people in Konjic and other forms of insult, violence, violation of the rights of individuals or groups of religious communities, etc. and then, in the third part, they are derived from these two previous premises, therefore, from this principle framework and individual examples, some indicative attitude of depriving the rights for the Croatian people of full political and cultural rights, as Muslims are in the majority of the Muslim-Croatian entity, Hrvat are deprived of position in many state ministries. It is probably the interpretation of journalists, I assume that Mr. Čović uses the concept of Bošnjak because it is clearly talking about national paraphics and thus ending this text. So, first of all, the question is, how is it possible that Mr. Čović has not been published for so long, has not appeared at Parliament, has not given an explanation and explanation, and I hope, as it says in the text signed by his head of the Kabinet, that in fact many of these incriminatings and these incriminatings are very serious, that they are not really his views, but that it is the fruit of someone or misunderstanding or false interpretation by journalists. Anyway, I need to ask a few questions here. If we go in reverse order after this interview, the question is who is this someone who is responsible in this country what if it is true that Hrvat are culturally and politically provided, which they are without. The question is also whether Muslims are guilty because Hrvat are in many positions, that they are deprived of position in many state institutions. Even if this is all true, who's responsible for this. If an interview was given on 17 March 2003, is responsible for this situation by this current authority, which was elected in the last elections and has practically taken responsibility in the first month of this year, so the interview was given in fact two and a half months after this authority formally began to function, or is responsible for the previous government we called the Authority. Secondly, is this one, whether it's one-national or one-party and whether this question can be viewed in this way, and who these criticisms really refer to? Who is responsible for this situation, and then to ask the next question, where is Mr. Čović's position, who gives a statement like this, while sitting at the highest state office in this country, is a member of the presidency, now he was not, now the chairman of the presidency, so if this situation is said to be, so I say again allegedly, then the question and responsibilities of Mr. Čović are clearly being raised. Of course, if Mr. Čović wants to get rid of it through newspaper interviews, he knows as an experienced politician that it is not possible to solve it there, but that it must be dealt with here. You know that it is not disputed that there are a number of problems, it is not disputed that there has been an incident, it is not disputed that there have been serious crimes, serious crimes that have been investigated, for which, as the perpetrator was discovered in Konjic, he was brought to justice and sentenced as far as I know, at the same time for insults and insults and attacks on Cardinal Puljić and Archbishop Komarica, who took place in Sarajevo, not only the gentleman respected Dr. Halid Genjac, as his colleague said this morning rather than the entire Bosniak Club here in this house a few months ago, expressed a clear condemnation of that act and of all other acts of insult to anyone on any basis, especially by national, religious, etc. belongings. So in this sense, there is no dilemma that we are against terrorism, we are for establishing order, we are for stronger border control, we are for the control of the functioning and humanitarian organisations, but if someone singles out only one type of humanitarian organisations and connects them with certain terrorist activities in principle, and they are somehow read again as related to one people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of these have their own omens. So, very briefly, it is about this interview having very serious consequences and on relations within the state that 28 should not be affected, but vice versa, we need to continue through further establishment of co-operation, trust and problem resolution, of course, and the consequences of the international position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the interview is given to foreign newspapers. So, one of the exceptional circulation and influential newspapers in the world, and finally have consequences for other relations, because if it is mentioned in the interview that, among other things, some of these suspicious humanitarian organisations and these terrorist cells in Bosnia and Herzegovina are funding from Saudi Arabia, then there is this international dimension that I know currently has also established diplomatic relations and good relations with Saudiska Arabija and as far as I know, the Presidency is exactly who is leading the foreign policy, so it was either a turn or a question of relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Saudi Arabia, or some relationship in those relations, or to say what was published in the Washington Times is. Is that really Mr. Ćović's attitude? Is that really his statement or are those the manipulations of journalists? If this is all seen in this way, it is very clear, that it is the least necessary, not by a statement or a signed statement by the chief of cabinets, Mr Čović reacts to what has been divided into hundreds of thousands of copies in this prominent American list, but rather by communicating within the BiH state in a common, democratic and procedural manner between representatives or the highest structures of the government, therefore, representatives of the Presidency and the BiH Parliament. For this reason, I find it truly amazing that this kind of serious thing appears with the explanation and explanation of the chief of staff, who did not give the interview, the chief of staff who was not asked the question and the chief of staff who could not function in this way as a representative of the Bureau towards the House of Peoples of Parliament, according to an honourable colleague, who asked this question and the club of MPs etc. Let me get this straight. I think this might be a good reason to define some of these relationships and relations and put them on their right feet. I must say that I am very sorry to discuss this matter with you why one of the members of the Bureau did not find it appropriate and found the occasion to appear at the House of Peoples of One of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. I, of course, and I respect and understand the obligations of all three members of the Presidency, but I believe that, however, it was necessary for the distinguished gentlemen, at least one pub, to any occasion, and this is not your good cause, therefore, for any reason to appear in this home and to change our views on what we are, in fact, working together in a relationship and, hopefully, for the benefit of this country and its citizens. So, in that sense, I think it is, indeed, necessary to finally get an indication and an explanation or clarification of things about this interview, from whoever gave it to the esteemed presidency of Mr. Čović, so that we, as a House, can take a stand. I want to believe that what came as signed by the chief of staff is, in fact, the real truth, so, that there has been manipulation by Mr. Čović's statement and that he has these key claims, which are very serious and, of course, if they are so unfounded, then I want to believe that it is not his, but in serious political communication, in order to solve problems, must be done directly, not without an intermediary called the head of the cabinet. For this reason, I think it is necessary for Mr. Čović to be directly visible. It would be good if he had time to show up at home, if not in writing. Until then, it seems to me that this must remain open for further discussion. If there's no answer to his, then the House has to take its views and have to discuss, take the views out here and then start some activities. If this is true, then we are preceded by very serious changes and activities. If some of these things are true, we have to change them, we have to start, but we are taking part in this together, and Mr Čović, as part of the structure, 29 who are responsible for the state of BiH, cannot be irresponsible for dissuasion, possibly leadership i.e. Croatian peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1005	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1006	Dear colleagues, we know what the Washington Times newspaper is, of course, we know how important the US plays an integral role in the processes of all other BiH and, from that, we are extremely sensitive to everything that is published in influential media, especially by extremely influential media such as the Vašington Tajms in the United States. For these reasons, you will understand that this issue, especially after a long-term, months-long lack of response, has become the issue of the Bošnjak delegates' club, as you know the constitutional category, i.e. the constitutional institution in the BiH Parliamentary Collar. We as a club of delegates from the Bosniak people, of course, cannot ignore what was said in the Vašington Tajms, in particular, further concerned that this is, according to a memo by the head of the cabinet of Mr. Čović, a journalistic manipulation. In both cases, therefore, both in one case and in another, and in case these statements were conveyed authentically and in case they were interpretations that did not correspond to the views expressed by the Bošnjak klub to take what is expected as an institution, which represents the interests of one of the constituent people in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Namely, we have to react to the Vašington Tajms and we will react, of course. I am, indeed, not going to reconsider and I am not going to claim that any of this has been stated to be Mr. Čović's words. I just want us to constitutionalize the truth and intervene after that truth. However, we are witnessing practices, that in a series of documents, which treat security issues, security policies etc. They do not mention the questions mentioned in the interview anywhere, and then an interview is published abroad where a number of things occur that are not on official institutions, official authorities do not have the necessary debate. It is not the way in which a number of problems and problems present are solved in a way that brings out the more difficult and thus discrediting this or that which takes on a certain short-term and short-sighted benefit to itself. I'm not going to say that in this case, it's said that Mr. Čović is the practice, but we have witnessed many statements, many premeditated and unfounded statements, which in significant media around the world echoed like bombs, in the end turned out to be firecrackers. However, the damage done to BiH and to all its peoples and to all its citizens was inconceivable and long-term and, for these reasons, we are this as one of a very important issue, particularly concerned with the possibility that it is a misrepresentation or journalistic manipulation in such a respected newspaper as the Vašington Tajms. We, therefore, were considering this at the Bosniak Club and, on occasion, we decided the following. We will wait, of course, for Mr. Čović's answer. You understand us. If the head of the cabinet had responded, I would have provided you with Mr. Čović's response to the two-point, quotes from Mr. Čović, which is appropriate, I would have understood. However, I am providing you with an answer to the asked question, so in the answer Mr. Čović did not think so, Mr. Čović did not, so someone is giving qualification courts about someone else, who was asked the question. We can't use it as valid paper in our correspondence, which... 30 The Vašington Tajmsa and, therefore, we need Mr. Čović to make it very clear, is it really, as indicated in his permission from his cabinet chief or is it, therefore, not going to reconsider what it is. So, we will wait for Mr. Čović's response until the next session of the plea, after which we will be able to see whether, as a Bošnjak klub, as one of the constitutional institutions, we will suggest that the entire House of Peoples address the Vašington Tajms and point out the obvious truths that have been made, with disastrous consequences, which are possible for BiH and that it reacts in this way. Neither we as delegates nor as representatives of a BiH institution can simply ignore this. It is our obligation for all of us who are in the institutions, of course members of the Presidency and us as delegates to consider these issues, if there are problems in the institutions, to bring measures here and after these measures that, if we should and throughout the world, we are looking for help to resolve these issues. However, if a security situation document is published in January, information on the security situation in BiH in the Federation and RS, where none of these issues are mentioned anywhere, and then an interview by the representatives reportedly appeared in March, an interview by representatives of the BiH presidency, in which a number of things that are not contained in the Security situation document indicate, then it is obviously a problem. Obviously there's some kind of problem. Who created this problem? We really need to establish and then react. So we'll wait and as the Bosniak Club, let's see, really what it is, after that, believe that we're forced to react. It's just, what's happened before and what's proven to be a practice. I do not claim from Mr Čović, but from a number of others, we simply have to say once there is much more depriving BiH around the world and let us finally get serious and take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1007	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to talk? Okay. Since there are no more reports, Mr Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1008	Gentlemen Chairman, dear colleagues, I simply could not say no, since, if you remember and when Mr. Brk came to the question, I responded with respect and now I am undermining the right of every representative to ask questions to this House and that his right to receive answers to these questions, regardless of who it is, or the members of the BiH presidency. But the debate at this home, as a mandatory item of the agenda, took place by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the House. The way we've been acting so far, here, there's been a debate like this, as a mandatory point, and it's also a business law, which Mr. Brčka used. But it is also important how much the preservation of the dignity of every representative in this home, the preservation and dignity of all other state officials, the preservation of the dignity of the BiH state and of all those who act very important duties in the BiH state. You see, here, we are now opening up a very ugly practice here, an ugly practice that we are reading a newspaper, which has convinced something they have read abroad, we are turning it into a very important political issue, we are creating such an atmosphere, which is damaging our overall political atmosphere in BiH's political life, and we are trying to, in particular, about Mr. Čović, the current chairman of the Presidency, the head of the BiH state, to try this long-term media attack on that person, to crucify Dr. Čović, by all elements, which so far have not been proven at any level at any stage in the procession phase, we are now trying to extort a single parliamentary link and create a single atmosphere in which media disintegrating Dr Čović will continue. 31 What do you think that the Hrvat klub or any of the Croatian MPs had no reason for, perhaps, any more severe, because of the important, more vital, injured interests of the Croatian people in the verbal sense spoken by other officials, not to mention from any other people, there was no reason to raise certain questions. We let people do that work the way they think they can do it, that they can do it. You see, one bitter protest is in us sitting here listening to this debate and what it is about Dr. Čović, who is one, he is a constitutional person as a gentleman. He is one of the greatest, he has one such approach in his work, in his conduct, in his way, in his work, and I think among European citizens he is one of the presenters of that kind, means gentleman in his work. His home, Catholic, and political wisdom would certainly never allow him to say what others say he said. You see, now one very important crucial, crucial, political question is being raised. We've heard that word of concern. We heard a word of damage done to the BiH state by an official who is acting so high in duty. Well, please, is it the privilege of a nation to be the watchdog of BiH? Isn't this BiH also Covic's heart the same as everyone else who lives in this state of BiH and why so much concern about the words where, apparently, we heard that, we convinced a journalist in our press, what he read in a very circulation of foreign press. Why not believe the answer for which we Croatian MPs in these benches of the House of Peoples think is valid, because it came from the Office of the State Presidency, from the head of the BiH Presidency's office. Don't we trust bodies and officials in BiH institutions? Aren't they authorized persons? Did someone think that the head of the office of the president of the state wrote one word in this response and sent this honorary home without Dr. Čović seeing it, that he didn't approve it? You see, we think that's what Dr. Čović dictated and the head of the office signed it. This practice, if it continues in this home and moves on to the House of Representatives, will be a corrupt picture of our relations, of our attitude, of our strength, of our ability to overcome the serious problems that stand and of the serious affairs ahead of this country and of this parliament, because, please, in response, it says that it does not correspond to the content of the talks, which Dr Čović led with the journalist of the New Njujork Tajmsa. In response, the journalist said he served some theminology to the unknown Dr. Čović, and in response, he said that the interview that was given, especially what was transmitted by the local press, was not authorised, nor was it given to the New Njujord Tajms, nor was this given in our newspaper. Well, please, we're looking for arguments for an indictment without elements. This came from President Čović's office and I want to believe it and Croatian lawmakers will not vote on any conclusions on this issue. We'd do the same if it was a second member of the presidency. I underline, Mr. Čović is a great gentleman, who behaves his duty in the most appropriate way, as other officials, who are even sanctioned by a high representative, have acted on him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1009	I thank Mr Filipović. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1010	I'm very sorry to have to go out again to say a few words, but I have to say them. From the first day I got this text originally from the New Njujork Tajms, this is from the New York Times photocopy, so it's not safe from our journalists, it's translated from English, it's a translation into our language. I also gave this photocopy of English text and translation a few months ago to the members of the College, and it seems to me to me to the presidents of the clubs of all three nations that they have received both the original and that they have received the translation. That's one thing. 32 Another thing. From the first moment I asked questions to this day, thank Bog when he has a stenogram, I have not hurt Mr. Čović's personality in one word. I was just looking for an explanation for an interview that was published in the New York Times. I don't go into higher ground and I don't want to insult anyone, especially a member of my country's presidency. But I, indeed, believe that as a citizen and that I am not an MP in Parliament and that I am not in the House of the Peoples of this Parliament, that as a citizen, I can post a question to a member of the Presidency and that he is obliged to answer me, because if we are to, and we should all safeguard the dignity of the members of our country's presidency, we should all, and they should, too, safeguard the dignity of the Members of Parliament, because we are in one particular way the constitutional category, they in one way, we, in another. We need to have communication. Why can't Mr. Čović answer without the chief of staff? I really don't see any reason why he can't answer that. After all, there is no disturbance, no reason, he was humiliated if he would answer the messenger of this house, any MP, not as far as I'm concerned. I don't see any reason. I was just looking for an explanation, because it's unacceptable for me to be able to say that to a member of the presidency. I don't want these at the pay phone right now to repeat the statements that have been made. None of our money has published a translation of this interview, are individual quotes, but the entire text has not published any newspapers, has not published any television, and they are so fierce here, here I am and now I will not speak until I get an answer from Mr. Čović. If we have to, we'll take them out. They're available, they're public. They can be found online by anyone from the New York Times, but I don't see if Mr. Čović really doesn't stand behind these words, then he should say it nicely, I'm not behind those, I didn't say it. Then we know what we should all do, not just Osman, not only the Bosniak club, but also this entire parliament, I think that both the Croatian People's Club and the Serbian People's Club are not responsible for any journalist for any member of the presidency, now saying something he didn't say. That, I believe, is that in this country, we can all have happiness together, and all of us individually, only to the truth, and with that truth, we can move on. We can't do it any other way. First, when we find out what Mr. Čović is, is that, then I said it before when I first spoke, then I will plead on this... and Bog forbid I insult anyone or humiliate anyone, especially members of my country's presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1011	Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1012	Fellow MPs, I would briefly just react to the words of Koelga Filipović in the part where he linked this question to Mr. Čović's Tajms with the media treatment of members of the presidency, namely the current BiH presidency, Mr. Čović, and the question of the fullness of the response in which he is the president of Mr. Covic's cabinet. I cannot accept the claim that asking Mr. Čović's questions is in any way related to the current media treatments of the BiH presidency, because I would remind you, the question asked by my colleague, Mr. Brka in April and his Brka, we were all witnesses and, in some respect, participants, together with colleagues from the Bosniak People's Club, showed, indeed, maximum restraint and maximum patience in anticipation of the response. He did not take advantage of the right to consider this issue as a regular point of our home's agenda at a time when, in fact, it was necessary for his colleague, Brka, and we all showed maximum restraint and patience and, in fact, we showed it in the expectation of something that, based on the expectation of Mr. Čović's response, which was and we wanted exactly the answer we received from the chairman of his cabinet. 33 However, after so long and patience and restraint, I remind or repeat what my colleague Brka has already said, in no way has Mr. Čović been charged with statements unacceptable or attributed to him, only we were asked to condition ourselves, indeed, did he say what he allegedly said about the Vašington Tajms, therefore, Mr. Čović was not charged at any time, regardless of the very sensitive issues and we have reason to be affected. I, as we sit next to each other, will respect Filipović in the first part of the debate on the agenda, told him that I expected him to understand because he was a lawyer. Here I am not referring to the formal logic of law but to something that my colleague Filipović knows well, and which is still the legal institution from Rome first of responsibility for influence. The answer we received is not Mr. Čović's answer, but the interpretation of his answer is possible. Interpretations, I mean responsibility for influence, or meaning. An interpreter of the meaning or meaning of a statement cannot be someone less responsible whose interpretation, whose meaning or meaning of his statement interprets it. If the situation were the other way around, it might be possible to accept Mr. Čović's opinion on the possible meanings or meaning of a statement by his cabinet chief. I'd like to have someone else from the BiH government. In the opposite sense, this is unacceptable. The chief of staff can't be the one who interprets the president of the state and I'm asking my colleagues from the Croatian Club of Delegates to respect our reasons. I repeat, I want to believe and have reason to believe and agree with these assessments made by my colleague Filipović about a human exposure, so to speak, Mr Čović, that I am also experiencing him that he had no intention of demeaning either his colleague, Brk or the Club of Members of the Bošnjak in this House, or the House, or the Parliamentary Assembly. But, please, this would be a very bad precedent if, in very sensitive matters, we agreed that the most responsible people in this country are protecting us from interpreting their officials. I think it is absolutely unacceptable that any precedent of this kind is unacceptable and for this reason we expect understanding, above all MPs from the Croatian People's Club. It's not just the sensitivity of the question on Wednesdays. I stress again, we did not accuse Mr. Čović, we asked only for an answer, we wanted to, let me say, we expected the answer we received, but that is not Mr. Čović's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1013	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Who else wants to talk? As there are no more leeches, I'm closing this debate. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.5. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Communication Act, as referred to in Article 100 Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. For our information, the House of Representatives adopted the Law at the 17th session held on 7 August 2003. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Where the law is to be considered under Article 100(2). Writer of the House of the Peoples of the Parlmentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? 34 I thank and conclude that, with 14 votes in favour and 1 abstention, we have decided that we are considering this request to consider the proposal for a communication law under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the text of the law. Who's calling for a debate on the text of the law? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1014	The Bošnjak Club has been reviewing this law. You know the chronology and history of this law. He was declared by the High Representative. There are a number of shortcomings, there are a number of chapters that can be far better solved, but, to improve this law, the only and possible way is to adopt it in this form and later respond to the amendment and, for these very reasons, we have decided to support this law and we will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1015	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to talk about the law? I'm closing the hearing and giving this bill to a plea. He made a statement about the law. Who's in? I would like to thank and to conclude that we have unanimously adopted the proposal for a law, namely the Communication Act, as set out in Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.6. Declaration by the People's House on a request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, a debate is being held whether the law will be considered under a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives, for us for information, has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing this law. Who's answering for a word, a debate? There are no reports. I am making a request for this law to be considered under a reduced procedure, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I thank and realize that with 14 votes in favour and 1 abstention, we have decided that this law is being considered by a shortened procedure under Article 99. House of the People's. Here, a note to all of us, this law is being considered in a regular procedure, sorry, by a shortened procedure. Ad.7. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the BiH Aviation Law proposal, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, a debate is being held whether the law will be considered under a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing this law. I'm opening 35 discussions. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I call upon you to plead that the law is being considered in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Who's against? Abstained? I thank and realize that with 13 votes in favour and 1 abstention, we have decided that this law is being considered in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So 14 was for it. We weren't counted. Ad.8. Information from the BiH Election Commission on the work of municipal electoral competencies and voter registration centres You have received a report from the committee responsible. At its 17th session, held on 7 March 2003, the House accepted information from the Election Commission, with the conclusion that the Constitutional-Law Commission is in charge of holding a meeting with the BiH Election Commission and that it proposes solutions to the House, which would solve the problems recorded in the information in connection with the registration centres and local election committees. This is for information. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1016	First of all, I would like to thank the BiH Election Commission for this information on the work of municipal electoral commissions and voter registration centres. The Bošnjak Club was considering information, and at the beginning, I would like to highlight our strong support for the timely maintenance of local elections. So, in terms of how it is envisaged, how it is necessary and how it is planned to be maintained. We strongly support the maintenance of local, democratic and transparent elections in BiH and, of course, support the preservation of the level and achievement of standards in holding elections in BiH and, of course, to preserve the integrity of the election process in BiH. In the information that can be read, some things encourage, part of the question is not encouraging in all of our expectations, especially when it comes to the relation of individual municipal councils and municipal chiefs to the financing of municipal election costs and support to voter registration centres. In particular, attention should be paid to the registration of voters and abroad, which in this information is not adequately or adequately processed, and I think that there should be timely steps to avoid what happens in the last elections that a huge number of BiH refugees are not registered for the voting process in BiH. We, therefore, support the work of the Election Commission and maintain local elections in accordance with established terms and propose to invite all municipal councils to meet their obligations to finance municipal elections and, at the same time, to do everything to ensure the qualitative work of the voter registration centres and to complete municipal election committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-09-02-0.u1017	I thank Mr. Genjac. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? I think we should adopt the same conclusion as the House of Representatives. I think he's very logical. So, here, I'll read it. 36 It is up to the Constitutional and Legal Commission to hold a meeting with the BiH Election Authority and to propose solutions to the House, which would resolve the problems, which are recorded in information related to registration centres and local election committees. I think this is a good conclusion. It's gonna be going together, but, look, they're gonna make a deal with each other, we don't need that. Is this what we're all about? Who's in? There's no one to fight or to hold back. I thank and insist that with 14 votes we have adopted the conclusion that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is holding a meeting with the Election Commission of BiH and that it proposes solutions to the House, which would solve problems, which have been identified in the information related to registration centres and local election committees. This has exhausted today's agenda. I thank everyone for their response and constructive work. Thank you, everyone. The session's finished at 3:20.
