ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10171	I am opening the 23rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the MPs at the session, the chairman and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chaired by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the EU, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, representatives of the Watch Tower Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the UN Mission in BiH, representatives of NGOs, the Centre for Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society, representatives of the Brcko District expressed their wish to attend the session they were given. And in that sense, I would like to welcome the president of the Brcko District Assembly of Mr. Mirsad Džapo with a delegation of MPs and members of the Brcko District Government. So I welcome all the MPs and guests of this session. According to the Service report, I find the session to be attended by 33 MPs, which means we have a quorum and we can make important decisions. The absence from the session was justified by Mr Vinko Zorić, so I can inform you that we expect the other colleagues to join during the meeting of the Representative Council. Gentlemen, you've received a draft agenda for the 23rd session. Compared to the one you received in the call for the session, the 9th item of the agenda was removed, which is - The Joint Commission's report on the effort to follow the agreement on the same text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act. In fact, we have appointed a Joint Commission with the House of Peoples, so this unique committee of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. In the meantime, they haven't met, and we don't have any reports today, so I'm asking you to accept the Expansive College's position to remove this point from the agenda. 2 I am opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm realizing that for today's agenda, we have the following points. 1. Record of the 22nd House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Central Recording and Data Exchange, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH's Authorities in Second Reading, 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Second Reading - Proposer of Parliament Sead Palavrić, 7. Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in first reading. So that's the agenda. And we're going to work on our adopted agenda. So we move to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. The record from the 22nd session of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening a discussion on the minutes of the 22nd session. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10172	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few interventions. One intervention is there about the Law on indirect taxation. I'm not on the debate list. It doesn't matter. Namely, my exit goals are the conclusion that we adopted at the end of session 22, which is under point 2. says - the conclusion on the last page, a new investigative commission is forming in this as well. I don't think we're even talking about a new investigation committee. We were only talking about a commission that will aim to sublime the conclusions with the debate and propose to this house about a set of conclusions with a simple assessment, views and conclusions resulting from the discussion on so-called. The state coup case. 3 What I'm saying confirms point 3. The task, the Commission says, is to submit its report to the House of Representatives within 30 days on the basis of a debate on the previous investigation report. So we're not talking about the new investigation committee, we're just talking about the conclusion committee that came up with the meaning of the so-called debate. The state coup case. It would be good if this were corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10173	I thank Mr. Avdić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's to adopt the minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10174	With the suggestion Mr. Avdić made. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10176	Mr. Chairman, the Bosnian-Herzegovina public followed what we did at the last session and I think Mr. Avdić is absolutely right. And the man presented very correctly what happened last time at the session. I ask you to put Mr. Avdić's suggestion on the motion for a minutes. His suggestion is fully justified and it is necessary to correct the record as he explained here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10177	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I have no objection to the suggestion of my colleague, Sejo Avdić, to put on a plea. So everything has to be democratic. In that sense, I am looking for the first record, and my colleague, Sejo Avdić, is looking for the first one.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10178	First his suggestion, then the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10179	Who is it to adopt the suggestion of counterpart Sejo Avdić? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? 4 Please of 36 for it was 25, against it was 5.1 abstention. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ladies and gentlemen, so please, we've finished the vote. We're done. Let's go. So Mr. Sead Avdić's suggestion was adopted. When we're done voting, Mr. Belkić, then we will. Who's to adopt the record? This suggestion has been accepted. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. We've adopted a unanimous record with a suggestion. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10180	I ask the College on behalf of the Club, don't put us in a position when we vote on the minutes to introduce suggestions, etc. When it comes to the record, there is a stenogram and there are some departments of preparation, offices, checks and let the College know how it was, or the House of Representatives as it was. In the discussion of the minutes now some suggestions etc. It's really not right. This is about whether the record is correct or not. That I can't remember doing anymore. You need to check through the stenogram what happened and how it ended. Please don't put us in this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10181	I thank my colleague, Belkić. That would have been fine if this story had gone before the debate. But those who vote and don't know what they voted for, let that be their problem. Please, you could've said that before, so it would've been like that. There is only a democratic way out of every situation here, but the way after the vote wants to explain why someone was trapped or in error is not logical to me. I voted against it because I thought it should be just like that, that the services level the record, the stenogram and say whether or not it is. Please, nice. But if anyone has another vision, I can only go out and put it to a vote. And that's why I'm asking you to keep your eyes open. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. It's Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to questions were received by MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Ivo Miro Jović, Seada Palavrić, Nikola Špirić, asked questions at the 17th session. 5 Tihomir Gligorić, Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mehmed Suljkanović, questions from the 18th session. Elmir Hajić and Selim Bešlagić, questions raised at the 20th session. I ask those who have received the answers to plead whether they are satisfied with the answers, who need to plead, and those who want to ask a new question to deliver it in writing. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10182	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, I asked at that session a question relating to the status of an institution for treatment, i.e. the care of persons with special treatment. It's about Fojnica, Baković, etc. Due to earlier debts, from earlier debts brought by the police in these institutions, claims both within Bosnia and Herzegovina from different institutions and from neighbouring countries, the issue has been focused on the Council of Ministers what it can do to address the problems faced by these institutions. The answer from the Council of Ministers is in an explanation of the competence within Bosnia and Herzegovina for issues of social problems, which means nothing, i simply received no answer to such a question, and i will ask that the question in that form be repeated again through the service, i.e. in such a formulation as was asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10183	I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr Ivo Miro Jović answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10184	I thank Mr. Chairman. I welcome all of you. Dear fellow MPs, you probably had this response addressed to our chairman, and according to my question of how to allocate funds for reconstruction by the federal ministry. And the Council of Ministers found no such issue to be forwarded to the federal ministry. On my part, the level of government is respected, so I am normal and I felt it logical to question the Council of Ministers from the state parlament. And if someone needed to use it and draw an answer, I thought it was a good order of things. However, I get an instruction on how to get my answer. Here's my thanks. I can't see. The benches are free, empty from the Council of Ministers. I was going to tell you gentlemen ministers to make an answer for the MP. That's how you keep your dignity. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10185	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović. I must say that the Council of Ministers, that the chairman, Mr. Terzić, has asked that we do not have a meeting Thursday, because there is a Council of Ministers meeting. I don't want to justify them, but we have, in light of the shortness of time related to these system laws, chosen Thursday for the meeting today, and we will make sure that it is not during the Council of Ministers' meeting so that they may be present even though it does not justify them that no one from the Council of Ministers is following the work of the Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council. Mr. Bešlagić answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10186	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I immediately say that I did not ask for an answer from the cabinet, but from the minister, and I think from now on we need to know who we are talking to and who should give us the answer. I am not satisfied with the foreign minister's cabinet's response to the question of his interview with the Vienna-based Dipresa list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10187	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. Who's next to the word? Ljilja Milićević, then Mr Gligorić. No, no, this is still whether people are satisfied or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10188	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues. Two months ago, I asked here the question of the outside appearance of our parliament, this plateau where we always have to look at it so we don't accidentally break our leg and ask what we're doing, or what we can personally do, at what stage is it? Afterwards it was a strengthened question, I think Mr. Džaferović asked a similar question. However, perhaps he will get an answer sooner. I didn't get an answer to my question, and now I'm asking you to see what we're planning for next year and I'm guessing we can get some donations to arrange it. And are we ready to single out a part of the means to make it as, so many people when people come to our side to know it's Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10189	I thank my colleague Milićević. Dr. Tihomir Gligorić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am not satisfied with the answer to the parliamentary question that Councilman Ratko Dubajić has not received in the municipality of Bihać means his 7 sadifaction as a committee member, where for years he does not want Commissioner Adnan Alijagić to pay him the funds that he has under the statutes and in the duties of the committees and in the working committees. Next. I got the answer which is a confirmation of discrimination. I will deliver to the Ministry of Human Rights that handled this and deliver new evidence saying that the man had not been given an apartment, has a record of being devastated, for the house, the verdicts he had to seek in court, and it is a matter of classical discrimination. I'll deliver everything. You can laugh all you want from the U.S.A., I'll deliver all the evidence I have new and re-route to the Human Rights Department that hasn't done its job with honor. In this country, there is discrimination on the rights and on the committee and on the local level. And it was all in the function that Commissioner Alijagić's self-will from Bihac was seen here through the Ministry of Human Rights and reached the summit of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. I Učinić do everything to make new evidence, hoping there will be no obstructions again, because the arguments will face rather than political responses as Mr. Alijagić wrote, and he accepted, unfortunately, the minister of human rights at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10191	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Who's next to the word? Please, who are you? There is no further comment on the answers to parliamentary questions. Who's answering new parliamentary questions? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10192	Mr. Chairman, I will no longer repeat my dissatisfaction, it stands as a constant question and you can only register it. I will ask a new question today, and it concerns the following - agricultural producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially farmers are in a very difficult situation that dramatically worsens free trade agreements with countries in the environment, because the subsidies that local agricultural producers have are incomparable compared to ours, and by opening borders that start in less than a month will lead to the total collapse of our agricultural production and agricultural producers. I will refer the question to the Council of Ministers – What is the intention of our government, or the government of entities? And I suggest that it be a synchronised and joint action. This is an urgent and burning issue for me in this country, and if activities are planned in this field, I ask whether it will be a moratorium on free trade contracts already in place or whether it will be a real increase in the subsidies that will sustain the country's agricultural production in life. 8 According to some budget, it should move around up to 5% of the budget, and today it is symbolic. The comparisons say that the total subsidies in the country's agriculture range up to 15 million KM, and in Croatia, for example, there are over a billion KM subsidies. I wonder in such relationships can this agricultural producer and this country wear when they finally open in a month and these borders? This is an alarming question for this country. Please and also request that these problems be addressed by the Government of this country and I request a thematic conference on this issue on which all relevant factors of this country would take part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10193	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad answered for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10194	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues you will remember for sure that this House of Representatives together with the House of Peoples was appointed in March this year by the Joint Commission which was in charge of establishing the procedure, that is, to carry out the procedure for calling competitions and laying down proposals for the Public Radio Television Service Board of BiH. As far as I'm concerned, the Commission has called a competition. Candidates who considered themselves eligible have applied, etc. As far as I know, the work has begun, but neither has it informed this Parliament, or this home, what it has done on this matter, and as far as I know, the procedure has been suspended. I know, as you do, that there are activities in the process of adopting, namely, the preparation of new laws that will regulate the issue of public radio television systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But my question to the Commission is, has she actually stopped her work? - If it is for what? – Which candidates applied for the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service? - And did she not, in fact, if she had to and if she had stopped working, inform Parliament of these reasons? I think it was necessary and necessary to do so, and if the Commission has informed the College, then the College should have done so with this House of Representatives, that is to inform it. So my question is addressed to the Commission to answer as soon as possible in writing. I'll also formulate this in writing. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10195	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10196	Ladies and gentlemen - is it true that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by its individual decision, provides a monopoly position for companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain office materials, equipment, software services, etc.? Therefore, I ask that the answers in the written form that these are companies and from which they are entities, and is it true that through this monopoly position, where it is contrary to the law, budget users are denied to use the law themselves in accordance with their financial means and responsibility based on a tender defined by that law, provide themselves with the necessary equipment, office material, etc. If that's true, I'm also asking a question here in writing whether it's in this way, in the sense that in one monopoly way there will be 10 million marks in function with, how accurate my information is, only three companies in Sarajevo can be provided a commission to fund the SDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10198	The speaker of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić, called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10199	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I have one question addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, OHR and the Office of the High Representative. - Why is the process of assimilation of Srbin in Mostar allowed in front of the eyes of the domestic and international public in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Ladies and gentlemen, the Office of the High Representative and representatives of the local government have formed a new Commission for the Construction of the Statutes of Mostar. Before the war in Mostar, there were almost 1/3 Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin. Today I have to say that in Mostar, the city administration of 126 employees, only 3 Srbin are employed, and if someone wants to build the future of Mostar, if they want Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat to continue living in that Mostar, then Srbin must also be represented in the Commission to create the Statute of Mostar. So I ask – who is playing this new division, who wants the process of assimilation to begin where the nations are in the minority? 10 Today it is Mostar, tomorrow it will be another major city, perhaps in Republika Srpska, in the Federation it is irrelevant. So I ask the question – How is it possible that there are no experts from the Serb people's order in Mostar where Chantic's grave is located, where Žitojsic and the monastery Žitomislić are talking about the eternal existence of Srbin in the town of Mostar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10200	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word was received by Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Jović, and Mrs. Hadžiahemtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10201	The esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues, invited me to this parliamentary issue by an invitation I found in front of me, so I ask the presidency, means members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency. - Who, when and at what level has found after the signing of the Dayton Agreement that November 25th Statehood Day of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10202	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10203	Ladies and gentlemen, in my work so far on parliamentary matters, I have mostly dealt with the problem of negative phenomena in our community. I saw your answers don't satisfy my curiosity, so I wanted to and I want to change the situation from today. In fact, a month ago, this question of mine will require a longer answer, so be patient. One month, a month and a half of the Chess Club from Kiseljak won third place in Europe in the chess competition and the domestic media found no matching writings, or at least in the Spanish newspaper block or in the sports review to be published. I thought it was an accident. But when we have a man out of our ranks who, with his hard work and the march, leaves the meetings and works to prepare the national team and goes to the world competition and the world competition in Nice in France wins third place, so then the media doesn't record it, and then I say it's not an accident. 11 I would like to congratulate Mr. Zorić, an esteemed representative and my dear friend, here for this speaker on the fact that the light represented our homeland and that he returned home with a medal. And I ask those who should worry, namely fellow Zorić I see that he has been uninformed, I am glad that you are uninformed, that you should be working on newspapers and television, but here they are ashamed, the president of the Bosniak Alliance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so let me say that, no matter what sport it is, it is important that he was a banner of this country and that he represented the interests of this country and that he won third place in Europe, he says it all by himself enough. And those who should worry about such results I'll ask them, are they even counting on that team to receive? If they have not already honored to send a quick message, congratulatory and whether they will single out what funds, because the team has gone mainly on the dear will of the donor and theirs, their mutual, mutually human relationship, so they have provided some money to do this kind of valuable and beneficial work. I ask that this answer be given by the Council of Ministers - will they accept this team and reward it? And yet again, I congratulate the honourable representative on the decent representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10204	I thank my colleague Jović. Dr. Živković picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10205	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me to be one of the MPs who has not received answers to questions. At least three so far. The questions were asked, no answer was received. And I will remind the Service that I have not yet received the question about the census and I am warning that I will put the next Assembly on the agenda – the census and the census in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so please send me the answer to that question as soon as possible. The sdrug foreign issue at the 20th session, I see that fellow MPs have received answers, I haven't received two questions. It concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina's intention to form a unit that will make available to NATO the Alliance in Iraq and the second issue of an initiative to schedule 100 scholarships for young people. But I won't give up any further than asking questions here. It is likely that a time will come when both this institution and the agenda will take an important place in this parliament, as in each parliament. 12 My question is addressed to the ministry, or to the Prime Minister, so let him divide to whom - Does the incidents that occurred in the Maglaj municipality, the village of Bocinje, in the last 30 days have elements of terrorist activities?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10206	Thank you. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10207	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, I have two questions. The first question is with an "emergency", I intended to ask the Council of Ministers for an oral response, given the urgency, however, unfortunately there is no one from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers, at its meeting on 2 October 2003 in a decision, so by means of a sublegal act, implemented amendments to the Customs Policy Act published in Official List No 31 of 21 October 2003, which injures the procedure for amending the law, as provided for by our legislation. The question is, who will be responsible for this? And what does the Council of Ministers plan to do to remedy the damages caused by this illegal decision? The second question – Why is the Council of Ministers, completely out of the problem caused by the Republika Srpska government's decisions to increase labour prices. The IMF partner is Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the Council of Ministers' negotiations. In co-ordination of activities with the IMF governor in the IMF, and in the current situation, the fuverners act as finance minister of the vault. Why does the Council of Ministers stay away from the potential problem of suspending an agreed stand-by arrangement whose consequences would be affected by The whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina? [[Doesn’t understand whether the word puts up with it or the word draws on it]] This is especially so that he is a signator of an arrangement with the IMF of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10208	I thank my colleague Hadžiahmetović. Dr. Kunić Petar called to say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10209	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would take the opportunity to answer Mr. Moranjkić's question about agricultural products. Indeed, that is a burning question. These are the issues that are right for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I think there are other aspects of political and not real issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say that the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has made 13 decisions to give an initiative to organise a special round table on which this issue would be addressed. So, that was yesterday at the session and we're going to carry out that initiative further. And I believe that's what's gonna happen. I called to ask the next question. This is the third time this question is asked - When will the realisation of pensions for citizens who have achieved one part of their internships in the former Yugoslav republics and one part in Bosnia and Herzegovina begin? So I'm asking this question the third time. A session with Croatia should be held at the 9th month. I don't know about the other republics. That's one of the more important questions. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a poor country, and it only loses funds like this. Please, this is about millions that Bosnia and Herzegovina is losing thanks to the fact that it has not concluded a convention with neighbouring countries. Please, our citizens go to other republics, give power to others, etc. have additional costs, instead of having those funds on our banks, or giro accounts. When the Rules of Procedure is brought in, I don't know now I don't memorize the Rules of Procedure, whether it stands in it that an interpretation can put into question the responsibility of a single minister. I think if it is not installed in the Rules of Procedure, this Parliament must establish it. So, by way of interpretation, it is debated by asking questions about the work of a single minister who is responsible for such matters as I am asking the question for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10210	I thank Dr. Kunić. Dr. Sead Avdić picked up the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10211	My fellow Members and fellow Members, the honored guests, would I ask the Council of Ministers with a request - that the Council of Ministers at the most recent time give an official, official, official response to the official, official request of the Serbian Government to correct the border line, especially at localities - the hydropower plant Zvornik and the Bajna Basta hydropower plant? By the way, the issue has been updated and requested by Serbia's president, Montenegro, recently at a meeting of the interstate council between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Serbia-Montenegro. Given that these hydraulic potentials are fully used by Serbia-Montenegro, and the combined hydro potentials of energy potentials, this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is losing large, large numbers of megawatts of hours of electricity, not to mention in figures, how much it is in KM. 14 In this context, it is of interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina to respond as soon as possible and to start a simple open discussion on these open issues between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10212	I thank Dr. Avdić. The Sopta Ruža came forward for the word. Here you go. I would ask my colleague Avdić to deliver the issue in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10213	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask a question about the other day of the reading in the paper. I wanted to ask the question - is it possible, but I will ask how it is possible not to mark this year the death of Croatian national return officers in Travnik? We know that these cops were killed and that it wasn't murder, not one murder, besides the others, I mean nine, none of them lit up. Since the murder of them isn't enlightened, and you don't know if it will, whether it's working. Obviously, we no longer have any information on this, at least this gesture, I believe that there would be a little encouragement for the returnees who should return to that area. This question was addressed to the Minister of Interior of the Central Bosnian County and I request a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10214	I thank my colleague, Ruža Sopta. Who's next to the word? No one's answering? Ladies and gentlemen, we are concluding the second item of the agenda. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. It's Ad. 3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers submitted the draft law on 7 November with a request to be considered pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You received the material at the 22nd session on November 12th. It is a law declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative, which was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 16/02. 15 I am opening a debate on the motion to vote on an emergency procedure. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10215	The speaker of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić, called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10216	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you know that when it was the Law on Personal Documents and when it came to personal documents that loud debates were conducted within both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that of course we adopted those laws. I am, of course, in this House for a long time, and I know what followed the debate about these laws, simply these amendments and additions imposed by the High Representative, there is, therefore, part of the amendments and additions that are absolutely acceptable to me, but the amendment and addition in Article 2 that absolutely means nothing, but simply, it is in the domain of psychological, not rational and I cannot understand, so I cannot understand, no matter what it is by the High Representative, I would like the man to be an MP, so at least we can in the MPs' benches to pay attention. In this way, I don't think there's any possibility of any controversy, except take it or leave it. But I am not prepared to accept this procedure, especially in Article 2 where it is said - the last position of Article 6 which is said to be deleted - the name of the entity can be entered in the ID card at the request of the person requesting the issue of the ID card. So if there's someone, it's part of the law provision although I guess it's when you do an analysis not used, but if someone wants such a change that doesn't bother the law, that they'd simply create a dissent with people for law enforcement on the ground, I'm absolutely against it. I don't think this provision bothered anyone, but nobody to apply the law. And I have to say, I'm against section 105, but I'm also against this kind of change. I hope I don't care what kind of comment there will be, I regret the Council of Ministers, so I regret that the Council of Ministers does not make such comments, which does not propose amendments to the functioning of this law. If this turns out to be a weak point in the realisation and implementation of the law, I'm up for it. But I'm convinced she's not a problem at all. So no problem at all. And here's why I won't support Article 105's procedure, but I won't vote for such a change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10217	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word was answered by Mr. Kunić, so Jovanović and Novaković, as I saw. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10218	Dear gentlemen, I must say that I fully share the position of the chairman of the House of Representatives. I'm really asking the question here who's having a hard time with this and how can you qualify the one who's bothering this? I know for a fact that it wasn't used, used this provision in practice. It wasn't actually used, but I don't know why, why delete it, why delete it? I could never accept this. I do not know when this assembly in Parliament will overcome the awareness that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a complex state, that it is a Federation and when we will also have a regulation, and also a way of thinking that this is a complex state community and that we have a model of law appropriate to that complex state community. Today we have a series of laws that are not suitable for the Federation, or the federal state community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10219	I thank Dr. Kunić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Jovanović and Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10220	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have an objection to Article 3. This is where the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications is mentioned. As far as I know, there's no such thing as a ministry anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10221	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10222	Dear colleagues, I'd just like to add a few words. We who were in the previous meeting in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament know well how much work and effort we have made to bring the CIPS project into line. One of the facts, or one of the attitudes that we are very difficult to come up with, is exactly the attitude of Article 2 of this Law, which is that it can be done at will or at the statement of whoever wants it can therefore indicate which entity it is from. And that's consistent. And it's on both homes in that text the last one. This is probably, if not the only one, and then certainly a rare case when the High Representative changed what was agreed between all of us in both homes. In itself, it makes this law even harder to verify here in this home. And seriously, the question is, can we really make a deal here, and does it even make sense for us to agree if someone can change that? It has nothing to do with this member now. In general, it is a question of whether our agreements that we know of are very difficult to come by ourselves have any weight if they can change so easily. 17 Of course the SDS Club will also be against this procedure, because we have so far been in all the laws imposed by the High Representative and against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10223	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to a plea. Who is therefore to accept the procedure of Article 105 concerning the request of the Council of Ministers concerning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Give us the results. Ladies and gentlemen of the 37 MPs present voted 19 against 12, abstentioned 6. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? From the Federation, then for 16, from Republika Srpska 2, so there is no entity majority. We're going to get a match. So we don't have... We're going to make a statement on the final text. Who's against the Federation? Done. Done. Who's against the Federation against? There isn't. Who's from Republika Srpska against? So against Republika Srpska 12, the Federation is no one. I find that we have not accepted the procedure of Article 105 concerning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen. It's Ad. 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Central Recording and Data Exchange, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and this legislative proposal were given to you at the 22nd session of November. The request is for the Council of Ministers to be adopted under Article 105. The law on a provisional basis was also declared by High Representative and published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 16/02. 18 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10224	Mr. Chairman, ladies and ladies MPs, distinguished guests, I apologize, but I thought I'd get word before at point 3. So I wanted to explain how this procedure came into effect, that is, the proposal that this law goes in accordance with Article 105, and I believe that, given that the decision of the High Representative has put this law into effect, and because of Parliament itself, it is good that it is voted that it could be changed precisely in this part in which MPs have observations. And I thought that after the vote on the procedure, there would be an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to plead with the law. Given that it isn't, here I guess I won't be able to change your decision, or I'm sure I won't be able to change my decision, but let me then, at point 4, make clarifications that apply in the same way to this law as to the previous one. So the laws were passed and published in December 2001 in Official Messenger 32/01. The laws have also been subject to amendments by the decision of the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, in July 2002. And that's why they didn't actually apply, because these changes and supplements were important. The decision found that the amendments and additions take effect on a provisional basis until the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament adopts them in the same form, without amendments and additions without additional conditions. So these name problems, too. So the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, that's exactly what it means to be the name of the ministry that was responsible for this job before. So the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act was adopted in December 2001 by the decision on amendments and amendments to the exchange by the High Representative and published in the "Official Messenger" 16/2002. It is indeed necessary that these amendments and additions go through the procedure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament on an urgent procedure in order to, as I said, comply with the regulation that gives you the opportunity to amend this law. In this case the changes and additions refer to the data storage area where the birth of the municipality is deleted, the country of birth, the point is added – data on fingerprints. The data transfer member deletes the entity, canton, municipalities and the country, adding points that regulate the violation of other public authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina data on fingerprints taken from individuals. So really, I ask you once again to understand that this is something that has been made as a decision that has come into effect. So I think, here's exactly why you put it in your discussions, it's important that you adopt it so that it can come, so that we can all be able to change those shortcomings together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10225	I thank Mr Tešanović, Deputy Minister. I think the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, that is, of course, my personal position, here I say it from here, I will not answer for a pay phone for the Council of Ministers to sit with the kancelarija of the visok 19 representatives and the OHR and to once begin to make laws and changes that we are prepared to accept in Parliament. You haven't said anything new to us, sir, sir. I guess the MPs here know that. But here the question arises whether we are responsible people to adopt the law in which it came, changes in the law to change the name of the ministry. So let the Office of OHR and the High Representative be made available. Well, at least we can have so much dignity towards this state home, not as much as any goose in the fog that comes to you to send to Parliament, even if you don't read it. I'd be ashamed to be in the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. Let's go. Who's picking up? Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10226	Ladies and gentlemen, as at the previous point, and now related to this point 4, regarding the Law on Recording and Exchange of Data, I am, above all, not asking MPs not to accept Article 105, because the argument that we have received is actually an insult to this Parliament, so it would be good for the Council of Ministers, in particular the Ministry, to come as a processor to finally be able to harmonize everything necessary and necessary, which should be done by the executive power in order to clear up a lot when it comes to Parliament, and not that we in Parliament have to do some things that they did not properly end up in executive power. Here to say that MPs should know that when the OHR, the High Representative, imposes a law, we have the opportunity to adopt it at Parliament in order to have the opportunity and opportunity to change and supplement what we want. Well, these MPs know that, and it's not an argument, but it seems to you that when some OHR reference comes, you accept it, and it's an emergency in this country. Why would it be an emergency in this country, if you could wait so long, now you can't wait seven days to go, or 15 by a shortened procedure to go into the regular procedure that every parliament in the numbered country implies. Nothing is urgent in this country the way it is placed. And one more thing is that, unfortunately, we never have a full council of ministers here, it would be good for the future work of the ministry that has its deputies, which solves things by consensus, and then raises them to the level of the Council of Ministers, and then they discuss there some things by consensus as provided for by the Council of Ministers Act, and not by one of the wrong works to come here to Parliament where we should have a debate because it was poorly prepared in that executive government. So I ask you to keep an eye on us, you have as a congregation majority elected these MPs, and do you have the courage to protect Parliament's dignity as a congregation majority, and to protect your leaders sitting in executive power and being older than you, you say we will not be machines and puppets. But gentlemen, the leaders who are there in the ministerial chair are doing your job in accordance with the law, not improvising as it is in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10227	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić picked up the phone. 20 No, no, Sead Palavrić, then Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Ćeman. That's how it's recorded. I'm sorry possible, but maybe I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10228	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I just want to correct some of the allegations that I think are guilty of, which Mr Gligorić said. What the Deputy Minister said should not offend Parliament at all. Those are facts and we need to accept it, we need to be aware of it. We don't have to accept these laws. They will apply on a provisional basis for life. We act like that, so we'll always have laws so imposed. I think this parliament should offend the fact that today we only need to adopt this law, instead of adopting it a long time ago, and if we wanted to change something in it. The leaders in the executive power today, I think they are far, far more serious and more working than the leaders when one of them was Mr. Gligorić in executive power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10229	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. And I agree that it can be adopted sooner, but we can only adopt when we win. The question here is why we haven't gotten it in the process in a year. So, please don't go to Parliament, because Parliament is not responsible. Mr. Gligorić's replica, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10230	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, he's blaming the quote. I was no leader, nor was I in the Socialist Party in office, as I do not now, according to the Law on Conflict of Interest, since the government has resolved me from the position of director, and I do not mean vice president of the Socialist Party, therefore, the second is that I look like a leader. That's good. Maybe my time will come. And coming generations and programs, unfortunately, this is for easy use. Next. I was talking about one procedure when you as a congregation majority were looking for a procedure in which legal procedures should be respected. You have never, but it is important to you that you keep on your mobile phone, says the party leader and you listen and all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina know it. And next. I didn't say in that sense insults like insults in terms of what she has in daily use on the street. I was talking about Parliament's satisfaction and dignity and that's how my discussion should have been understood. Because the executive power as it works is not given to God, and what they do is not perfect and we as Parliament need to always criticize them and be one of them so that they can be better. I, as an opposition, am happy that they are doing bad things, because it will be recognised by the citizens and we, I hope, will quickly vote in trust with such a government. There. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10231	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10232	I don't want to talk about leaders or the Federation or anything. but I will remind and try to warn the other side of the medal. I fully agree with people who hold to Parliament's dignity, procedures, etc., but I remind you of the following. We have this because there was no majority in this House and the will to be one ID card in this country, to be a central data record in this country, to have the matter in this area arranged in normal European states. That's why we have this now. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10233	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10234	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've only come out to notice one thing. If the Council of Ministers offends this Parliament by proposing as its proposal to confirm this Parliament what the High Representative has declared because this Parliament did not have the strength to come to some solutions, then you and your fellow Špirić have recently offended this Parliament, because you yourself have proposed several laws that we have adopted, but the problem seems to be that when you propose some laws to confirm them, then Parliament is not offended, and when the Council of Ministers does so for the same reasons, then Parliament is offended. That's a weird logic. I just wanted us to notice that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10235	Replica. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10236	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, the replica in this sense, we understand each Ćeman very well. It is not true that Parliament did not have the strength, Mr. Ćeman. I've been sitting in that parliament and invested a lot of nerve and effort to get to these laws, rather than making a deal here between the executive and OHR, so what they can't swallow is best known by the High Representative. I'm against that kind of service that way. I am to open the debate and to change what is in the interest of this country. No, I think it's the biggest damage to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and many of them are in favour of it. So it's not true that the laws were passed. I have contributed to the adoption of these laws. It would also contribute to the adoption of amendments which are a hindrance to the law. Who asked us? Was there any attempt on our part to argue, so we failed? Please make it clear to the public. There was no such attempt. If there was no mood within the Council of Ministers, so the High Representative did 22 for them, then why do they interpret it to us to interpret the OHR or the High Representative. And I'm not just thinking about this Council of Ministers meeting. Of course. Please be nice, so let's just get along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10237	Excuse me, Mr. Novaković. Replica Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10238	Dear colleagues, I think there is absolutely no need for this debate. We're wasting time, I mean, we have important projects today that we need to discuss. There are even more of us who are here a little longer in Parliament, if they are two or three years long. I can say for myself that I also participated in Parliament's work when this law was passed and I did not vote for it as Parliament has proposed, because it was then compromised in Parliament at the expense of the Council of Europe's standards and the High Representative's intervention is actually harmonising the law with the standards of the Council of Europe. Let the public know that's it, that's it. I mean, it's an old story about the I.D. Act. Let's move on, let's do the job. Vote, the law is in force, let it be stated who will be here in Parliament. Let's do these other jobs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10239	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10240	Dear colleagues, I answered because I really don't get it. I don't know how I got all this big talk about anything. Well, Mr. Gligorić has, at least 15 times raised his hand for the procedure under article 100 to the imposed laws of the High Representative and never discussed it once. To much harder members of the law than these. And nothing has ever been disputed. And now it's suddenly controversial. And with such big words, I should have changed the Council of Ministers by proposing an emergency procedure law imposed by the High Representative. I'm so that there's really a lot to change in the Council of Ministers over there, but because he forced the High Representative to blame them, I really don't understand it. I think we're wasting our time on this, if someone wants to advertise, I'd make a fund here to pay it off without it being for nothing, because there's no free commercials anywhere, so I don't see why it would be here thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10241	I beg colleagues with more dignity to each other to work hard. So everyone here has a chance to say what they think, and this is Parliament, not a advertising fund, if someone thinks they can be counter-speciesed, let them do it freely. Is it a replica, Mr. Gligorić? Come on, but I'm asking you not to replicate too much, so we can finish this point if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10242	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is, Mr. Novaković went out for a pay phone and said he didn't understand anything. So do I. Why should I comment on that? But there's a difference here. We are talking today about amendments and amendments to the law, and at least so much we can have the dignity of the parliamentary procedure that at least we propose amendments and additions in the regular procedure. If the laws were someone I supported by article 105, and I evaluated by my conscience, not on my cell phone as my boss tells me. But when it comes to changing and supplementing today, can't changes and additions go into regular procedure and accept it. Here, that should make a meaningful difference, what the law is, and what the amendments and the additions to the law are.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10243	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić answered the words. Here you go. I think we're bringing the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10244	I will, I won't say this as Mr. Novaković, I don't understand anything, but I don't understand some things. First, this parliament must pass the laws passed by the High Representative under Article 105 and only when it adopts that law will we enter into amendments and additions in principle or 105, or I would say in a regular procedure. I am now asking, since the Assistant Minister has told me that this law has also been passed at the request of the High Representative, whether Parliament has passed that law and can we now change these amendments and supplement them. That's the question we need to get an answer for. Another question that no one here has asked. What does this law supplement mean besides what we might get for quality, quantity? There is one thing that no one seems to have read, and it reads -- to implement these laws requires certain funds to be provided at 32,969 thousand KM and then said through the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' 2002 and 2003 budgets. Are these gentlemen additional funds to be provided at the end of 2003, this year? 24 So if that's all done, and I know when I was taking my ID card, I have to say that I've been photographed, that I've written the address I live in, I think I've given a fingerprint, I don't know, or more fingers. If that's already done, then these funds don't need them here. Give us an explanation of some things if we're going to discuss some of the essential elements, and one of the essential elements here is funding, except for the fundamental question that concerns this. Can we now amend, or amend the law, the amendments if this law is not adopted here by this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10245	We adopted him.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10246	So we adopted him. So it can change. I'm in favour of a regular procedure and an answer to this question of 32 million.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10247	Business intervention. Here you go. Business intervention Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10248	This law cannot be changed in Parliament until Parliament adopts it. We are, please nice. We passed the I.D. and Central Records Act. Please, just a minute, please. However, the law, the law on something, is also the law on amendments and amendments to the law, so the law on amendments and amendments to the law is also the law. We are today discussing the law on amendments and amendments to the law imposed by the High Representative and until we adopt the law on amendments and amendments to the law, we do not have the right to amend it as Parliament and do not confuse Parliament by saying that we have adopted, that you have passed the basic law. You have not passed the law on amendments and additions and that you now have the right to amend the law on amendments and additions because you have passed a fundamental law. You have no right until the law on amendments and additions is passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10249	Business intervention. Mr. Špirić's chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10250	Please nice, no one defends. Whoever answered the word will have the right to speak. I don't have anyone on record to talk. No application, this is a matter of discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10251	I ask you to answer your word as the Rules of Procedure are respected and we stick to it. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10252	This is not a debate that takes place within the Colleges, but within Parliament. We've passed the basic law. So they passed the basic law on personal documents. The question is, if that didn't work, why hasn't the Council of Ministers launched the changes? And we can change the basic law, and we can't change this one about changes and additions. That's right. But the basic law we can do. And nobody slows it down. So it's not true that we can't change the basic law, because we adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10253	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10254	Mr. Deputy Minister Tešanović is looking for, and then Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am really trying to understand all the MPs here in this house and I respect all your opinions, but as far as it is to clarify some facts, I really want to read to you the decision that the High Representative has declared these two laws, or two decisions, are, but here, by reading one decision, it will be clear what it says in the other. So, the decision explaining the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, i.e. here we are now discussing the central record and the exchange of data as it continues in the given text. The law following the entry into force under Article 7 of that law, but on a provisional basis until the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopts it in the same form without amendments and additions and any conditions. This was published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger, and MPs have indeed had the opportunity to discuss this. This is really one topic that's much wider, and I'm not sure that this law is the point where it needs to be discussed. The decision comes into force immediately and is immediately announced in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger and in the official ballots of both entities and Brcko District.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10256	I thank Deputy Minister Tešanović. For her word, she gave up Mrs. Palavrić. Yeah. We've improved, so Mrs. Palavrić gave up, I thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 26 We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers to propose a law amending and supplementing the Central Record and Exchange of Information in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105? Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? A little faster if you can add it up. Ladies and gentlemen, 38, of the 38 present for 22, versus 9, abstention 6. We need an entity vote. From the Federation who's in favour? From Republika Srpska who's in favour? So from Federation 21 for, 1 from Republika Srpska. So we don't have an entity majority. We're going to get a match. Since there is no third member of the College, so it remains to be agreed that we should report to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to agenda five. It's Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina By wanting to inform you that 5 to 12 will take a break, as the College has an obligation to receive a visit from the Prime Minister of Luxembourg. We'll have a break from 5 to 12 there to 1 o'clock. But I suggest we finish this part of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, no, we're not going any further. I thought it was half past 12. Okay, so we're working till 5 to 12. The proposal for this law was adopted in the first reading at the 20th session of the House on 13 October 2003. At the 21st session, Dom adopted a conclusion giving a 10-day deadline for the amendment. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a new report to the MPs at the 22nd session on the grounds that the MPs were late to receive a report on the proposal of the Chair of the Constitutional and Legal Commission given to MPs the time for any amendments to the amendments to the Commission. Meanwhile, we received amendments submitted by Šefik Džaferović. It is the amendments to the amendments to the Commission. So as you have seen, Mr. Džaferović has 8 amendments and challenges all 8 amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this is about one thing, about the changes and the additions where it has been done a lot, where the Constitutional and Legal Commission has done a lot, and we have tried, of course, to keep in mind those demands and suggestions that came from the Standing Committee of Elections of the OHR Office. And today, the Expansive College has concluded that, in order for us to do so, 27, we propose to Parliament that we do not open wide debates today to form a committee, let's say, from members of the College of the Permanent Election Commission and that the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission be a member of this committee, so together try to define a solution that would be proposed to parlamentar for adoption, to avoid, say, the simple destructions that are possible under this law, including the different media interpretation of proposals and the work of MPs on this law. So I'd like to pray that today we don't have a wide debate but that we accept this proposal from the extended college. It seems to me to be the most rational solution if there are no other proposals, of course. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ćeman, then Dr. Hasan Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10257	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I generally have no objection and that we are going that way, and that Parliament is also declaring amendments. If there is already a view of this at home to form this commission, then I would suggest, although I have no objection to myself and as a member of this House or the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission being a member of this committee, but to be one of the members of Parliament who has invested amendments that have in some way significantly influenced the concept of the law, because I really want to be here and I have to say that the commission has not just been irresponsible to the amendments. It was a question in the range of whether solutions in a law which is valid are collapsing or not encollecting with human rights in a particular segment, etc. etc. It would therefore be correct to give the opportunity in the end, if the position of this House is therefore to form the commission that some of the MPs who have tabled significant amendments are also participating in such a future job. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, I think we could work today by making a statement about the new amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10258	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Dr Hasan Muratović picked up the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10259	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to make a procedural remark. This law, i.e. the draft law on amendments to the law, passed all the envisaged parliamentary procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission gave its report. The report was used by a member of the House College to make amendments to the amendments. So there are all the conditions for discussing and voting here on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report and amendments to the amendments. So there's absolutely no reason to take this point off the agenda, and if there was any need to take it off the agenda, and not put it on the agenda. So the College should agree not to put it on the agenda. That's the first one. Secondly, I want to take the opportunity here to state my position on a completely inappropriate way of working on this bill and in an entirely inappropriate communication of the Office of the High Representative with this Parliament. Let me first say something about the essence of that law. This law is absurd in some of its provisions, in some it is stupid completely, and in some provisions it violates fundamental human rights, fundamental human rights. It's not the first time we've had laws coming here, either to adopt or to come up with proposals that violate fundamental human rights. I would like to remind you of the Tax Bill that we will then consider in which the proposal stood and still states that the citizen, or citizen of this country, does not have the right to be chair of the Supervisory Board of the Directorate, or as it is already called for indirect taxation. Look, it's non-discrimination, neocolonial discrimination, it's neo-rasism. Be careful, it is a racist provision that the resident, citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be the president of the body established by this parliament. I want to point to one tendency. Secondly, there is a debate about the law. A list of close sources by the High Representative today is making a harangu which is completely incorrect in one list and scares Parliament before making a decision. Totally incorrect information. Watch what absurdity is in that law, and what an absurdity is in that close source. He says MPs want to enable private businesses to be established by law. And this law is, to be absurd completely until the end, allowed officials to have their own businesses, and they are the only ones who are not allowed to work in these companies. Watch that absurd, please. And now that that absurd is required to be corrected, then one great haranga is being carried out. I have proposed to the members of the Constitutional Commission, i.e. their president, after the letter to the High Representative, to respond to the High Representative that we have unusually appreciated his warning, that we have postponed the debate on the law in order to consider his remarks and that we ask that at least one law be delivered to us by a country that is a member of the EU so that we can compare what has been proposed to the amendments and what is in the existing law. I have learned that it has been announced to some High Representative experts that we are ready and I also think that we would be willing to adopt without a word the Law on the conflict of interest of any EU country. I think that's fair. It is also fair to show us what experience these are in the EU, because as you know, we want to start accession negotiations, not to respond to that requirement. It is indeed that law rigid, but you know these are specific conditions etc. I'm telling you, in no colonial country has it been said that her citizen cannot be the president of any body of that country. It's just that such a policy has been implemented that he can't. But it wasn't in the law. And the law of this country requires that it be written. I would like to inform you dear colleagues and colleagues here that if such formulations are adopted and this law is not changed by January that I will ask the Committee, the Legal Committee and the Political Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to assess this law from the aspect of human rights, and if 29 do not receive an apology because no citizen can be the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Tax Administration and for that law to assess the similarity of the people who propose such laws to us here. I deeply want us to do our duty here with the highest dignity, but I also want people who can be members of Parliament not to be made of us unless nobody else will. And the Law of Conflict of Interest literally says that. He says that you can only be a member of Parliament if you are not capable of anything else that is number one and number two if you are mostly sterile in your family and you have no relation. Let me give you an example of that. There in one member of the Law stands this way – your uncle, aunt's son, aunt's son, and uncle's uncle's son, etc. If you were to sell bread or pastry to this restaurant downstairs, you can't be a member of Parliament. There are people who have, whose grandfathers had 10, 11 children, whose fathers had 7, 8 etc. Believe that list can't be filled in by some people. It's an absurd list that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. You can't round up those cousins on the continents who are wanted to get them information that you wouldn't be breaking the Law of Conflict of Interest because you have a cousin in Australia. You understand. So I think it's very unfair that no one calls on them to talk to them, but wants to talk to them through the press, through close sources, etc. So why didn't anyone call on any of the promoters to talk to him reasonedly and show him some European law. I've put in a fundamental remark that repeats itself, because that's how the law repeats itself. I don't want to read it here, but be careful, I've prescribed it from a very democratic country, and I've found it to be an observation from very confidential sources. So, I'm asking you not to delay this, and we may not be voting the law, but it's worth talking about, and I'm asking you, I've heard from a few officials literally this sentence. When I ask him if you think so, he tells me like this. Well, you know I don't think so, but the pressure is so strong that I have to do it. Be careful, pressure, blackmail, and even engage intelligence services in compromise, etc. They are completely inhuman, non-democratic, not appropriate methods. I'm personally prepared to discuss every proposal I make. And I ask him if he won't call me why he's not ready to discuss it with me. Do you know why? Allow me one immodest thing, because it's inferior. When I read his references and he's mine, I decide to talk to him so he doesn't talk to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10260	I thank Dr. Muratović. I think the good part and most of his exposure stands. I have suggested, unfortunately, amendments to the Law on indirect taxation on this background and have not even passed the commission of this same home, but we will see that point of the agenda coming. Dr. Tihomir Gligorić answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10261	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the Law of Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions and it is true that the Office of the High Representative has imposed the law. It is also true that we in the 30th Prelmentary Assembly have accepted it as such and what Mr Muratović said and the qualifications relating to this law on stupidity that stands there and on human rights violations in that law are, in some ways, critical of ourselves. That says a lot about how we attend certain legal decisions, when we're allowed that crumb to do a little bit and we fix the law. I agree with the kolegij, who suggested the conclusion that we can come out of this situation in the way they suggested, including Mr. Ćeman with his supplement, which I consider appropriate to be someone in front of the proposer of important amendments is a solution, precisely so that at this stage we would not now violate human rights and that it might not happen to us from the examples that Professor Muratović spoke of was visible and I consider this one of the better discussions in this House. I could sign everything that's been said, but I can't help but think that I can't comment just for a little while that there aren't such solutions in colonial countries either, that we're humiliated so that we can accept a legal solution from any of the countries of the European Union, which is all true. I felt in that good discussion, and I fully support one regret or for the former country, when citizens were sovereign and their politicians were real politicians, when we were able to do what we wanted in that sovereign country and the key question was raised, gentlemen. Foreigners didn't come here alone to make us this house according to their interests. Someone invited them here. He didn't even call, but because of the stupidity and tribal relations and the national parties, who didn't know through dialogue to solve the issue in their country, we got practically one kind of occupation, protectorate, and we regret it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10262	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I could just help out a little bit, ask Dr Muratović to see if we can accept what he was talking about. I think we need to come up with a good legal text. It's not our goal today to adopt something that's bad. It is really important for us to have Parliament decide that MPs can work. My proposal, namely our proposal from the College, is that these amendments, which have been put to work, be Mr. Muratović to be Mr. Ćeman as chairman of the Commission, to be a College and to be a member of the Election Commission, to be Mr. Petar Kunić and Ivo Miro Jović. These are, mostly, the people who have submitted the most amendments and that this is the commission and I think that might be a compromise solution. I said I, Dr Hasan Muratović, that it might choose this compromise solution, just to come to the text of a law that MPs think is good. Can we make Dr. Murtović here? Let's put forward your proposal to declare today's amendments and the law. I don't mind, first of all, saying about the amendments and the law, I have to be honest. So, I'm putting my first proposal to the College for discussion. We'll put Dr. Muratović on the debate. Who is it to form this commission, in this composition? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? 31 I think it is the commission's task to finish the job in twenty days and offer Parliament a solution. Do we agree on a 20-day deadline? We agree. Thank you very much. So, ladies and gentlemen, from the 38, - 34 is for - versus 2 and abstention 1. I konstatovati that this conclusion of the College has been accepted. Is there any point in going to the vote, Mr. Muratović, if you insist we vote on your conclusion? If you insist, I'll put it on, I have to respect the threshold, but I think this statement shows. Here I'm asking you not to insist, we've formed a commission, I understand yours. Who is for Dr Muratović's proposal to make a statement today, to declare our amendments and the bill's proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Why would it be the opposite?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10263	On the contrary, you're delaying and you want to plead..
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10264	Please give me the results of the vote. Just a little patience. Of the 38 present for 10 – versus 13 – abstention 6. I konstatuj, unfortunately, one number of MPs did not vote, so this proposal was not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, that's where we ended up walking the agenda point, excuse me five. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, second reading – MP Sead Palavrić's proposal for a bill was adopted at last session in the first reading. The Constitutional and Legal Commission supported the law in the proposed text. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate. Who answers the word Mrs. Sead Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10265	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you can see, the first reading has passed and before the Constitutional Commission was one amendment that has not been accepted. I'm so glad he's not renewed. I hope you will support this law. However, before we approach the vote, I ask the chairman to allow me, on my behalf, to present on behalf of Mr. Danijel Lindval several reasons for the 32 that I have proposed this law, which justify the norms that I have proposed in these two members. He's here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10266	Well, I beg you, since you're the promoter. If my colleague's the one who suggested it, let him explain it. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10267	So wait, please. Do I have the right as a promoter and as an agent to use the professional assistance of institutions? Ombudsaman BiH is an institution, and I ask that Mr. Lindval be allowed only to say a few words, which he said on the Constitutional Commission. It's my right.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10268	Okay. We got it. That's your request. We'll put him on a plea. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10269	Well, that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10270	Well, of course you should. Parliament is Parliament. We'll get to the bottom of this. We've come to understand the suggestion. Who is it to address Mr. Lindvi at the request of Seade Palavrić? I mean, we were just talking about dignity. Who's against it? Are there any government? So, I'm sorry, he didn't pass the proposal. We need to make a statement about the law. Is anyone there to report for raps? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Who's for this proposal, Mrs. Palavrić? I mean, the law. Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 35 present there were 29 – no – abstentions 6. I konstatuj that we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions in a second reading, MP Sead Palavrić. In that sense we showed that there was no need for some professional interpretation and yes, it was simply the only reason. We're moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to the 7th item of the agenda. 33 Ad.7. Proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in BiH in the second reading at the 22nd session of the Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system adopted in the first reading. At that time, the home concluded that the MPs were given a seven-day deadline to submit amendments and a new report to the commission. The Commission submitted a new report on 18 November. As you saw in the committee report, 15 amendments were adopted. We received a number of amendments after the committee's report, so I will remind you: Momčilo Novaković two amendments, to the amendment committees. The amendments they wish to defend again in the plenary phase were submitted by Nikola Špirić, Momčilo Novaković, Muhamed Moranjkić, Ruža Sopta and Vinko Zorić, Filip Andrić, Munib Jusufović, Zoran Spasojević. Now, those are the amendments we got. I'm opening a debate on the law on indirect taxation in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10271	I think it would be good to hear the proposal's position on the new amendments that are here today at the debate and it would be good otherwise, if the motionary were more involved in the debate on this law. Thank you. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10272	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate on the law on the indirect taxation system in BiH in the second reading. Therefore, the debate on amendments and the declaration of amendments. The law of the indirect taxation system in BiH is therefore the result of the compromise of political structures in BiH and the amendments that are invested in amending certain fundamental principles of the law are, in fact, amendments against this law, I interpret them so. Since, therefore, I repeat myself in BiH after hard talks and agreements, certain principles and solutions in the law are agreed. Our Finance and Budget Committee has submitted the latest report and the report therefore shows that the Commission has accepted 15 amendments and that is what is an integral part of the text of this law. Martina, as long as you're behind the pay phone, I've never been in a word, and I'm asking you to refrain. I didn't do it to you. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that we have this law today so that all those who have tabled the amendments will give up the amendment and we will declare ourselves to the law. It's the only way and way to get to the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10273	I thank my colleague Džaferović. I'll take my word for it. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10274	Mr. Špirić Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10275	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot force Mr. Belkić to force the motionor or reporter to declare when we received the report in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10276	Let me explain some things a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10277	Well, we can't force someone if they won't answer the word. Why would they drive someone now? I beg you, this is a matter that MPs should discuss without anxiety. I've got all the necessary reports I need to decide on this law. If someone hasn't won. Tell him what reports he didn't get to take a break. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to say about this law is going to be similar to what I was talking about the principles relating to the law. I ask my colleagues that when MPs submit amendments not to interpret them as against the law. So, for reforming the tax system for reform, for introducing VAT, therefore, reform, yes, but as far as I'm concerned, the bad law doesn't. I don't know how much effort anyone's put in, so by my assessment, a bad compromise, I'm less interested in that. Those who worked on the compromise, I guess they'll vote for the law today. I don't, absolutely don't argue. But it's not good to take the right to people who want a better law not to say what they think should be better. We were just listening to Mr. Muratović say what kind of segregation it is that a BiH citizen, not only BiH, but a country that was created by the decomposition of the former Yugoslavia, so of the 21 million people, if I don't speak now, here I would do well to speak out of the 4 million inhabitants in BiH not the president of the Commission for indirect taxation. Unfortunately, that amendment of mine didn't go through with the commission. It was a key principle. There's been a change. The change was made to make it possible, but remains a stranger. So someone has reached that compromise and it is known, perhaps for what reasons. It's already known here who's going to be in this whole thing, but I don't argue that this should be voted today, that those who think it's good to vote because, but just as it doesn't make sense that someone thinks if I make remarks that I'm against reform. Therefore, that principle is not corrected, nor in Article 35 where it is said that an annual review of the administration will be carried out within five years, etc. I think we must develop the home institutions of the Audit Office to which this will be the task, as a revision of all other institutions in BiH. Article 32 intends to enter the structure of the property, to privatise. It's not the task of this law. Therefore, it is a reform of the tax and customs system, not a law regulating the level of the rule of law of the current tax and customs administrations. So that principle is not respected. Then the principle of responsibility is not built in to carry out, therefore, obligations under this law, especially when it comes to consensus. If a consensus within 30 is not reached in an important matter, it can be within the law that the question of impeachment will be raised, 35, and you will see that every important thing will be a consensus. Why do you want arbitration here at all costs? For every decision where there is no consensus, it's an arbitration procedure. Why are we doing this? Then, therefore, the same question remains for the chairman of the committee in which it is elected. I, of course, suggested amendments. Parliament will declare them. I don't think you have a say in these amendments. Then Article 21 of the income distribution. We are now entering a new phase when no one came out of our social account and said, for the current state institutions, therefore, the current level of state institutions or, possibly, new ones, by this taxation system, we will have so much money in the government's register. So we're going to have so much money that we're not going to talk about whether there's a billion, five hundred million, two hundred million left, that we're not playing games like that in the hands of criminals, but to know how much money we're going to raise and how further distribution is going to be made to entity budgets. So this is, absolutely, a change in the principles of the constitutional way of financing BiH institutions. That should be made public. I don't mind it coming to that, but to be told it's going to be further. If anyone in this House knows, this is when we adopt this in what way these institutions will be financed in. I don't know ladies and gentlemen. I'm looking for that answer and you know what, no, no, you can't know that. Only when we adopt this law will we tell you what it will be like. So when you adopt two bad laws, then it's logical to adopt a third one that you can have a certain level of objections. And, of course, if I didn't speak any further, regardless of my remarks and principles, I regret that there was no strength, no will, or, as they say, the pressures were so strong that it just didn't come out to meet those amendments. Third thing, when it comes to these regional centers. The first proposal was for it to be Banja Luka, Mostar, Brcko and Sarajevo. There's been a change, so now it's Tuzla and it's not Brcko. I have proposed an amendment to be Banja Luka, Brcko, Sarajevo, Mostar and Bijeljina's first proposal. I have a right to suggest that. Why would someone tell me I'm against the state if I suggest. Who calculated what that irrationality meant. You know, we have an answer from representatives of the international community, he says it's irrational. Okay. Give me, I want to see how much money there's going to be in the state register, based on this law, and how much they're going to drag these regional centres out so I can say, yes, really people, this is irrational, so whether anyone in this state's system law is going to offer an account, or whether it's going to be a naked policy, a political story and a conflict in the regions. I therefore ask you to make it quite logical that this law, before the adoption of this law, we have at least one study of 200 – 300 pages of economic accounts and that we know what the state of BiH will look like and how we will finance it. Is this good? What's the next step? Whether entity budgets can also withstand the current level of institutions that exist to finance. I'm also talking about amendments and principles. I'm explaining them a little bit. I know, really, nobody should be angry. I truly respect the will of this House to vote and bring this together in a second. Of course, it's all about the amendments. I won't say anything that isn't in the amendments. So, I don't think there's been a shift on this bill. I remain with the amendment, if the will of the Prlamenta is to accept the amendment, I am willing to accept 36 laws, if not, leave myself as an MP in the state parliament, so that I can seek amendments to the law, to change solutions. If we all say today that this is ideal, then why fight to change something that's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10278	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word. Mr. Spasojević reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10279	Me and this time I have to express my regret, simply to say the passive bottom of the bill promoter. So, by not being ready to start out in some way, so I'm talking about the Council of Ministers, I'm talking about the Resolute Ministry, and I'm talking about further explanations, additional information that can help understand and define MPs when it comes to this law. I want to say, we will support the law, with the report that we received from the Finance and Budget Commission, of course, with the right of every MP to go with the amendments and on each amendment we will be determined, but it is very important to say for a short time, probably some MPs did not receive a report in time, etc. They didn't read it. Significant progress on the authentic and original text of the law that we received in the parliamentary procedure, through two or three meetings of the Finance and Budget Commission, has been made. Politics, policy-making has been moved from the board of directors to the Council of Ministers, or the resolution ministry. The deadlines, which were completely undefined, in terms of starting preparations, will work on it, are specified. When it comes to the participation of strangers, the whole thing is turned around. There's been some possibility that he could be a stranger, a leftover possibility, and he's basically a domestic. So, a series of improvements, thanks to the work and the neighbours of your amendment, are made and I ask you to focus now on this amendment which is left and to move towards the adoption of the law, of course, if we get most of it. I said in the beginning, we'll finally figure out a bill to back up. I only ask the promoter to explain to us, because I am a lot of advocates, i.e. the Party for BiH has advocated equalising the position of domestic producers and importers of certain products. The amendment could not receive support on the committee by the proposings, so some compromise was found in Articles 25 and 27. I was told then by experts from the Commission and by the promoter that these are solutions that go in that direction. I'd like to hear you say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10280	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Spasojević came forward for his word. Here you are, Mrs. Marić, Minister of Finance and Treasury. I apologize to Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10281	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I am going to take advantage of the opportunity I did not take last time, which is to address you first, in terms of release, or in the final procedure of this law. 37 You know all about the law now. The promoter suggested what he suggested. The promoter is still behind his stances, but the promoter has also proposed a procedure by which you can plead. So we could have shortened the procedure, not accelerated it, but we offered the possibilities, you took it upon yourself to give these amendments. The predictor said everything he had. For the first time on a commission that lasted 6-7 hours and on both the second and second committee that lasted a few stops, means much less, means after, however, a more detailed study of the law by the MPs. The law certainly needs certain improvements. These improvements can be divided into two, two ways. There are really these legal new technical improvements, which are always required by such laws and there are certain things that can be fixed in someone's opinion and broken by someone else's. We thought as legislators, as the Council of Ministers that we maintained consistency in the law. A few articles were controversial. You've made a million remarks, you're entitled to that. So, what we can plead as a proposing is, we ask Parliament to approach the vote and really slowly and carefully understand and this other part of the amendment that has remained, that we finally adopt this law, that we then review it afterwards and move towards its realization. Four or five laws are immediately under the law, which will be fully regulated by this area. The remarks that follow that the law is unsecured, that there is no direction, that there is no idea what is going to be done, that there is no knowing how the funds will be shared, are basically, but this law does not need to be talked about. His task is to set a course for the movement, related to establishing a new way of taxing. So, in Article 23, he says a way of taxing by the system will be established, according to the VAT system, a brand-new tax system. He really says the revenues will go to one account, which means something really new to this country, and then we go to strengthen a single economic space, we establish it completely. When it's gonna be, how it's gonna be, it's up to you. So, when we adopt this law, we must, within six months, adopt other laws, which will complete the area, and within the framework of the adoption of these laws, mean, already when the reform of the reorganisation of the customs service begins, it will be known, in fact and physically, what will happen to the property, to the people, then you will be able to say this is not responding, so when a plan is made to declare it, and individual other laws will talk about all other topics. The Single Account Act, which means how it will be paid into that account, speaks specifically about the sources of income and the account that holds the funds and the distribution of funds from that account. Then we'll have to, how we'll distribute states, entities and whether cantons and counties need to be in that law. This is really a framework law. He can't solve a million other questions, which, we still have to work on. So, I'd really like you to understand, as well, the promoter who wants this law really to be passed, who wants good cooperation with you. We will try to present this law, present the following laws in a better way. Not by talking and convincing in this way, we're going to make real presentations, which will be very satisfying, in which you'll be able to see all the details. Maybe this time and that presentation didn't go the right way, but here, for the other laws, we'll do a little better. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10282	I only have one question. I would like to thank Minister Ljerka for making her point of view regarding this law. I don't dispute, so it's not a controversial new way of taxing. So in a political sense, no one argues, but Article 21 is an unconstitutional member. So he defines a new method of distribution, so it's not a controversial new tax system. There's not even one account in question, so let's go to the details, but it's questionable that based on the accounts that I have, if this distribution stays like this, they're going to come back to entity budgets unequivocally. They will return from indirect taxation to the RS budget, which now accounts for 59%, - 20.6%. There will be a cramp in function or entity or state. That is why it would be good for this set of laws, which are systematic and crucial for BiH, to have us ready to know what we are entering. It will be in vain on the third or fourth law to say no first or second, because it will be an answer why you did not intervene on the first and the second. So this is where it got into the political story. Whether or not it will be conveyed to the entities and all the stories are wasted on it, instead of the presidents of the entity government and the chairman of the Council of Ministers coming out with an economic account, so to speak, at the moment and when you lose the state, but that we know what it is. So here's the political outwitting, not the economic story. Why couldn't it, here's why someone's explaining to me that there's a better one bill, and why they couldn't have been two, and they're both in the interest of the state. Why didn't they? Why can't I? Where do you explain it to me? How can two accounts be in Canada? When you pay, you know what lies on what account. This doesn't apply, this isn't a strict entity story so you don't get mad at it. Can I have your patience, please? I'm asking to be explained. Why is one account better than two bills in economic terms? Not in political, economic. If you have one account, it can come to the same account in two, only if the distribution system is clear why not. So someone has to. Here someone wants to build a fraud within BiH. I guess that time's over. So we're talking about arguments. If there were two accounts in the Federation, it wasn't all one would be two. Here's two in the Federation to get an answer. So, no one is in RS. Why is one better than two in the economic sense of math, if you know what who gets it? But here, it seems, this is where you want to subdue the political platform behind a vague economic account, as someone against a new way of taxing isn't, but I am for a clear bill. That's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10283	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Spasojević, then Gligorić, then Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10284	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, since I was the last time we discussed the framework principles and I had a series of objections and I submitted amendments to those remarks that seemed to me to be the most normal, not to mention now who they were. However, as Mr Belkić said, I did not get that report from the Commission, and I do not know at the moment whether a single amendment that appears to be a consolidated text has been accepted and why one amendment that I have filed has not been approved and all of these have not been published has probably not been passed, and no one has informed me about it. Now I ask that or the Service says why they didn't inform me to renew these amendments I made last time, because I think they had something to set up for, Mr Špirić also said, and I will also mention a few of them, especially as regards the revision in which every five years the review of the party will take place, there is no reason, I have set up that our audit, following the completion of each year, will audit the business of this administration. Then why is it that the director doesn't have two deputies? No Niko could explain it to me, and if this is a very important administration, and we know that usually in these more important places we go to the principle of the constitution of the people to be two deputies from the other two peoples. Then, as far as the regional centre is concerned, I think some parity has been violated, which here informally rules, that two from the Federation one from the RS regional centre here. As I can see, three are from the Federation right now and one is from the RS alone. No reason, I have submitted my amendment, as far as this regional centre is concerned, Bijeljina and I don't know if Mr. Špirić is presently here. Bijeljina municipality's credentials discussed it and concluded that it would provide all the necessary conditions for the operation and functioning of this regional centre and there is no reason why this amendment of mine, which has been set up now, had no right to have a report, because I have no right to defend it here. I'm asking now for responsibility from someone why I haven't been informed of it. As far as this last amendment of mine is concerned, he's here, which I will defend. It says that all established regional centres will be organised within entity borders. That's very important, and I'm going to defend that amendment of mine, but I'm looking for responsibilities for these other amendments, because I want to defend them here, too. The last compromise that we might be able to, as an MP, vote here is, if Bijeljina can't pass, then at least let Brcko pass, as one of the regional centres and that's what I can accept. I'm asking to be explained to you why my amendments I've submitted have not been notified of, I have no consolidated text, I don't have a commission report and I don't know which ones have been accepted. I've officially learned that one of these eighth amendments has been accepted, and that's the amendment that brings the matter back to its place. So it returns that after the agreement comes into force, an agreement between the Federation of BiH and the RS is concluded and does not violate the BiH Constitution, member of 3.5a. And I think it's very clever. Otherwise, if this hadn't been returned, this would have been a drastic violation of the Constitution. I'm asking for these answers to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10285	I thank Mr. Spasojević. Mr. Gligorić has the word, so Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10286	Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the minister that this framework law is one direction, so we should go taxing. We've heard a lot of debaters. That direction can be wrong. The wrong can be because the principles we did not talk about in the first reading have changed in a second reading and remained in the same positions, so that the model is a problem, unless one valid analysis of what can happen and whether BiH can experience financial collapse. OHR says this is the future. This will be a good solution. Then, both the ministry and the Council of Ministers, but that's just believing in a word. Couldn't 40 have been hypothetically played in a year, three five, and seen what that would have been like. We heard the story when it was supposed to come in, that the European Union introduced the euro, so you got that study from exactly 350 pages. And what did we get here? Trust in the word. As if something from the OHR wasn't right, so the creature was said well, so it turns out it's bad, is that what we have to listen to is someone's authority alone? So it would be good if you worked together with Parliament, not that practice OHR, and you, and then you come here and when people are investing in amendments, there's a problem that Mr. Džaferović, who says, we don't need to change anything, because what's in the College advocates such a thesis that we actually get from somewhere and that we just accept it. Mr. Spasjević is right. I was able to handle all this when it comes to amendments. I only have one amendment, which is that all the established regional centres are organized within entity borders and what he was saying about the deputies and he had some more amendments gone. We have now found ourselves in a situation where, in fact, we have a proposal of the law, we have a report of the Commission and we have a suspicion that we do not have an amendment, or that Mr., I will take an example of Mr. Spasojević, does not know what is not from the amendments, which he has invested on the Commission's past, so that in the next 48 hours he may be active with his amendments to Parliament and that we can make it clear, and it is important, because the amendments wanted, as is the norman procedure that we actually improve the text of the law, because it is not a sacred letter, as we wish to be told. Therefore, the problem that remained around that the first man must be an old man, that he cannot be a BiH citizen, that we do not have a smart man and an honest man who can lead it, disagrees with that position that tomorrow, that no one in this BiH is trusted when it comes to finance. Why wouldn't that be possible? I think we have smart and honest people who can do it. We haven't solved the issue of distribution, the question of responsibility, the shared property, we haven't done this as Professor Špirić said an economic calculation, and I'm saying analysis or hypothetical simulation or any other, which is why I think this paper, which preceded this law, is essentially a lot of work, but you haven't done the story to the end, and that's the problem. Speaking of centers, I really don't know about this BiH, and I don't understand the OHR, since they give it all to us. How could they not have installed Brcko as a center? The Brcko District has its specific weight in BiH. He's been through some arbitration. At the same time, we've all witnessed the Brcko District working well. I think it's better than BiH, and now we've forgotten all about it, and you in that investigative commission or in the commissions where you do things, so I call the gap, we get into a situation where you haven't looked at it enough, because the minister herself said that, in this sense, to quote it, they haven't been able to present it in a better way, maybe now it's not done in the best way and it's not, you admitted it yourself. This means that in this case when we talk about centres which is very important, I think we should respect the amendment that Brcko should be placed under one of the centres that will be important in the amendment phase. But, in principle, I'm talking about the amendment phase, but in principle, since it wasn't done in a good way, since it was done by leaders and some people behind the shadows and they didn't have the ability to do the law right, so that model isn't good, it doesn't offer a good solution, which, in fact, reform is one word, and good law is another word. We didn't get a denomination of 41 laws. This law can be a conflict of interest in BiH very quickly, I don't want it to happen, I want to build BiH with good legal solutions, with a good model and thus get such a pleasant and comfortable BiH and financially. If you solve this financially, don't think that it won't be complicated both politically and any other situation. That's why I don't think it's well done, and because of these principles and this kind of bad model, because it's not rounded up as a system, I can't give support as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10287	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Dr. Lagumdžija Zlatko picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10288	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow representatives, guests, I think that, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that last time at Parliament's session, we have given ourselves the opportunity to have one, freely say, in another interaction through the work of the Commission and through the arrangement of amendments today, if we accept what the Commission's report as an integral part of the law, if that is the case, then that one set of basic drafts of the 15 amendment commission certainly represents one significant shift compared to what we had in front of us a few days ago. You know that we on the committee, and also on the plenary work at the last session, were against the principles of this law because we felt that there were several things in this law that led us to take a step back. Yet thanks to the time we had, we have a text with 15 amendments that makes a significant shift compared to what we had before. And I think that's good. I all who think to be against this law is to be against reform, it's an attitude that naturally every one of us has the right to express behind this speaker, but it's perfectly clear to me that none of us can win on any law, let alone proclaiming any law in its form, any one as the only one that is right and only guarantees an atest of reform. I want to underline once again that we as the SDP MPs are satisfied in part with these 15 amendments, because the four amendments we have given have been accepted. We've performed in parallel, and I want it to be known, in search of a better solution, by respecting the fact that we shouldn't go out with amendments that we know there's absolutely certain certainty that they won't come. In fact, we have proposed in this law, in its amendments, above all the essential thing why we were against the principle is that the Management Board was set up as one power centre that would be stronger than both the government entity and the Council of Ministers and which would practically not correspond to anyone including this Parliament. Therefore, our amendment, i.e. the three amendments that have connected this, which makes the board of directors responsible for the Council of Ministers and Parliament in an appropriate manner and which put the policy in Parliament and the Council of Ministers in place, was of crucial importance and therefore I am pleased that this has been accepted. Also, when it comes to the role of a stranger, we've tried the amendment and we think we're going to make it very clear what we're proposing here. One solution that has been advocated is 42 to be a stranger who will be here for 5 years, and even if he decides in those five years to go to his place again a stranger. That was the proposal. The second proposal was to make sure it wasn't a stranger, to say right away must be our man. The amendment that has accepted the commission, which I think can be accepted that as some kind of compromise in such two cases, is that the Council of Ministers is left with the possibility of electing a foreigner as the first chairman, if that is what it wants. If he thinks it's good for the Council of Ministers to be a stranger for reasons that I wouldn't want to go in here now and politicize them. I want to say here in Parliament, since on the committee we were on, I expressed my personal position and position of the SDP at that session of the Commission were the leaders of the international community leading this area and the EU. I was the one who put out the attitude that I wanted to know here, which is what I told those people when I was sitting in the Council of Ministers I would never choose a stranger, so neither of you. Although perhaps one of those present has scratched himself to be. So I would never choose you. I would choose our man, but if it's a compromise that this current Council of Ministers wants to choose a stranger, we don't want to stand in their way. And that's why this amendment here is going towards this Council of Ministers and every other, if it considers there is a stranger now, it can say thank you at some point we don't need any more. So the stranger here isn't for 5 years it's safe, but as long as he who represents the executive power in this country thinks he needs a stranger. The Council of Ministers can thank a stranger in six months or 16 months in this or some other call and tell us we've stepped on our feet enough and we don't need it anymore. And he doesn't have to take it at all. So I think that these amendments have come to a solution that saves the face of this Parliament and doesn't make the board of directors of that administration one monster organization that is responsible for itself and when a stranger sits at its head, then that stranger can be more powerful than the current High Representative and let alone from any institution here. So we think these seven days we've given ourselves time to give up. We gave up on what we said last time to install a mechanism to resolve the blockade in the hope that this mechanism would be installed in the next period. We also gave up the amendment to the location of the administration for one simple reason why we think that this size that has decided to be this way should be held accountable for it because we don't need to politicize it in any way now. But once again, I underline that we expect, I would ask Parliament to also conclude itself as a working conclusion, counterpart Špirić to accept this centre for management, to oblige the Council of Ministers to finally make a proposal or to distribute future distributions of certain state institutions, administrations, bodies and so on in certain parts of BiH, not to have a debate on whether it should now be in Mostar or in Banja Luka or in Brcko or in Tuzla and so on. To conclude that in some reasonable time, a proposal for distribution is made. We also supported Brcko being fifth, not fourth, but fifth, unfortunately it did not get support. An amendment not adopted by us is that the property of the tax administration is also treated as property of customs. He wasn't adopted. However, I want to say here that we consider it an important amendment, but I would not want to question the whole project. Comrade Belkić, I just want the minister to answer us here. I repeat the question that you 43 said, because the amendments to Articles 25 and 27 that go towards equalisation and in the transitional period of domestic high-titre goods producers with foreign producers, or importers of these goods, we realized that the amendments to Articles 25 and 27 solve this problem. If we get yours right now, it's enough for us to exist here from a parliamentary pay phone that it is and, therefore, that the amendments that are given here are equal to 25 and 27. It's perfectly natural for me as an MP, the word of the minister is quite enough as in every country, and I thank you for the clarification that it is, by this formula, which we are told is settled. Let me finish. We are dissatisfied with the speed here and for these very reasons we have given up making amendments to define the deadline 1.1.2005, although if we were correct, the High Representative's decision to form the commission has already defined 1.1.2005 as a deadline for VAT. Use of VAT from 1.1.2005. So the High Representative's decision did it. Unfortunately, we have received a statement from the High Representative for this speaker contrary to his own decision, as it speaks of it being since 2006. I don't want to derail myself, especially if I don't want to have a controversy between the High Representative and myself. But we also accept that the Council of Ministers' assurances will be accelerated on this making that we do not have to consider a reason to be against it. So we're unhappy with the speed, we're unhappy with the depth of these reforms, but I want to say here that if the commission's report with the amendments that are given here, if the law to say so is to be in front of us in the final form of the amendments that are given here and that are accepted that this is something that is better than the existing state. If these amendments, which are here before us and accepted by the Commission, are an integral part of the Berize Act, but if this is an integral part of the law, it is something that first legally opens up the possibility for us to fund the state originally and not worry more than financing the debt to the outside and opens the possibility that the proper application of this law will be made into a more efficient account with smuggling and evasion of any possible fiscal species. So by accepting these amendments, unless there are any other violations of this, this is something that could be acceptable to us, but I repeat once again not to accept these amendments, especially those that I've been talking about for us, this is a step back and we don't want to take part in this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10289	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Since we said five to 12, a little bit just here worked three hours and rest a little, since we have the reception of the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, so let's take a break for up to one hour. He's got 10 minutes, but let's stop, so we don't interrupt someone in the discussion. You know. There's still 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 debaters. So don't since they're in line, so we don't give. I don't know how much anyone will be discussing, but let's not cut into the debate. If everyone discusses for a long time. So I suggest a break of up to 1 o'clock. Thank you very much. One o'clock, we're all here. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] I'll take your word for it. So what can I do, I guess we all have to have the same time. If I can come, I can all come in time. We wait for someone every time. 44 So the word came from Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10290	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I belong to those MPs who have renewed amendments to the Parliament's session and eight amendments in all. These amendments, I felt, in fact, that I had the objective of improving the law and therefore did not renew the amendment that touched some of the basic principles, which was once adopted on the commission, and then rejected in the re-debate. What I really don't understand is that in some amendments that don't touch the essence of the law, some amendments that don't touch the essence of the law can interfere. The already mentioned amendment that the director has a deputy director is really unclear to me what the problem would be if it were. This is where the practical questions are raised. What if something happens to the director? Who's gonna do the job of whatever jurisdiction he's got? Not to say if it's something the director needs to cover up, hide, etc. So he doesn't need deputies. So it is very indicative that one such, one such amendment, or one such attitude, did not come across support, not only in the commission, but I must say those who followed the commission's work. I also acted as an amendment to the issue of property and the way in which the treatment of the current assets they are using is deliberately used because there are different stories than whether or not it is owned by the current customs facilities and I felt it was not crucial, so ownership of the property is not crucial for the functioning of the law. And that, of course, is a key use of property. What is the problem with this law seems to me to be for most of us MPs from Republika Srpska, one of the more significant problems, therefore, is disrespecting or abolishing entity borders. I am also convinced that this has been resolved more in view of some political and other aspects, not those really practical aspects, because it cannot be sure that in practice it could not have been and otherwise than it can be defended that in practice two accounts could not exist and that, of course, this system is absolutely safe and high-quality. I've also given three amendments to adopted amendments one of which is significant, so I'll read it. Therefore, part of Amendment VIII that was adopted, so I am talking about the report of 5.11. and it concerns Article 27 paragraph 3 which is deleted I will read it – the single account will not become operational until the entry into force of the Act which regulates the methods of payment to a single account in accordance with Article 24 paragraph 1 of this Act. By erasing this article, the question now is whether the single account can work before it is determined that the money will lie on it. Of course he can't. Therefore, first and foremost, it is necessary to define the methods of payment, and then it can only become operational, that is, operational. I don't think whoever suggested this actually got any effect on this. The only thing that's been strengthened in this way here in law means you know exactly when he can become operational. Because he can't become operational otherwise without money, of course we're fully aware that this account doesn't work. 45 Therefore, I think it would be good to appeal to my fellow Members that this means Amendment III be adopted and return it to the initial text. What will be run by the SDS Club when voting on this law? We will be guided by the attitudes of the National Assembly, that is, the conclusions of the National Assembly, which have passed on to us in the jurisdiction of the part relating to this part of the tax policy and the way of regulation. We will also manage how this House will declare itself to be an amendment in the process, which is scheduled to be one of the district centers. It is an extremely important question for us, and we would prefer to return to the original text when it was Brcko instead of Tuzla. But we are fully aware that it is now very difficult and that we would not succeed as it is more acceptable for us than Brcko to be Bijeljina. But we are also aware that this would be very difficult and therefore we will support those who suggest that one of these, or fifth, practically fifth center, the area center be Brcko District. We will also ask the Council of Ministers, but we will also monitor the further implementation of this law. And all that may be a problem, and what a number of colleagues today have pointed out will certainly be the subject of action on the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10291	I thank Mr. Novaković. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10292	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, I may have an unusual understanding today. First in a reminder of earlier discussions that we had in the debate on this law. On one occasion, as an economist, I called for the use of economic logic and economic arguments when we talk about one of these typical economic laws, a key, reform economy reform law. However, it seems to me that the political terminology, political logic and way of acting in this parliament has gone too far. Although sometimes that professional argument is used to cover up political motives and backgrounds in all of this. I want to remind you that we've had three opportunities so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10293	I'm asking you to listen to your colleague speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10294	that we have already had three opportunities to discuss this law. The first debate was when we pleaded on the agenda when this law was first in front of everyone in this room, then when we stated on the adoption procedure of this law and when we had the first reading, after which we, I remind ourselves, that additionally within a certain period of about 46 that we agreed all those who have amendments have the opportunity to instruct them to the committee that was sitting and who delivered the report here. I remind you of this for the simple reason why I want to say on behalf of the Party for BiH Club that precisely because of this way of debate on several occasions, because of the unusual attention that we have all paid to this, and perhaps the attention that the College has given to this law, or the possibility to correct itself through amendments, the BiH Party will today refrain from making a statement on any amendments submitted after the meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee. So all amendments submitted in the procedure after the meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission will not be subject to the vote of the party's MPs for BiH, whether they are rejected on the commission or new amendments. The reason for this lies in the fact that already on several occasions we have had in the debate on this law, this Parliament and all the representatives, or members of this Parliament, have had the opportunity to respond through the amendment procedure and everything else that is normally provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament in the manner in which it is normally provided for in the procedure. This way, that is, the position of the BiH Party MPs will be principled for all amendments, regardless of what some of them may have earned attention to be the subject of perhaps a detailed evaluation and adoption with a strong argument in the previous procedure. But I would like to remind you that the argument for this principle is quite strong on the part of the BiH Party's MPs. What I want, especially today, is to draw attention to the fact that even after three debates on this law, when we have often heard the accusations against the representatives of the international community, who created some solutions for us, or participated, or participated dominantly in the creation of some solutions, today we have heard of this speaker for the first time a representative of the Council of Ministers who said that the Council of Ministers has proposed this document. And in this regard allow colleagues and fellow Members to remind you of the sequence of facts that will probably make it easier for all of us and the way we vote and show probably when voting what our views are, or what political backgrounds are when it comes to key economic reforms. First, if, as the Council of Ministers Resolute Ministers says, then with this logic, I will retain attention to several controversial moments in this law that were the subject of discussion. The decision to lead the board of directors is the Council of Ministers' decision. Furthermore, the policy, i.e. the policy principles relating to the fact that the system of indirect taxation of locations, i.e. policies relating to the indirect taxation system of locations outside the Council of Ministers, is also a decision of the Council of Ministers. Furthermore, why there is no Brcko District among regional centres to elaborate the details, I will remind you of an arbitration decision for Brcko which specifies the direct link between the Brcko District and the Council of Ministers. So why there is no Brcko among regional centres, it is the Council of Ministers' decision, because the Council of Ministers is proposing this law to the sub-measure that this law came before all of us. 47 Furthermore, why also in a formulation in this law, the proposal to apply the state law is conditional on the decision of entity authorities, which continues to be hostage by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. by entity decisions, decisions by the lower authorities, is the decision of the Council of Ministers. So if either of us are members of individual parties, party groups, representatives, here's how we hear even the entity, or the majority representatives of an entity, if we had any objections, then it would be good if we were in communication with the Council of Ministers in the previous procedure. Furthermore, I would like to remind you, and what I find particularly important is that in the same Council of Ministers of 5 parties that form the executive power, there are three presidents and 1 vice-president of the parties. So that even the Committee on Economic Policy is headed by the president of a party who here today, both in the sub-media and in parliamentary procedures, is trying to complicate the procedure for the adoption of this law by a multitude of amendments. To me, I appreciate most of the amendments and the content, I am now speaking as economists who have been submitted, but the fact that colleague Novaković, here I am now by chance because he was right before, but he is not the only one who submits 8 amendments, points out to me the question of how do any of these parties that have their representatives in this House communicate with us to tell the representatives in the Council of Ministers. So let's ask ourselves, it's probably one of the questions that will help us explain why we behave in a way, in one way when the presidents of the parties sitting in the Council of Ministers and who are slowly releasing appropriate legal projects, and the same representatives, representatives of the same party stop, or stop, or slow down, or, by means of the amendment, try to change some of the solutions proposed by the Council of Ministers. It may be the most common way, but I would like to remind all of you that, as we are going to vote for this law today and all the misunderstandings and consequences that will result from the decision taken by this Parliament should be made by the representatives of the parties sitting in this Parliament, and especially by the appropriate solutions to the implementation of this law, if, and I hope that it will be adopted, the motioner, and that is the Council of Ministers. And I ask you, in the future, whenever we have a debate, whenever we have a notice that the Council of Ministers is a proposing, we do not mention representatives of the international community as if they are our fault for the appropriate solutions. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the Party for BiH will support the solution, because we have been quite active through the working bodies of this Parliament, and that, from the text that has come through the Council of Ministers, we will improve the appropriate solutions that will therefore support this law and we will refrain from making a statement on any amendment, whether it be good or bad solutions that have arrived in parliamentary procedure after the session of the resolution body, i.e. the Finance and Budget Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10295	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. I would pray _______(?) 48 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10296	What do you care? I'm an MP. What do you care? I have the right to speak. ________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] What do you care what I talk about? Back off there more.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10298	I'm asking you to forward how appropriate it is to the MPs. I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. I would like to ask, the subject of attention will be all amendments that have been submitted in a business manner. I regret if some parties think that by refraining from that statement they will make a good law, but everything that is business must be respected. Munib Jusufović answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10299	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really had an intention to do something about the last time and without any special ones, so to say both emotion and further arguments, but still to warn of something that might have strong implications in terms of implementing this solution that we are talking about today in the law. However, the way it is done by some MPs in a violent manner as it must be adopted, I must say that I am irritated by the fat and there is no institution and it was called the OHR or the Council of Ministers and to order something to adopt. No, on the contrary, there's something very different about me, a repulsive attitude towards such performances. But I'll be back within the framework of the raid. I will nadovezati on what counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović said. That's what I'm gonna start with. Is the Council of Ministers in this kind of composition, once again to question the motions he has come up with? And I'll be more specific. Is anyone from the Council of Ministers, I'd like to hear, read the arbitration decision from this call? I'm saying it's not. I'm saying it's not, because we shouldn't suggest such a solution that absolutely destroys the arbitration decision. I didn't want to say this because I didn't want MPs, this will cause, I guarantee you the severe and unwanted consequences in terms of entity after getting involved in this problem. This is becoming a political problem. Did the Council of Ministers have any jurisdiction to bring down the arbitration ruling? Well, for five years, she's been brought in since '95. The end of 2000 was declared in March, so that one move by the Council of Ministers would now end. At least for the sake of this moment if nothing else would cause it to be a solution, because it could not agree on either Republika Srpska or the Federation to whom it would belong. That's why it's said it doesn't belong to anyone, and it belongs to everyone. 49 They have introduced a special category and they say – this piece of land is under the direct sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the same body that calls it the Council of Ministers and that same body, to make it even funnier, stranger, says – as of today we do not recognise such an arbitration decision. There's no Brcko in that system anymore. For those reasons, I'm warning you, I've been on that team for five years around Brcko. It was a tough game. There will be problems with that solution. I'm warning you one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10300	I thank my colleague Jusufović. Dr. Petar Kunić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10301	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I have mostly expressed my views on this law in determining the principles. And it would be good today to talk about this issue without sharing political connotations with each other about and against economic reforms. If I'm against this law, I'm not against economic reforms. And let's not identify it, it's not good. I am for economic reforms, but that are compatible with the European system adapted to our opportunities, our conditions, our political system. Unfortunately, this law doesn't follow that lead. The co-constituent position of Bosnia and Herzegovina is unclear. Article 21 is a real mouse composition that should have been defined far away. Looking at this aspect, I am unable to pass a law like this unless there is a change during the vote on amendments. Yes, some changes have been made on the commission that are more technical. No significant shifts have been made. This is a deeply interesting issue, perhaps the most interesting issue since the constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in new conditions. Maybe the most important law so far. And that is why it really needs to be considered from all aspects, because it will be followed by many, many conconsequences that may be desirable, but which may also be undesirable to someone. So please don't accept the syntax of the one who thinks, that's the problem. If we want to develop democratic relations within this Parliament. Not only are the entity's positions not clearly defined, you see the District. Mr. Munib made a nice point to the district. It is politically acceptable, so reform, tax, customs. We know everything that's going on in the field, and it would really be the crazy one who wouldn't accept reforms, but reforms that will satisfy everyone's interests in these areas. We must be very patient and respect each other's interests. Would I ask this, apart from Munib, did the Council of Ministers ever read the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina by making such a law? Because he's opposed to the Constitution in many dimensions. The principle of clean bills is not accepted. And that can be very problematic in the further perspective. I don't know, I really don't understand, I rarely speak to the position of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak etc. I'm not that, but I don't understand who's bothering you, who cares about one control system, and as soon as there's one control system, the advantage on his side is that there are two accounts, an entity account. We have a clean bill system. There's one customs administration, but there are two accounts that we know at any moment how many people have the means. I don't see why, I don't understand why to be against that fact, because we all are. That's 50 one of the fundamental dimensions, one of the fundamental dimensions of this law, not some, some gentlemen. The main goal is that, and behind that, there are other goals. So we didn't start doing politics yesterday either. Well, I guess we're assuming some relationships, too. And we know we're resonating things like this. Therefore, to conclude, unless there are some major amendments, I have proposed them, I am not prepared to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10302	I thank Dr. Petar Kunić. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10303	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow MPs, MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, dear guests and others, I am one of those who has invested in the first part of the seven amendments to this law with the aim of trying to follow two principles that follow each law, among other things in this particular case, is the principle of economicity and the principle of improving the text to get as clear as possible with the formulations to avoid disagreement, tomorrow wandering, etc. in certain explanations or explanations. The Commission has accepted something, something has not. Afterwards, I reviewed it and came to the conclusion that I should still report to the amendments to the new amendments to the amendment and try to explain where my views are. I have not entered a very important principle here that I see the whole discussion today permeates, and that is the political principle of access to this law that gives connotations like this and like this, and essentially when translations are given certain views that the law would have to endure much in change and in concept that would lead to something else, a new sitting etc. And I believe that this law as a reform law with previous road effort and work invested in it and that certain compromises have been reached, certain principles have been reconciled, as likely at that moment with those views and the structure of the people who have worked on the draft of that law. If I didn't, I'd go directly to be as practical as possible. I remained with the principles of economics on my amendment I, to Article 5. The bill where I said the seat should be, the administration should be in Sarajevo. I explained it to the next guy. There's no political background for me, so maybe someone will pull it out, but I'm saying it doesn't really hit my goal and my insistence. In my view, the start management should employ 230 to 250 experts from this area, i.e. from the field of tax policy, customs policy and fiscal policy. I wonder if these experts have demographically in the current state when it comes to especially the people of the Bosniak and Croatian peoples. In this context, it seemed to me that if the structure of some agreed employment ratio was followed, it should be around 110 Bošnjak, about 80 Srbin and about 40-50 Hrvat. There would be a question now where to get, they can get within the borders of this country, we have an expert, but if it's going to cost, that's the economics that these people now, the apartments, there we take from them, to pay for their travels, etc., because they really have to be there. It's just, let's just say my leadership either to suggest it be. 51 Now I repeat that I am not standing apriors, that I am not standing by the apriors a proposal and an attempt to give one thought to this House in order to pass this law, which I find extremely important. I consider it even the most important one to have ever seen the benches of this House so as not to be buried in a trench and stand behind it. Let Parliament declare it, if I should even be able to withdraw it. The other principles that will follow the other three of my amendments are exclusively based on improving the text and I continue to argue, and the person who can look at that doubt and see that it is a real improvement in the text, so it says that the board is competent under a) so there is a formulation in the first part of the law, and also in the commission that I do not think is good. I'm saying it's not good. And that is why I have suggested that it says that the board is responsible for determining and implementing a policy on indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Very simple, very simple and very clear. And look at both of them in one case and in another that it's wrapped a little bit there, a little bit over here and it doesn't give the right thing. It is further in point 2. 2i) that the Committee is responsible for the adoption of the rules necessary for the implementation of the activities referred to in this Article. I know that all the laws say that no wandering, tomorrow someone doesn't start, there's some analogy, there's no analogy, and nothing essentially changes the law to stand – as well as interpretation by those regulations. The board in charge of that. And I don't see why it hasn't been put in, say, that sentence that's really improving the text, and nothing's... In that same amendment in Article in point (c) of that amendment, a new position should be added to my amendment, in my opinion, it is in Article 14 at the end – that the Committee is obliged to provide material and technical assumptions for the operation of the administration. Understand that it is now a huge apparatus, a very important apparatus for this country etc. which of the space, office furniture, computers and a series of technical assumptions that she could work, to run the state must be told who the pre-conditions for her work would provide and I don't see why it didn't stand here and that it was the immediate task of that committee. In Amendment III, I have also tried, and I forgot to say, in improving the text, I have been guided by the principle that this is brought to life as quickly as possible. I'm in my head, regardless, I didn't agree with the commission that convinced me that it should be minimum 6 months, I think it can be before and what 6 I'm simply when it comes to time terms in two places said that it's within a period of 6 months to do that job, because I'm saying that this job can, if it's willing to do it. If there's no will, we won't do it in six years. I continued to say in that amendment III that what the law says is necessary are vague eggs, pears and apples and the same basket. It says the laws and regulations, so it's mountainous, or it's hornadayly laid down what kind of regulations it might be, and here they must be decidently spoken, which laws will follow this. So I said it was a law on indirect taxation management. True, it is clear that they are not subject to sublegal acts, because when it says regulations, I believe, and there are stronger legal experts that are then sublegal acts, and then we will question whether or not sublegal acts will be dealt with in place of the law and vice-law. So I said it was the law on distribution, the way and methods of knowing income based on indirect taxation, that's what we're breaking, that it's the Law on Payments in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. 52 Says here the Customs Policy Act is passed. What we need to pass the law we have, rather than enforce, if we have to and if we have noticed to make changes to that law, rather than engage with a whole new law. That is why I have specified and normally given places that others need regulations to regulate certain areas in this segment. And in Article 4, on Article 27, paragraph 2, I suggested that within three months, all this was done. ... and that a single account, as a condition, because it was already said by one of the colleagues, that it would be wrong for the account to start working without some things having been done before, so I said that the single account would become operational within that time limit, it is necessary that laws as predecessors and regulations of Article 24. and these are the laws that I was talking about. They must be the real basis for the application of this law, and therefore I don't see why the commission has made such clear intentions, which haven't changed the concept of the law. That's why I stayed in my position to show up at Parliament and defend these amendments of mine and I think they're... But I do mention it once more. In order to pass the law, in order for this parliament not to be the brakes of passing such an important reform law, I am standing at the point that if I have to give up all these amendments and if I think they are really in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10305	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. We would be helped by those who wish to give up the amendment, since it will be a phase of a statement on amendments and, if indeed, genuine willingness, I thank you. Filip Andrić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10306	Gentlemen chairing, respected fellow MPs, esteemed guests, or members of the Council of Ministers, I spoke behind this pay phone and the last time it came to this law. I spoke to the board and I suggested a lot of amendments there. Unfortunately, most of them were rejected. I have referred to this house in the form of two amendments, those questions, which, in truth, I believe, should be found at all costs in this law. I think this law should be on the trail of a clean bill policy, as someone mentions behind this pay phone, one of my colleagues, and should also respect and respect the Constitution. Article 21 of this Law, which refers to the distribution of funds to users, or the return of funds from a single account, has nowhere to go, nor has there been a single word of the county mentioned in the entire law, and if, under the Constitution of the Federation of County, the Federation has its own original incomes. Article 21 of this law provides for County revenues, direct county revenues to go to a single account. I don't mind that, on the contrary, I welcome that solution, but in returning funds from a single account to the county budgets, there should be no mediator nor the Federation government, even if it is more convincing in 53 of its work and objectivity than it has shown so far, it should not again. I don't think there's any reason. The county's budget is funded by the police, the judiciary, full education, social welfare, these are the burning problems in the people who are being financed. Now my money, or the county money, needs someone else to dispose of. I'm absolutely against it. On the contrary, for the politics of pure accounts. I hope you will keep this amendment of mine, because in truth it will not harm this law, nor the funkconality of the service if instead of the three scheduled accounts return to ten accounts of money. By the laws and criteria that are now in force, or as they are passed, by the law on the distribution of income, which will be passed, as it determines, so this amendment just wants to throw out the mediator between the county and the single account. There's no need for a middleman. The best policy of clean bills and then love will be long and I hope we'll be more satisfied. The second question, which I find very important in the truth, is in the form of an amendment to the second one, is when it comes to areas of operations. The areas of operations, as it is called in this law, in my view is more logically the name of the district office or what can be identified, in some ways partly with the current customs offices, is in the southern part of the state of Mostar. For those who don't know from Mostar to the Wooden, it's 300 kilometers. That citizen, that taxpayer, who needs any service from that district office, which is in the jurisdiction of that area office, he's going to have to leave, go 600 kilometers to solve, perhaps the most banal issue. Many will say computerization, information, this, that will solve the problem. He'll do a lot of good, but he won't solve the problem. Because if IT's going to solve that problem, then we don't need any district offices. We need a central office and a border crossing and an outpost. I therefore believe that in this area, an area office in the area of Tomislvgrad, which would cover the areas of the current customs offices Tomislavgrad and Gruda and some 250 colometers of the border line of the main corridor from Luke Split via Kamenski towards Central Bosnia, which, according to the Federation Customs Administration, now generates about 40% of the income of the federal budget and about 50% of the items in the customs procedure processed. It's going through these areas. I don't think we should ignore it and not turn the state into a position for it to be a nation for the sake of the state, not a nation for the sake of the people. I therefore believe that we should also support this amendment and I am free to say from here that my relationship with the common law is positive, but because of these two amendments, I will think carefully and decide whether to raise my hand to the law. If you support it, then there's no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10307	Mrs Fatima Leho answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10308	The chairman, MPs, MPs, guests, When we talk today about this law on the indirect taxation system, we need to go back a little bit to see what we ended up in financial flows in BiH. The Central Bank has responded to its task over the past six years as we work, we have a stable currency and enough foreign reserves to keep that out of the question. We have paid traffic from the Institute, or institutions that have different names transferred to business banking and 54 have created conditions for a unique economic space. At the state level, both state and entity and canton operations were introduced in the Federation, and that's what's good that we've done so far. However, in this composition that we are sitting in the House of Representatives, at least this year, we have not yet passed a single law, which is based on what has been done before. This is the first law, which refers to fiscal policy, i.e. a space that has not yet been resolved as needed in order to really enter the process of economic reforms in BiH. All of us sitting here in front of our parties at these party pre-election meetings promised to do everything in the country to go through economic reforms to reduce unemployment, to increase pensions, and therefore I did not make the project offered by the Council of Ministers, which was achieved by a certain political consensus, to pass on to us and that this much of the amendment was acting on this project, because in fact when the amendments that are here are being analysed, it is not possible to notice that 90% of them are being broken down, that 10% of them can be subdued under the improvement of the text, and that is why I will take advantage of the opportunity, since I have volunteered to thank Minister Marić, for everything she has managed to do with her colleagues in the Treasury and with representatives of the European Commission, who have given them keen assistance in creating this initial document. This is our first law in this area. We can't claim to make it now so it's beautiful that we don't have to change it in five or ten years. Let's take this first step today, and time is ahead of us, unless it changes us, to make things better, because that's what we promised. As for the SDA Club, we will vote for this offered text with 15 amendments adopted at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10309	I thank Mrs. Leho. Mr. Sead Avdić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10310	Fellow Members and colleagues, honored guests, After these few hours of debate over this law on indirect taxation, system, framework law, reform law, I think it is high time that we return to the subject of second reading debate, and the subject of second reading is, simply, a declaration of amendments. And we spent most of our time on the fundamental postulates of this law and we're back to square one. In this context we completely ignore what the Council of Ministers have done, there we have had the opportunity to intervene, simply if we are ruling political parties, parliamentary parties, so that we can intervene through our ministers and simply those who act on behalf of these political parties, normally on behalf of the BiH Parliament, but they are members of these ruling political parties, which means that it is unambiguous and I call on all those who have discussed the first reading, on essential, fundamental issues about this law to give up their discussions. I don't think that's correct. That it is not good to simply ask again the question of the existence of this law and the fundamental postulates on which this law is being set. So if BiH is a unique economic space, and we said last time, if this law has a constitutional and legal basis, then how can we ask for rounding, a simple administration for indirect taxation by entities, weapons within entities, etc. and we say this is a systematic, reform law at BiH level. So, I'm asking you to respect. BiH is a unique economic space and this law has a constitutional and legal basis and let's not go against it, simply to return 55 wheels back. Which means the discussions suggest that we cannot agree on this law, that so many amendments have opposed each other, that there is absolutely no parliamentary majority to get, is that right, this law today at this session. So it would be good if we had the strength to concentrate on the original text of the law and what the commission did and that we simply tried to gather on it and simply create a parliamentary majority and I think that would be good at the very least. Everything else is one frightening logic of the Bosnian Herzegovina policy that cannot be accepted. I'm asking you one more time. The Council of Ministers is an expression of the will of the parliamentary majority. The Council of Ministers has proposed this law and do not destroy, rudely, the law that came from the Council of Ministers, from the same ministers who are members of the ruling political parties. So it's highly inappropriate. Otherwise, we will have to, the opposition will have to totally enter the geneaze of what is happening in the BiH Parliament. As laws are passed in the Council of Ministers, how they simply fall on the BiH Parliament. I'm begging you. Okay. It'd be good, also under 3. Can the Minister tell us if this law can work in BiH? How's it going to work? Can we simulate what is called this law, simply remove some dilemmas and withdraw some remarks from this law, etc. I thought before this break, one hour to call to the Expansive College, as an institute used poorly in these situations, to collect to agree and reach a consensus on this law and to propose a single conclusion, everything else is politicization, simple delay, adoption of this law, which will take hours to declare amendments and ultimately we have an extremely uncertain outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10311	Thank you, Dr. President. I'm going to have I don't think we should teach each other a lesson, like we should talk about the amendments. It would be good if Mr. Avdić had talked about his amendments and, it seems to me that he was talking to a positioner and says we have to trust the Council of Ministers, but I'm not disputed either. The Council of Ministers should be trusted when the decisions are clear. Please, who's still answering for the word? We're bringing an end to the debate. Gosodin Andrić, if it's a replica and we're closing the raps. We'll move quickly to a statement. I think we're gonna bring this to an end successfully.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10312	It's an incorrect quote. Mr Avdić said that proposing new regional offices is tearing down a single economic space in BiH, which is not necessarily standing. The second thing, someone even mentioned the principle of the ethnic line, the entity line. I don't know, in truth, that someone put in the task of not seeing an entity line anywhere. If that's not allowed, then it's easier to delete the constitution of one entity and they're not there, and on the other hand, when it comes to the district offices, further, what the area office defines is the director, board of directors and the Council of Ministers. So you can walk ten times over the inter-entity line any way you want. Therefore, that principle does not sow. It's not true. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10313	Thank you, Mr. Andrić. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. No more ladies and gentlemen reported debaters. Please bring the end of the debate to declare our amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10314	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, here's the entire course of debate I am as the debate moved more and more, making more and more sure of the correctness of that call I made to you at the beginning of the debate on this subject, on the subject of the law on indirect taxation. This is such an important law for all of us in BiH and BiH, that we should not allow ourselves any risk when it comes to this matter. Representatives of all peoples and peoples from all over BiH worked at the OHR's Direct Taxation Commission, so they reached an agreement. So then the Council of Ministers discussed the law, so the Council of Ministers reached an agreement, which was also structured on all elements, on which we are looking at the structure in BiH and, ultimately, the law came to Parliament and into the Commission for Finance and the budget was adopted by consensus on the 15th amendment. I once again, since we are now, indeed at a very important moment, in view of all this, I am taking advantage of the opportunity to call on my colleagues, who have tabled amendments to give up the amendment, to plead on the text of the law, as we have, therefore, by the Council of Ministers, corrected by the amendments of the Commission for Finance and the budget of this Parliament. I'm afraid we're not going into some risky situation. Otherwise, if we come into a situation to plead, I will, for principle reasons, no matter what I think there are some amendments from some MPs, which may well be accepted, such as. Some amendments by Mr. Moranjkić, I will vote against these amendments, only because of this principle to preserve the fundamental text of the law on which a political consensus has been reached in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10315	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Ladies and gentlemen, no one's answering again. I'm closing the raps. Wrong quote, let's just bring this in, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10316	Ladies and gentlemen, the kriv quote is being looked at in the next one. Mr. Džaferović, at the beginning of his discussion and finally ended, Mr. džaferovićan began and ended his discussion, which he finished, and began with a political consensus, within the commissions that worked, representatives of all the peoples, etc. The guilty allegation is that this is a reform law, but only worked by the national parties SDS, SDA, HDZ, PDP and the Party for BiH, and this is not the political consensus of BiH and not all of BiH's minds. Therefore, when he said in BiH, he wanted to show everyone in BiH and opposition and position. I just want to get this straight. That the assembly majority, at all levels in BiH, has offered one bad legal solution and that it is known in front of the citizens' eyes when it is complicated tomorrow, because when you talked 57, you asked Ms. Minister, can she guarantee she remains silent and she cannot go out alone to say I guarantee that this will be a good law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10317	Thank you. Please, Mr. Džaferović, it's also the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10318	Please, for a moment, Mr. Gligorić, you have not corrected the quote, but you have wronged it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10319	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Gligorić. We're bringing the end. A little more patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10320	The point is what Mr. Džaferović was saying, which is that he is afraid to tell the citizens of BiH what the Party of Democratic Action has done. Tell it to Mr. Džaferović, and do not hide behind the political consensus of the BiH institutions, say clearly. That is the essence and you have now answered nothing except that you just said I want to hide behind something that will be very problematic in BiH. Always speak plainly and clearly. The Party of Democratic Action, you must be clear to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10321	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I'm begging you, we've been arguing for 2-3 hours, I think it's very good. If this debate helps someone to clarify their views, it would be good for them to withdraw their amendments. I ask those who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have submitted amendments, would anyone like to withdraw their amendments in order to speed up the plea procedure. Mr. Novaković. Is it? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10322	Since I have two lists of one amendment, so the re-edited amendment and one amendment to the amendments adopted, then first on these amendments that I have repeated, I am withdrawing Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10323	Thank you very much. Here, when we plead and you'll tell me you'll stay with most of the amendments. I'll ask when we plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10324	And the amendments to the amendments, so I'm staying with Amendment III. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10325	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić, you were the one who announced if you stayed with the amendments. Let's get the amendments in order as complex as they are, don't please. I ask the applicants of the amendment as we have clearly discussed that if they clearly say, if they withdraw the amendments thank you, we will shorten the procedure, if we do not make a statement. Mr. Novaković made it clear which amendments were withdrawn. Is there anyone else to pull? There isn't. Thank you. Let's go make a statement about the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, you've received a report from the commission. Of course, these amendments adopted by the Komisja are becoming an integral part of the text of the law on them. Let's go, then, in order. We have Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendments, that's 10 amendments, please find those amendments. First amendment, so Amendment number one. It says there, I suggest that Article 11 reads: "The director and his deputy are appointed for a period of five years. So, is there any need for me to read the amendments? There isn't. Is there a need to read? So there's no need for me to read the amendments. Who's to accept the amendment and Mr. Nikola Špirće? Who's in? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? Don't sufflage. It won't work. I know he won't. I know for a number of reasons. Don't be afraid that a good amendment will pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10326	Some of them will pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10327	We'll see. He's afraid of Sead being wrong, but Beriz won't be able to. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of 38 who voted 11 for, 14 against, nine abstentions. I find that Amendment I has not been adopted. We're going to Amendment II. Who is it to accept amendment II to Mr Špirić? You've all been notified. I suppose you've leveled these amendments with the text or the OHR told you you shouldn't read. 59 Who is it to accept the amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen of 38 attending was 7, versus 14, abstention 11. I find Amendment II not accepted. Who is it to accept amendment III to Mr Špirić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Of the 39 MPs present voted 10, 14 against, 12 abstentions. I find Amendment III not accepted. Moving to Amendment IV. Who is it to accept Amendment IV? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen of 39 MPs, for 11, against 12, 12 abstentions. So no amendment IV has passed either. We are going to Amendment v.. kao is it to accept Amendment V of Proposer Nikola Špirić? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, of the 39 present 9 for – versus 14 – abstention 11 is not accepted Amendment v. amandman VI Who is to accept Amendment VI? It says everything. I said that at the beginning, Mr. Lagumdžija. You only have one piece of paper. You don't have to jump. We'll wait two minutes to find those amendments. Who's in favour of Amendment VI? Who's against Amendment VI? Who's being held back? Please be nice, 39 present 10 for – v 18 – abstention 8. Amendment VI is not accepted. Amendment VII Who is to accept Amendment No VII? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Of the 39 present for 11 – versus 13 – abstention 13. So I find Amendment VII not accepted. 60 amandman vi Who is to accept Amendment VIII? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? So of the 39 present – 13 were for – versus 13 – abstentioned 8. I konstatuj that this amendment has not been accepted either. Who is it to accept Amendment IX of Proposer Nikola Špirić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? From 39 to 14, therefore, it was against 17 – 8 abstentions. So I find Amendment IX not accepted. Amendment number X Who is to accept Amendment X to Proposer Nikola Špirić? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? I also ask if the amendment has passed to repeat the vote. I didn't count. Who's to repeat the vote? Who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Now give me the results. So, of the 39 docks – for 21 – versus 11 – abstention 7. I konstatovati it's an amendment, it's gotta be entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? From Federation 9, please repeat the Federation. I'm begging you. Who's from the Federation for? From Federation 10 – RS 11. I find Amendment X accepted. Thank you. We are done with the amendments of the promoter Nikola Špirić. We're moving on to Mr. Momčilo Novaković's amendment. Here's to finding Mr. Novaković's amendments. Please bear with me. So, Mr. Novaković, as I understood him when he proposed three amendments, he gave up amendment number I and II and remains on the third amendment. Right? He has two groups of amendments? There's eight on one, and there's three on the other. Are you giving up on Amendments I and II, as far as I understand you're staying on Amendment III? Okay. Thank you very much. So thanks because Momčilo Novaković withdrew Amendment number I and number II. Who is it to accept Amendment III of Mr. Novaković? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Who's in? So please, so read, I can't understand, I can read all your amendments, and you need me to read. Here you go. So what were you doing? Never mind. Please, if you've found the amendments and leveled them, I guess it's time for every amendment we get to level with the law, to be in or out, not slow down. So I know everyone's amendment I leveled with the text and I know what I'm going to support. Who is it to accept Amendment III of Mr. Novaković? Who's against the amendment? Who's being held back? So, of the 39 present for 11 – versus 13 – abstention 14. Amendment number III of Mr. Novaković was not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to these eight amendments of Mr. Novaković. Can we just hear what amendments you've given up on? The rest are I – VII and VIII. We speak of them, and of the others Mr. Novaković has given up. Who is it to accept amendment number I of Mr. Novaković that the director has deputies? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen of 39 present 15 for – 17 against – 6 abstentions. I find amendment number I not accepted. Amendment number VII Who is to accept amendment number VII? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, 39 present for 12 – versus 13 – abstention 14. I find Amendment VII not accepted. Amendment number vi kao is to accept amendment VIII to Mr. Novaković? Who's against this amendment? Who's restrained? Ladies and gentlemen of 39 present for 11 – against 15 abstentions 11 which I find amendments to the cooperative respected colleague Novaković have been rejected, as have mine. We're moving on to Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić's amendments. Who's to accept amendment number and Mr. Moranjkić? Who's in? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? 62 Thank you. Of the 39 present for 4 – versus 20 – abstentioned 12. I find amendment number I not accepted. Moving to Amendment II. Who is it to accept amendment II by Mr. Moranjkić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. So, of the 39 present 3 for – versus 20 – abstention 14. I find Amendment II not accepted. Amendment III to Mr. Moranjkić. Who is it to accept Amendment III? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 40 present 4 for – versus 20 – abstentions 10. I find Amendment III to Mr Moranjkić not accepted. Amendment IV Who is Mr. Moranjkić, Amendment IV? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, out of the 40 in favour, 10 voted against 21 -- abstention 8. I konstatuj that even Mr. Moranjkić's amendments have not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendments of Ms. ruža Sopta and Vink Zorić. I'm asking you to manage and find the amendments. Who is it to accept the amendment and Mr Ruđe Sopta and Vink Zorić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 40 present for 10 – versus 17 – abstention 13. I understand that amendments number and ruža of Sopta and Vink Zorić have not been adopted. Who is it to accept Amendment number II of the gentlemen mentioned, which is similar to Amendment I? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So I figure out that out of the 40 in favour, 9 against 16 -- abstention 12. I find that Amendment II has not passed. Amendment III kao is in order to accept Amendment III of the aforementioned MPs Sopte and Zorić? Who's against it? Abstained? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 40 present 10 for - versus 15 - abstention 13. I also find that Amendment III has not been accepted, and thus, we have completed our statement on the amendments of the MPs ruža Sopta and Vink Zorić. 63 We move to a statement on the amendments of MP Filip Andrić. I'll give you a minute to figure out how to come to the amendment. They have two amendments. Who's to accept amendment number and Mr. Filip Andrić? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'm finding out from 40 present, for 9, versus 14, abstention 16. I find the amendment number and Mr. Filip Andrić is not accepted. We move on to amendment number II. Who is it to accept amendment number II of Mr. Zorić Filip Andrić I apologize? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Just a little bit to keep our attention at the polls. Who's being held back? Thank you. So from the 40s present, it was 14, versus 17, held 9. I konstatuj Amendment number II by Mr. Filip Andrić not accepted. We have completed our statement on the amendments by Mr Filip Andrić. The next is Munib Jusufović. He has, here's just look, he only has one amendment with one broad and good explanation. They know what this is about. Who's to accept Mr. Jusufović's amendment? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? This is just a reminder to those who say that Bjeljina can't be. Who's being held back? Now you will come to the principles that you stuck to at the beginning. How can you break the principle, you see. Well, he can. Just can't, don't worry, so I'm in charge. So, of the 40 present, for 22, against 14, abstention 4. Who's from the Federation for? We're going to an entity vote. Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Give me the report. See how much Republika Srpska takes care of Brcko. So, from Federation 9 for, from Republika Srpska 13. I'm sorry he didn't get Federation support. Let's go to the party. 64 So we didn't agree, we're definitely going. Who's against the Federation? Who's from Republika Srpska against? Give me a report. I find that the Federation was against 13, from Republika Srpska against 1 and I find that this amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10328	Mr. Chairman, please take the lead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10329	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10330	I ask you to hold a session of Parliament and ask the guests to behave here in accordance with the order in force when it comes to guests. This is Parliament. There are other regions in BiH, and please don't disturb us while we work. And I'm asking you to hold a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10331	I'm begging you, I don't know what's been going on here. The people who have come are allowed to attend the sittings rejoiced by the state's Parliament's position. They know, and we do, please, Sead Palavrić is picking up. Please, what's the problem? Please just take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10332	I doubt the results of the vote under this amendment, and I would like an individual statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10333	If Parliament accepts this, the president of the club can do business, we must go to an individual statement. I'm asking Branko yes, so we have to do business, I'm sorry. That he doubts the results and asks for an individual statement. We have business to respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10334	. Mirsad Ćeman, v. 2. Šefik Džaferović, v. 3. Hazim Felić, v. 4. Izet Hadžić, v. 5. Fatima Leho versus 6. Nadžid Mlaćo, v. 7.. Muratović Hasan, v. 65 8. Abdulah Nakaš, v. 9. Sead Palavrić, v. 10. Beriz Belkić, abstention 11. Nijaz Duraković is not here 12. Azra Hadžiahmetović, abstention 13. Adem Huskić, abstention 14. Mehmed Suljkanović, for 15. Filip Andrić, for 16. Ivo Miro Jović, against 17. Martin Raguž, v. 18. Sopta Ruža, v. 19. Vinko Zorić, not here 20. Selim Bešlagić, for 21. Zlatko Lagundžija, for 22. Jozo Križanović, for 23. Sead Avdić, abstention 24. Muhamed Altić, 25. Ibrahim Džedović, 26. Ivo Lozančić, 27. Muhamed Moranjkić, 28th Mladen Potočnik, for 29. Miloš Jovanović, 30. Ljiljana Miličević, for 31. Nenad Mišić, 32. Momčilo Novaković, for 33. Zoran Spasojević, 34. Nikola Kragulj, 35. Nikola Špirić, 36. Milorad Živković, 37. Jelina Đurković, 38. Petar Kunić, 39. Mirko Blagojević, 40. Tihomir Gligorić, for 41. Elmir Jahić, v. 42. Munib Jusufović, for
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10335	Please, let's just have a little session. Let's just get the results. If it could, it wouldn't be any problem, everything would be respected what clubs should be doing. It's all part of the democratic atmosphere. What's Branko's score? So, from the Federation, the second round from Federation 10 for, against 12.4 abstention, is therefore. From Republika Srpska 13 to, 1 against. So this amendment was accepted and re-voted. 66 It was identical, it was yes and against when it was added, because it was a sum, it was identical. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has been accepted by Mr. Jusufović. We're going to make a statement on Mr. Zoran Spasojević's amendment. It is Amendment number I that this amendment must be put in place by this one, which was adopted before this, puts this ad act, and is not being taken into account by Spasojević. So, who's in favour of accepting Mr. Spasojević's amendment? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? So, of the 40 present, vote 8, versus 20, abstention 8. I konstatuj that the amendment has not been accepted. That concludes our statement on the amendments. So it was accepted, only two amendments were accepted by Mr. Munib Jusufović and the amendment to my number Xth amendment. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the plea, Mrs. Palavrić is asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10336	I'm looking for a 15-minute break and a session of an extended college before the law is declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10337	It's a session of an extended college before the law is declared. A break of 15 minutes at the request of the SDA Club. Respectfully, we have a 15-minute break, an extended college in the next room. /PAUSE 15 MINUTES/ We continue to work. So, the word she asked for, a break was sought by the SDA MPs' club. We had a college together. My proposal is therefore to approach the final statement concerning this law. After that, we'll move on to a debate about the Defense Act. There will be an hour's rest, for the sake of an MP. So I ask that we continue tonight to do the Defense Act for at least seven hours, to adopt it in our first reading, so if there is a second reading that we can do at the next session, we have a session that would definitely plead. I pray therefore, they all understand needs, but tonight we try as seriously and as long as possible without harming any of us's rights. So, we keep working and we're in a position to finally get to the point of the law. We've completed our statement on the amendments. The SDA Club asked for a break if she'd like to explain, please. There's Mr. Blagojević behind that, and I have to say that we've concluded 67 debates, and we're going to a statement. If it's going back to something and there's something that we're done for.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10338	Just to explain why we asked for a break, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10339	I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10340	I think you're all aware that the amendment by which one of the centres of operations is Brcko has disrupted the whole concept of the law. And that was why I asked for a break and we talked. You also saw that the SDA did not act as an amendment, not wanting to compromise the law on which the Commission and the Council of Ministers reached a consensus. Now we're going to make a statement about the law as a whole, but the amendment on Brcko won't pass in the House of the Peoples and I'm not threatening at all, so I guess I know when I have five MPs, four MPs from the Bošnjak order yes, so let me speak, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10341	I'm asking you to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10342	So, on that condition, we're voting for laws, not wanting to put this important project at risk again, and let everyone live with their own conscience what he's done today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10343	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Mr. Blagojević, you wanted to, but only if it's about a break. Don't open the debate again, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10344	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I, on behalf of my party, have humbly submitted an amendment to this law that provides that Bjeljina is also one of the centers. But I don't really have any explanation or the fate of that amendment. I also explained nicely and for what reason Bijeljina should be one of these centers and if they have some principles that have been managed by this committee of the Council of Ministers and these ruling escorts, on the basis of which these centres are intended, I think that Bjeljina meets all these conditions and it is quite certain that Bjeljina, with its size of 150 thousand and more than 150 thousand inhabitants and with 4 border crossing points on Bijeljina, is certainly meeting the conditions to be one of the borderline of these centres for indirect taxation and customs. That's how I'd like to know fate now, but I'm pretty sure 68
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10345	You'll get an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10346	They have similar amendments submitted by colleagues from the mind of SDS Mr. Novaković but he has withdrawn, and I know that Mr. Zoran Spasojević has submitted the same amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10347	You will be dobićet an explanation, Mr Blagojević submitted the amendment, he was the subject of the debate at the Commission. And it is the task of every MP to follow the fate of his amendment, and to decide today, he had to repeat it to this House. So, it's not enough to just talk about the amendment, so he has to get over it in order to make a statement, but you had an amendment on Bjeljina. I put up with it and it didn't go through. I'm asking you not to open the debate. We're done arguing. We're going to definitely make a statement. Please, the debate is closed. Final hearing, please. Please, if you think it's open, please welcome Mr. Spasojević and Dr. Lagumdžija. If you think it's open, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10348	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I think it's incorrect, but at the beginning of the session, I went out and asked to know what happened to my amendments that I submitted. Here ends this point, no means no one gave an explanation. The only informal explanation I got from the professional service, that they allegedly sent it to me yesterday at half past two, when I was already on my way, or when I was already in Sarajevo for another job. I think I should have received the Commission's report in time. She had her own session. I should have been sent in time to be informed that my amendments were rejected, so that I could know enough Rules of Procedure what my task is, and don't act like that. We know that, at least I know what it is, that I need to renew my amendments at this home, but I didn't get it to mean whether they're gone or not. So I wasn't informed about it, and now I'm asking for this to be resolved. Either my amendments are put to a vote, or someone is punished by this service.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10349	I thank you, I don't think anyone can be punished, that the service has determined its part of the job. We said one thing about the amendment. This one had such a destiny on the Commission. I'm really sorry. Here you go, Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10350	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10351	So they're looking for a word, they're saying open debate, what can I do? 69
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10352	Comrade Špirić, the debate is over. That's true, but in front of the SDA Club we've been informed why a break is sought and what their records are, I want not to open the debate again, but only to give the relic of what is denied. Here we are told first, it is incorrect that the introduction of Brcko that will cover the region that is gravitating Brcko district from Posavina to Bijeljina and I don't know as far as the south, does not destroy the concept of the existing Law on indirect taxation. So, the story about the introduction of only Brcko destroys the concept of law is a story for small children. I wouldn't answer for it. But here is a claim that is completely inappropriate to this House. We're told here, we'll be here because we'll bring this down in the House of Peoples. I find it inappropriate to this House, and I am obliged to say it. And anyone tomorrow would say that this House would support something that he would do anything to bring it down in the House of Peoples, and that here in this House would be part of the majority, and that in another home he would provoke to bring it down, it's incorrect to this home. And the other thing, or the third, I apologize, if you think you're in the House of Peoples against this, then it's hypocritical here to be in favour. And most of all, it's politics. And don't play with the dignity of this house, by threatening our MPs from another House. That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10353	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who, therefore, is to accept the proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in BiH in the second reading, with amendments adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? What abstention? So, of the 40 present, they were 32 against 7, abstention 1. We've got most of it. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? So 25 from the Federation for, 7 from Republika Srpska for. I find that the law has received an entity majority whether so, and I find that we have passed this law with the amendments adopted in the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done an important and good job. This little nervousness, it shouldn't spoil the impression of a job well done by this House of Representatives, which I'm convinced of. 70 We move to Ad.8. In a first reading of the Council of Ministers, the proposal for a law on defence with a request for consideration under Article 104 of the BiH Defence Act was submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Rules of Procedure of the House. It was sent to the MPs on 14 October 2003. At the 21st session of October 23rd, the House did not adopt the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure under Article 1o4. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 7 November 2003. We received a report from the Commission responsible in writing. The proposal for a defence law was also discussed by the Commission for Gender Equality, from the point of view of equality and the prevention of gender discrimination. The conclusion of this Commission has also been reached. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the Defense Act in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Đedović, so Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10354	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, while the emotions surrounding this previous law are subduing, I just want to warn a few things about the principles of the Defense Act. First, I welcome the efforts to make and pass this law, and I consider it to be the first, important but not sufficient step towards building modern, modernly compatible armed forces in BiH. I don't understand and I don't support the slowness in resolving such an important issue for BiH. When I say this, I mean the next one. We here have a consensus that we want to join Euro-Atlantic integration. At least verbal means, we want organized society, with clear rules of play. There is no illusion that the rules of the game will change because of us. And I think we're wasting unnecessary energy, time, nerves, people, generations of outwitting when things are completely clear. It's just a question of whether we're going to do something today, in a year, two or five, but every year, one generation is lost. And I think it's up to us to take faster steps and take risks and responsibility on that path. I'm saying at least we verbally all for it. At least we're verbally all for it. As far as these principles are concerned, I have one suggestion regarding Article 5 and Article 18. They're contradictory there when it comes to politics. Article 5 says that armed forces cannot be used, cannot be used for political purposes, and then we have a Article 18 where we say we have a deputy defence minister for politics and planning. In the modern armed forces, there are deputy defence ministers for development and planning or for planning and development. So something that the word politics excludes from that law. The other thing, which is very important, is creation. I understand the moment in which it was done, but regarding these opening remarks, I think it had to step more spiritually to create a more efficient organization. I think the Standing Military Committee here has become excess. Or at one point, he stands in the position of the Council, you can see it from Article 31 as an adviser to the BiH Presidency. All and one member of the BiH presidency, I think, have advisers on military matters. Who's listening to him? But Article c) or point C position in that same Article 71 says, when the Council on Military Affairs disagrees with the proposal to appoint the Presidency, it has the right to correct the decision. When he's the Commander-in-chief. I think it's a complex procedure that will cause terrible problems in practical functioning, and that procedure needs to be overcome. And, yet to eat, I will not spend your patience further on Article 68, too, he himself is contradictory. He says, "I'm bonding with politics again." Armed forces may be candidates for political parties in the elections. I find that absolutely unacceptable. This is absolutely unacceptable, imagine three generals from three different political options that speak in a political debate, or at political gatherings. I think anyone who wants to deal with politics before that should resign to a post in the cut-off force, let's go ahead, let's deal with politics or vice versa doesn't matter. But I think we're going to come up with very unpleasant situations, because they need to work on planning, development and training of the armed forces, not political competition. So these are the things that I just wanted to point out that it's being taken into account and that we're going through a phase to overcome that finding, because in practice I believe that we're going to have a lot less problems in the functioning of this law. Otherwise, I reiterate my support for the law, and I will absolutely support the principles that we are about to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10355	I thank Mr. Đedović, Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10356	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, we are now in a position to talk about one and perhaps the most significant reform law that is ahead of us, which has come to us from an authorised promoter, i.e. Council of Ministers. I just want to make a suggestion. This is a debate of the BiH Defence Law that has been discussed so far. We've had a lot of suggestions, statements on the issue. We don't have a minister or deputy from the Council of Ministers here. I propose that the chairman be called or invited by the Council of Ministers, therefore, by authorised motionors, or we end this debate, or we stop until someone from the Council of Ministers arrives, so that we can competently discuss the Defence Act. I think every other debate is too high.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10358	Mr. Chairman of the dom, Mr. Špirić, answered for his word. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10359	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, my personal position and this law, so my personal position is a partnership for peace, yes, NATO, but I'm against bad laws. I'll say what my personal observations are when it comes to this law. Although I appreciate that a lot of effort has been made, and of course an attempt to reach a compromise solution and I do not dispute that, of course, the parliamentary majority will adopt this law, which is also as good as it is that those who think they have better solutions keep them in the need that this law can be changed in the interests of this country and its citizens. It seems to me that, I will make my remarks to Article 2 in this law. So, on the principle that BiH's armed forces involve all military forces in BiH, whether organised by state or entity institutions. The BiH Armed Forces include the Republika Srpska Army and the Federation of BiH army. The Federation of BiH Army was legally established in 96 by the units of the Republic of BiH and the Croatian Defence Council. If it is said that this army has been legally established, then it is logical to state by which law and when the Republika Srpska Army is established or should not be called to law when this military component is concerned. What I also think is not good, in this law, is that, therefore, the defence minister is given unseen powers, even more powers than the chairman of the Council of Ministers, although I do not dispute that this is an important function and an important ministry in which it is said in Article 13(d) of the Defence Minister's authority, to order the use or deployment of the BiH Armed Forces to support any military or humanitarian operation. It would be perfectly logical for it to stand here, that the powers of the defence minister are to order the use or deployment of the BiH Armed Forces to support operations for humanitarian purposes, because once an army is used in this unfortunate country, then a lot of this goes on unfortunately against ordinary people and citizens. So, it would be good for these powers to be reduced to a reasonable measure. Also, it seems to me that the presidency's powers in relation to the military are too large, where it is said that if Parliament does not meet within 48 hours, it can also deploy and use the military unit. Parliament is absolutely bypassed. One in the presidency can get sick, has the right to various types of disease, and when a decision is made or pressured, it is easier to put pressure on the Presidency and on the defence minister than it is on the state parliament. So I think that these key state laws are a key role, an inevitable role must be played by the BiH Parliament, its role is not only to pass laws but to define its own role within these laws. Article 11 says that the planning and supervision of all intelligence operations falls within the competence of the State to carry out all strategic and operational intelligence activities. It is already clear to everyone in BiH that when Mr Čavić disbanded the Military Intelligence Centre in Republika Srpska, that he was working for this law at the time and that everything we're saying about this military intelligence centre was false and that the military intelligence centre was working according to the law. Unfortunately, many people had consequences because they were working in accordance with the law and the leadership behind the back of the people wanted to do the job in this way. 73 I have no objection to this being done in this way, but it must be quite transparent and not suffer the consequences of people who have done their part of the work in the scales with the law. And what I have an objection to, of course, is a member of the 47th, where the BiH Armed Forces says are made up of professional military personnel, recruits at military service and members of the reserve staff who have been mobilized to the military service. I am, of course, in favour of abolishing the recruitment in BiH. So, all over BiH. I guess the time has come after this bloodshed in BiH to bring the youth back to the state, to love the state, not to send without the need to join the army. To keep the army professional, on the same principles as provided for in this law, 8 plus 4 thousand. That someone who wants to be a professional soldier, would be allowed to do so and have tasks in accordance with the law. It seems to me that the way that it is, that recruiting is too expensive for the poor state of BiH, that what is invested in the cost of recruiting can be invested in creating new jobs, in training youth, in getting it to work within the state and to work for the BiH state. I know that various political debates have been conducted on this subject, but I don't think this solution is good. I can't support this solution. I cannot support it because no one can explain to me why the removal of recruitment is not in line with military standards, with standards of partnership for peace and NATO standards. So, it is in line with the standards, and this is a political agreement, so parliamentary majority, and even when they pass this law, I have to respect it, but I want to express my reserve, and while I'm working in this Parliament, I'm going to be pushing for the abolition of recruitment, because I think it's too expensive, I don't think it contributes to anything when it comes to youth and that love for these children should be created in a different way, rather than taking it four months to clean up the weapons and reminding us of something that was in the recent past, which caused of course tragic and psychological consequences both older and younger in BiH. It seems to me that this is an interdepartment and not a step enough. Third thing, that or I don't know the fifth thing, I'm reading this to the public only for the record, so we don't want to get back into a situation where we explain to the citizens what this law means. This is an important and key law, because in the strategy or security policy adopted by the Presidency there says that the first step towards a partnership for peace is the adoption of this law, but that the definitive step of joining NATO is one army. One army, it must be clear to all those who want people and citizens to deceive, that this law is not 90% of what will be in 3 years. That's why I'm against opening up the story of whether there's an army or not. And in article 74, the armed forces of BiH will have their flag, anthem and a mark. The flag and anthem will be the flag and the BiH national anthem and the mark will be the coat of arms of BiH. The mark will be worn by all members of the BiH Armed Forces. The use of the flag and national anthem will be mandatory for BiH armed forces. I, of course, don't mind Parliament adopting such a text of the law, but then we must be clear that other information cannot be given on the ground. Everything that becomes a special feature must be a special law. Entity law and believe that when this law is passed, it will be discussed in entity parliaments. 74 I must say that I have an objection to the Commission's report. It seems to me that the Commission wants to build on, and what's a special problem when the system laws are here, ladies and gentlemen, that's also in indirect taxation and in this law, is that there is a possibility of revote. I do not dispute that it is a democratic solution, but in this arrangement BiH is not the best solution. Therefore, it is not the best solution and in the report of this Commission, Amendment VI, which was accepted, has therefore become an integral part of the text of the law, that is, Amendment VI. The text of Article 49 shall be published The bill changes and says: entities will implement a single military service policy brought by the BiH defence minister under the law passed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I am only saying this for the sake of the clarity of this amendment that has entered the text, so that there will be no further warming of passions in the field especially to entities, that the soul of these young people who will serve the BiH army is once again in vain.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10360	I need you to go to the field.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10361	Please, this is of course, Mr. Belkić. Give me what you are. I really respect you when you come out to talk. I'll listen to every one of yours. If you don't go around my field, I'll go around. But this place where I as an MP have the right to say how I feel about the law. The amendment of IX ladies and gentlemen is absolutely excess in this law. It may be Parliament's conclusion, but it says so behind Article 78. The proposal for a law that comes to a new article, which reads as follows: the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, the entity parliaments, governments, and all entities of defence at the level of entities and states, will carry out the necessary activities within their own constitutional and legislative jurisdiction to meet the conditions for NATO membership from the start of the application of this law until the end of the transition period. I'm sorry, I'm not fit to be a member of the law. This could be the conclusion of Parliament. But if this text enters the law find me anywhere in any law of Europe or of the world where it treats this problem that one or another member exists, here I am simply going to correct my position. So this may be the conclusion of Parliament, but it is impossible for it to be a member of the law. So, if, of course, all of this can be discussed and the man is correcting and not insisting on it, but what I insist on as an MP, which he will insist on in the final statement, is the principle of abolishing recruitment, the introduction of a professional army. Thank you, lyapa.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10362	Mr. Ćeman Mirsad answered his word, so you, Martina, weren't there when I was this guy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10363	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have no intention of much talking about this law. I went out to say just enough that I am thinking that given the current situation in this area of law and the way it is, it is a significant step in one direction in which BiH should pursue whether or not it is a condition for a partnership for peace and 75 regardless of whether or not something like that should be, and in any case more than what is offered here should be a commitment or a advice for joining NATO. And I would have reason to be unsatisfactory with this law, and I could of course make a lot of remarks here today, especially because of what I think might be incorporated into this law today and that we already have the conditions for joining NATO as well, but I allow today what may be realistically possible and therefore just to say I support the bill not in everything satisfied, with what this bill offers inclusive amendments that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has adopted. But in any case, since it's a step forward, it's encouraging and should continue in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10364	I thank my colleague, Ćeman, for his word, Nikola Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10365	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I'll be very brief. I think that every normal person has their own vision of this law, and I'm sure everyone sees it their own way of reform. We're, uh, army reform and armed forces. We're all aware that this is what we should go into. We are all aware that this is a condition for what we call a partnership for peace and entry into NATO and tomorrow into the European Union, etc. However, what is already potential here and what I am potentialing also in front of the Club of Independent Social Democrats is a question regulated by the members of 39th, 47th, 48th, 49th and 50th, which is a matter of recruitment and military service. It's a question that I don't believe that, that serving a normal military term is our youth condition and not conducting a professionalization of this, that it's an obstacle to entering a partnership for peace. I think that we will still have to think about it, or that we can think about it, and I don't think it's at all an obstacle to suspending recruitment and serving a military deadline for entering a partnership, or that it's not an obstacle to professionalisation in a certain period, normally which should suggest a transitional solution normally for that period, etc., which is quite normal. Secondly, what can be resented in this law, I mean, there are certain inaccuracies, but this in Article 2 of potentialism, I think, here for one army that enters the armed forces of BiH for one, it turns out that there is a legal basis, for the other, that there is no. I mean, please, maybe I don't understand, but this one should have the same archaic when it's written. I may also understand, but whether anyone will understand, that is another question or whether they will understand those for whom the law is passed. And I guess there's a law being passed for all BiH citizens. Furthermore, I think that the Minister in Article 69, not the Minister but certain military persons, has been given great authority in the interpretation or implementation of the General Framework Agreement and the activities that are directed against it. I think that this is more pronounced here politically than it has legal weight, and that there are practically too many powers of these persons here, and that should be specified in any case, that the very interpretations of the application of the Dayton Agreement are maximumly consistent. 76 Also when it comes to an oath in article 73, I think this one is put in. I think it should reflect BiH's constitutional solution not to reflect it enough, and in that sense we will, we have submitted the amendments. What this one also, I want to present, and that's what we're not sure if we're even able, I filed the amendments this morning. Is that in line with the Rules of Procedure, since I didn't get the notice, but only this one, or the Constitutional and Legal Commission report this morning. As soon as I saw that the amendments submitted by the SNSD MPs' club were not accepted, I do not know whether we are in the process or not in the procedure under the Rules of Procedure, so I would ask for an answer in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10366	Thank you, colleague Kragulj. Dr. Petar Kunić picked up the phone. Dr. Petar Kunić doesn't have it. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10367	Dear colleagues, I will speak very briefly. It seems to me if there aren't a lot of speakers that we might be able to vote this one, maybe even before this, if of course there aren't a lot of speakers, so I'll be very brief. It is the right of every of course MPs here to be satisfied or not with the legal provisions in this and that is not disputed. What I think is controversial is that today we are discussing the law in the first reading, and there is no reason for the amendments to be made here and for time to be taken to talk about the amendments, which we can do in the second. Of all the things that were presented here could possibly be taken as a principle with full respect, therefore, as a principle of whether there is or no recruitment, everything else is pure amendments that will be in order in the amendment phase on which we will plead on the amendment phase. I don't think we should just talk here for the public of this place. It is necessary to say from this place what can contribute or not contribute to the adoption of this law. In particular, it is not correct to read those members that suit someone, not to read those others that do not respond, so I should now read Article 75 so I say entity armies...units can also have their flags, anthem, etc. So let me say here and it says it. But what kind of debate would lead us here from this place? The SDS Club will support the principles, first of all, because it has gained completeness, so it has been approved by the National Assembly in the debate, so at the National Assembly. On the other hand, the Commission, which was actively involved by the Minister of Defence of Republika Srpska, and others, has been having a difficult pain in the assuage that we are esteeming and esteeming here. For these reasons, we will therefore vote for this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10368	I thank my colleague Novaković. For the word of it, sir, shall we take a break now? Please, there's four more, let's get this over with. Mr. Križanović. Please be my guest. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10369	Ladies and gentlemen, I promise you I will be brief. First of all, I want to express my satisfaction that today we are discussing a very important reform law, a defence law. I would also like to express any commendation to the Defence Reform Commission, which has made a significant effort and has come to this draft law. But let me also express one fact and I don't know by which way the dissatisfaction, not by the Council of Ministers, not by the members of the Presidency. Especially when it comes to one system law as it was on the agenda today, the Law on the indirect taxation system and the BiH Defence Act. The BiH Defence Act, which is why we are entering this law into profound changes in the defence area in BiH, in defining the BiH Armed Forces, its organisation, structures, surveillance of the armed forces, etc. I think we can essentially say that this law and its special application of BiH and its citizens will certainly be safer than before. Armed forces cheaper, better dressed. We will have control of the armed forces and all together will make us a much closer part of NATO's great family. I would like to stress that the bill is fully compatible with the changes we are doing and we are trying to implement in order to bring the European Union closer. However, it must be said, secondly, that the bill does not have the necessary depth of these changes, and there is no need to say our sincere commitment to make faster and more fundamental changes that will bring us closer to the EU and NATO Alliance. I think there's still a lot of calculatoring in terms of how much something must be transferred to the state level and how painful it is to deny the entity's authority. In particular, I think that we need to realize that this is going quite slowly and we are constantly under the supervision of some deadlines for which this Parliament objectively neither has established those deadlines, nor has it threatened and challenged their execution. So, respecting all these circumstances, we have invested a certain part of the amendment in order to improve this text, but it is particularly important to us that an amendment defining BiH is its strategic goal of EU and NATO membership. For this reason, we are very interested in, unlike fellow Špirić, the legal obligation of all BiH authorities and entities, which have certain powers in the area of defence, to make efforts to ensure that, within this transition period, we have made further necessary changes in our defence system by the next 4 years, in order to meet the conditions for us to join the NATO Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10370	I thank my colleague Križanović. We've got three more interns. If there's a chance they'll be short, and we'll finish it, if not, then we'll take an hour off. Wait, can we please say the word Mr. Gligorić, Moranjkić and Mr. Raguž, that's the end of the report. Can we, then, but make a commitment? There is no Mr. Gligorić, so Mr. Moranjkić, but no more please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10371	Please take a 45 minute break, until 5:00, break please. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10372	Let's finish this, please. I would beg no more reported, so please refrain as there will be another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10373	Mr. Chairman, seeing as it's about to end, I'm going to cut short what I thought I was saying today. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers who I don't have as far as I can see, gentlemen of the Commission who worked here and I see these people thank them on my behalf, for having taken part in the seminar in Tesla and for seeing what a painful mining job they did while they came to this concept that is now presented here, headed normally with Mr. Noker, and headed by the ministers of entity defences and the whites of the other members of committees, advisors, etc. I thank them in my name and in the name of my club, because the law that has been filled with us is the law of difficult compromises. These were trench fights until this happened, and I asked at the seminar where you gentlemen went from. He says we're going with a few aspects, and the one that was in the first wave is what minimoons are. I'm sorry, Džaferović guess I'm the only one you've been asking for lately, or you're gonna get right to it, or that's what I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10374	No, no, you said you'd talk for a while, so I thought that was it, I meant nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10375	And that, I'm sorry. So this is minimum, it'll be short. This is a minimum that promises us to enter a partnership for peace. Short. Under this minimum, therefore, the relevant factors that worked on it said they couldn't go any further. The truth follows us the next step, it is entering NATO, that entry will seek the next part of the reform of these laws. I wouldn't talk about them, and one of them is a single army. I then spoke to the Commission and said that there was room for amendments to this. It is said that they accept amendments that improve the text, which do not change the concept of the law and I will behave in that context. I've already made four amendments to article 14, 19,42,48.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10376	The amendments will be in phase two.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10377	And so are they. I won't explain them. I call upon fellow Members of Parliament in this house to accept the law in the first reading and to amend what stands before us. That's if I'm short. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10378	I thank Mr. Moranjkić, the last to answer for the word Mr. Martin Raguž, and we conclude the debate because there are no reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10379	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for the first time I've called today. I'm reviewing the request for a break. I'll be brief. I'd say next. On behalf of the HDZ coalition, we Democrats will support the principles of this law because it meets those fundamental requirements for reforming the BiH Armed Forces and creating the assumption that BiH remains a full member of the first partnership for peace and further other security integrations. What is important here is to note that one of these fundamental principles was the establishment of state control, meaning the role of the Presidency, the new Ministry of Defence and vertical operational and administrative command, and these principles can be supported at this time. In the name of the coalition, too, I can say that it could have gone one step further and that we would have to do it as soon as we were better and that we are ready to have that kind of conversation, but we appreciate that at this point this is a real and possible compromise that needs to be supported. However, I have come forward because, even in the debate at the Constitutional Affairs Commission, I see again today, amendments that, although not today, are not an amendment phase, touch fundamental principles. That's why I think I can briefly comment on this one. All requests for amendment of Article 2 shall, in my opinion, touch the basic structure and fundamental principles agreed on by both the Commission for Reform and the Constitutional and Legal Commission to the People's House first and here. And I think that those who have suggested that only one part of that article should be affected, and not the full article in general, should be principled, and then give up the procedure for that article. Here, that's my suggestion and I think that would be extremely correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10380	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who's in favour of adopting the BiH Defence Act in the first reading? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 34 present, the vote was 28, against three, abstention 3.. I konstatuj that the BiH Defence Act has been adopted in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, for your information,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10381	Do you have an entity majority? 80
ParlaMint-BA_2003-11-20-0.u10382	It has an entity majority, here's for your information we plan to schedule Parliament's meeting Thursday at 9:00 p.m., to declare this law in the second reading and two other legal projects that make up a package of defence reform projects. So, Thursday at 9:00 p.m., you'll get calls, but you know you're planning to. On Thursday, the 27th at 9:00 p.m. will be Parliament's session. The session ended at 4:30.
