ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7731	Dear guests, I am opening the 11th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you all. I realise that today's session is attended by 39, here are 40 MPs from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this number of 40 according to the information of the professional services in the building is located at any moment, they should join the session of Mr Zorić Vinko and Andrić Filip. So they're in that number because I get a notice that they're present in the building because they were at the committee meetings this morning. Today's session, according to information available by the Professional Service, is not attended by an MP from Ms Azra Hadžiahmetović. So we have no information for her. Here's information from the president of the club that she is also expected to attend today's session and Mr Gligorić Tihomir is not present for today's session. I don't have any information as to why, and I don't have any information on whether he's coming to today's session. There are currently 38 MPs present in the hall. There's two in the building. I would ask professional services to inform these two MPs, Mr Andrić and Zorić, to join the session. So there are 40 MPs present so that today's session of our home can work properly and make decisions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have been invited to this session on the agenda. We subsequently informed you in writing that item 4 is excluded from the agenda. - Report on the achieved level of meeting the conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's EU accession process. The reason for removing the agenda item from today's session is that in subsequent consultations due to the importance of this issue it is decided to convene a Plenary session of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina at which 2 would discuss the issue. So, you've received a call for the Plenary Session, it will be held tomorrow at 10 o'clock exclusively on this subject. Before I explain the details of the agenda you received today, further details about the agenda you received today at the parliamentary desks- benches and this time we have a verification of the mandate of the new MP. There's 41 of us in the O.R. right now. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović is missing. So 41 MPs are present at the moment. So I suggest we finish the previous question first. It is a verification of the mandate of the MP from the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Mehmed Suljkanović, who, whose term of office has been verified after this House established the termination of the term of office of MP Izet Žigić for his departure to office in the executive power. I call on Mr Suljkanović to come to the pay phone to give a solemn statement and thus obtain the conditions for him to decide as an MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please stand up. You, sir, will read the text I read. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7733	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7734	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7735	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7736	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7737	Full implementation of General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7738	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7739	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms 3
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7740	To protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7741	To protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7742	Mr Suljkanović, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in my personal name, I would like to give you my congratulations in front of us just given a solemn statement and at the very moment of your term of office of the Representative of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7743	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7744	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have received a draft agenda that is as I have already told you today passed on to the parliamentary benches. This proposal, therefore, except for that point 4 concerning the EU and which we will consider tomorrow at the Plenary session of both homes, at the the thematic session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are therefore 3 more changes in the agenda compared to that of the original text you have received. Of course, the College of Homes and the Enlarged College of Homes have been manifested for several sessions held during the past days in preparation for today's 11th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Compared to the agenda you received earlier, about ten days ago, the 3rd point – The completion of the vacant seat of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency in the order of the Serbian people is now the point of the daily. As you know, a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, Mr. Šarović, resigned under the law, according to the Constitution. The Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina should react without delay and you received Mr. Šarović's resignation several days before this session, so this is the agenda point today. Both points 16 and 17 of the original agenda are new points of the agenda. This is: - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a joint commission of both homes for European integration and 17. The appointment of members of the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes for European integration. This is a new item of the agenda, which has been announced many times before. Preparations have been completed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. 4 An agreement has been made between the Colleges of Both Homes and the College of Both Homes, proposing to the homes a conclusion on the formation of this important commission to deal with the issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration, so that these two points relate to the conclusion that the Commission's description of the action, its structure and the decision-making method and, of course, the next point of completion of that part of the commission, which is filled in by the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We expect the House of Nations to do the same thing as soon as possible. So that's the draft agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Nikola Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7745	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers on behalf of Mr Nikola Špirić and Milorad Živković, I would like to propose that, at today's session, instead of the 3rd session, which was subsequently put forward in addition to the agenda, the draft law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law. I agree that this is a very serious issue – the completeness of the vacant place that it is likely and urgent because it does not suffer according to the Rules of Procedure this institution is working in the back. However, I think we need to create, we think we need to create more real conditions for selecting and filling the vacant seat of a member of the presidency. In fact, we can consider the intended, envisaged completion of this place legal, but the question is whether it is legitimate, whether it is logical, fair, democratic and whether this election does not look like a contractual act in which several votes can provide the fullness of a member of the Presidency of one of the most important functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why we propose to consider this proposal for today's session instead of point 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7746	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7747	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'm actually not talking about the agenda, I'm talking about the agenda. You know I am the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee who has worked hard over the past period to all that is in her jurisdiction in time and how well it is possible to do this and deliver its reports to the College of the Home, that is, this home. 5 In the proposal for today's agenda under point 8. I see the proposal for a law on enforcement procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a second reading. Of course, as a member of this House and on behalf of the Commission, we welcome this item of the agenda and, as you yourself have seen in the past preparation period for the session, there has been no amendment to this law. But there is a need to complete legislation so that the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina can work. It has also been established in this context over the past months on committees, i.e. before this house, in the procedure of the Proposed Law on Prosecution before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has on two occasions raised this question at its session, but on behalf of the legislator, no one has responded to at least explain the bill's proposal or inform the Commission of any other intention when it comes to this bill. We have some informal, we have some informal information regarding this bill, but we have been forced to conclude at the final session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission this item of the agenda by establishing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that, in two times, the proposing representative did not attend this session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the bill is considered withdrawn. There have been proposals on the Constitutional and Legal Commission to come to the Council of Ministers and to the public in a stricter form for this kind of attitude towards, if you will, this working body, but in the end, it has overcome the position and my obligation to turn from this place to Members and to say that the Commission considers this relationship to be absolutely inappropriate to it, or to propose legislation. Of course, we are not going into whether or not we should have, whether or not the law should have been withdrawn, etc., but simply the Commission and every other working body should have been informed about this issue, or whether or not the intention of this law. I was obliged to take this out. I said the occasion is, regarding this agenda and I pray therefore all the mandated promoters, it is not only the Council of Minsitarians, but in the future that each working body and its proposals are properly referred to so that each working body, and the Constitutional and Legal Commission, can respond in good time to its business obligations towards this home. So take this as information, or as an appeal to the future when this is similar issues when it comes to perhaps the practice of change. We understand, of course, and I will end up with these difficulties in the constitution, i.e. the start of normal work better said by the Council of Ministers and the RES, etc., but at the very least it could have really been at least come and say we can't or can't, and this is the plan when it comes to this law. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7748	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7749	I welcome all present and I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, propose to take point 10. The draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Emigrants Matika removes it from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7750	I thank Mr. Zorić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7751	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council, distinguished guests, I will, of course, have one review, one proposal on the agenda. My consideration will refer only to the support of what the president of the club Mr. Nikola Kragulj has said with certain and small clarifications. First of all, I would like to say that the fullness of a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, regardless of which people came from which entity he came from, for the work of a position which that member should perform for the role of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has earned the reputation and dignity if nothing special is held with one item of the agenda, which is – The popuna of the full member of the Presidency. I am afraid that the kombe we are making hastily led by some of my unknown interests, often speed and night arrangements have not proved good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why I think today makes sense, primarily by respecting the will that the citizens have made in the previous democratic elections and saying what they think about election functions and what they think about candidates who were candidates for the presidency. It is quite accidentally now that it is a full member of the Republika Srpska presidency from the Serb people's ranks. Let me remind you of the Electoral Law adopted by this parliamentary assembly with a call, so Article 8.4 to the Legislatives Act, which was imposed primarily by the High Representative, and it seems to me that Parliament has adopted to fill the seats of the Presidency, but according to the PIC rules, the Interim Election Commission. At that time, it was also a need because the electoral law had not been passed before it pointed out the mandate to members of the presidency who were elected under the PIC rules procedure and the law expecialis had to remain alive in the Electoral Toon. 7 And I will remind you of what it says in that article. This is where you say Article 8. – The provisions of this law apply to members of the Bureau selected in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission. We gentlemen don't have such members of the presidency after these elections. What would you do, in my view, is a normal state that cultivates a democratic tradition to amend only one member of the Electoral Law that fills the place of one who has won the highest confidence of citizens in the election. Today, by adopting an amendment to the Electoral Law, we would have resolved the procedure, we would have solved the problem of completing members of the Presidency as well as any democratic state, unless some contractual mechanisms of the role of members of the Presidency when we already have the Electoral Law to derogate. So I think today would be a good time for this agenda point to replace our proposal with point 3. I expect that all those who swear on democratic procedure and democratic relations will, above all, support this insistence of ours and believe that it is the same principle, regardless of what political options it is. But to show it simply, we publicly manifest what the voter's voice means to us. Does he bind us, does he bind us? So that's our proposal. We expect support on this proposal, and that would solve the problem. If it happens, and this variant is possible that there is no understanding, I would like to ask, then, that I should also ask the MPs of Republika Srpska who will only approach the voting act to extend it in at least 7 days to carry out at least a quality debate, to give rise to this new one who will fill the Presidency, to create an atmosphere in which it is possible if there is no mood for the first model, it will end in another way in that sense if there is just so much urgency from your attitude today, it will depend on our relationship at all according to that act. If it comes to him. We, my personal position is that it's not something to do with cartoons, and it seems to me that we're on the right track. But here's what depends on whether there's any mood to put this in the agenda at all. Another thing you'd like to suggest as a part of the agenda. You know that, of course some know, some were MPs two, two, and a half years ago, having a heated debate about the process of demining Bosnia and Herzegovina. That at that time we had a very difficult time and passed the Demining Act. That we had the huge assistance of friends of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the strongest states of Europe and the world above all the United States and the US Embassy and that we passed that law and I thought that in Bosnia and Herzegovina those elected and in charge of it would take more care of the process. Unfortunately, from day to day, there are more victims than minefields, and less and less concerns from the state and state authorities about the process, although the commission is partly being paid out of the budget. I have information that says that there is a strong presence in this process, a strong presence which, let's simply call money laundering, that companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot participate in tenders, or if they participate, they are the most frequently annulled and are given to Slovenian companies, because the chairman of the commission is the one who is called the ITF commission from Slovenia. That this points to a negative trend and I am ready to propose that this Parliament ask the Commission for information on the demining of how this process is going, how are the tenders for the process of demining and building a single information base in terms of field recording, is this job done? I have information that we lost donor funding for 2002, that no KM has been spent working on these problems I'm talking about. So let's put it as a part of the agenda so these deliver us information, if they have. If they don't have it, it's worse. But to have at least the conclusion that Parliament has a conclusion or a commission is formed to review how tenders went, whether funds were spent or not. Or simply ask the Assembly to conclude a report on the process concerning the future lives of children and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7752	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I would only ask that when you step forward for a pay phone to finally get rid of some structures, some ugly names for this House, because it really shouldn't be like you, and certainly not like this Parliament. This is not a chimbur, this is a session of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parlametre Assembly's House of Representatives meeting, which was called several days before Mr. Šarović resigned. And after Mr. Šarović resigned, the assessment of my and the College was that it would be quick enough, because it should react as soon as possible to the situation as possible if this was as top of the agenda as the agenda point of the already scheduled session. That's why no special session was scheduled. I would ask you, therefore, you have the right to your reservation, but when you use some qualifications to avoid this one then let me not even know how to call them comparisons. Mr. Elmir Jahić asked for a word. If she's guilty, here you go. No, no, Mr. Jahić, so Belkić, and Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7753	Mr. Chairman, in my performances, I am very good at making sure that I respect everything called the institution of the state and the institution at any level. You will rarely hear from me a word that is in the final season, but I warned you not to do what you said. 9 So I didn’t say it was, but here we are today going to have a chance to demonstrate whether we’re on our way to make it or yes. So I begged you not to do it. And here's why I didn't say it was, but since you have a need to warn me more often, Bosnia and Herzegovina won't get anything on your sink. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens will not have higher salaries and pensions. He won't be employed anymore. Let MPs debate democratically in their Parliament and their country. You're insulting, like you're your sister-in-law, not Parliament's president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7754	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I would, of course, like you're acting like you're saying at the pay phone right now, but I'm only going to instruct you to review the stenograms of your discussions from previous sessions, and that's where I'm going to stop. Mr. Elmir Jahić has his word. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself. After him, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7755	I fully believe that this proposal on amending the law, i.e. how to fill the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, aims to make a better solution to this problem. It should also be borne in mind that these solutions actually involve changing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law. I would like to say that I too have a number of objections to the Electoral Law and it would be good to open this discussion in the next period, so that debate on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law. However, we should also respect some of the facts during these discussions, i.e. the desire to put this issue on the agenda. So change of electoral law. First of all, I believe that it should not be partial, but rather be a serious discussion, a serious debate that would cover all those segments where we have shortcomings in the Electoral Law. However, we should bear in mind, as regards today's situation, that the law is whether or not to be adopted today, those amendments to the law cannot be applied retroactively so that the situation arises, so to the situation which we now have is applied exclusively to existing solutions defined by the Electoral Law. Also, if we consider that in several cases we have already tested these solutions in filling the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency in the past period, so with the same law. So we can't change the law from situation to situation, not to tell if it's right for us. Amendments to the Election Act, following an election cycle which is behind us, can only be applied to the next elections. So if there were to be some change in the Electoral Law on this issue, there would still be nothing we could do, but we should wait for it to be the next 10 elections. Otherwise, there would be distortions and credibility of the electoral process itself, so it would be even more questionable whether the election results are. And not to say that the law must be passed on both homes, and we were saying that all of us were just a matter of urgency that as soon as the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina began to work at full capacity. The amendment of the law in this way contrary to some of the facts and rules can go into effect and be one political message in fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is one country where there is one legal uncertainty that laws can be changed ad hoc etc. Given therefore that and the positive commitment of MPs who have submitted this request and faith that they certainly do not want it, I hope that they will withdraw this proposal and therefore, but that in the coming period we will prepare quality amendments to the Electoral Law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7756	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mr. Belkić, Novaković, then Mr. Živković. They have so far been reported interested in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7757	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, The Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina will support this initiative, therefore, by including the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the agenda of today's session for the simple reason why we are experiencing and interpreting this initiative as the beginning of the process of synchronising Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law with European standards, which is in some way our accompanying obligation. We sincerely hope that the promoters, the initiators of these amendments will remain consistent and will be ready to go into the further process of harmonising the electoral law with European standards and when it comes to the way members of the Presidency are elected and when it comes to a number of other discrepancies with European standards, including, of course, the opening of a debate on the possible need and change of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7758	Thank you. Mr. Jahić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7759	The fact that neither the party nor I was mentioned personally, I would like to say, however, that I am a little surprised by the position of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, why that attitude was not when Mr Belkić was to take up that position as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Why didn't you react then? 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7760	Thank you. Sir, Mr. Novaković. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7761	The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, distinguished guests, I will only comment on this proposal by my fellow SNSD colleagues without any real intention of making any kind of elaborate on this proposal and bearing in mind the importance of this issue, but also the way this issue is trying to appear here in front of this house. I would like to say first that I have often agreed with some of my colleagues who have proposed this in our protest that we adopt the laws by emergency procedure, or by Article 105, and especially when we propose MPs or club members. But obviously, in this case as in some other cases, as one of my friends says, the headquarters determines the view, so at this point it means depending on the necessary position we decide on one or another vote. Indeed calling upon my people here a little, at least of these colleagues came and cynicalally considering how they treated the voices of the people these days. And how they showed public statements according to this case how much they appreciate the votes of the people, and it seems to me that Mr. Šarović has received at least a third more from candidates whom they think he is ensnaring in this way. And of course as my friend Špirić says, changing or not amending the Election Law will not make Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens more paid and pensions, they will not live better, they will not have health insurance etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7762	Thank you. Mr. Živković. Before that, Mr. Špirić blames the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7763	I thought counterpart Novaković would follow his party leadership's stance not to irritate. The false allegation is that he expected others to regret Mr. Šarović at a time when they agree that he should do so from the same party. The wrong allegation and in terms of what would be good would be to take care of the election result if the SDS, so I'm speaking publicly here at the pay phone. The SDS is also a punishment for the Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. At least I felt the need to be aware of that at a time when Bosnia and Herzegovina needed reforms, not shifts for a month, five or a half years. Procrastinations in reforms that both Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities have been stifled, I thought we'd definitely paid that price, and unfortunately we haven't. 12 But I will this day, gentlemen, even though it comes to it, it makes us see who is for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is for cementing division. We're all about to say what Bosnia and Herzegovina we are about today. Here. I'm a legalist. I'll respect all decisions, but I can't, you can't take my right to plead as I see those decisions. So today there is also Mr Jahić who defends the position of SDS and Mr Tupajić, who defends the discussion in the National Assembly of the Moft of Mr Efendija Cerić. So in this country there are many things replaced. My position is, therefore, that I have publicly said that the candidacy of the SDS MP for the presidency is a punishment for who you propose, the punishment for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the punishment for the entity. I guess I'm clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7764	Thank you. Mr. Živković. Here you go, Mr. Živković. Just to let you know that Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović is also present, so there are 42 MPs present. Yeah, that's what I owe the rest to say, because I mentioned the name as a missing MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7765	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7766	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7767	I answered because of two exact allegations. However, I waited my turn. Namely, I wanted to tell Mr Jahić, he comes from Republika Srpska although he is from the SDA Party and represents one point of view that is quite contrary to the position that happens in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You cannot represent one position in Republika Srpska, and the other you can represent in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How can the Federation change the Constitution, change the Election Law because there is an obvious lack in the Election Law, and there is no way to form the House of Peoples. So it can also be done in Republika Srpska, i.e. in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law. On the other hand, Mr Novaković said of the SNSD MP's non-discipline position regarding the Rules of Procedure and Article 105. We don't think it's necessary to move that member, or it shouldn't be a rule. But we think it's a good thing he's got in the Rules of Procedure and he needs to use it out of necessity. And what's more urgent than if we don't have a member of the Republika Srpska presidency. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7768	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr Miloš Jovanović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7769	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I understand my colleagues from the SNSD that they are willing to be a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I mean, there's nothing weird about it. It's all normal. He would respect that opinion if fellow Špirić in the last session when we adopted the Election Law proposed an amendment to what he is looking for today. So the wish is that from case to case, so today something suits me, I'm going with changes and additions to something, and tomorrow probably won't work for me, etc. I say, I repeat, you would have respected when we passed the Electoral Law if it had been proposed by the amendment, then it would have been a different and more honest story. And this is who will be punished, I think only Mr. Špirić will be the most punished you are here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7770	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Jahić, sir, replica is it. Here you go, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7771	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7772	Of course you can. Just wait your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7773	I'm obliged to replicate again since I've been mentioned twice. I'd like to say that I personally, and not the political party I come from, we're not holding anyone's side. The SDA is the strongest parliamentary party in Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is no need to keep anyone's side. We simply want to point out, or I personally want to point out some facts and what they are and how everything can be implicated, or how all the consequences can have the adoption, or the amendment of the Election Law at the moment when, therefore, I do not repeat these things that I just said. So, even so, if we adopt amendments to the Electoral Law in the way it is predicted in full to the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, we cannot apply it to this election process, but we should wait for the next election. So 14 counterproductive indeed and don't let me think that this is done for some political manipulation policy, etc. etc. As for some double SDA standards in two entities, I would like to say that we are not amending Republika Srpska's Election Law, but rather Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law. Also, as for the Federal Parliament of the House of Peoples, the difference is that in this way one of the people in the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the times that you propose, so the election, i.e. filling the presidency with this case from the order of the Serbian people of the Presidency is being extended, and therefore we do not have a representative of one of the people in the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. As for the House of Peoples in the House of Peoples in the Federal Parliament, there is therefore a Club of Members of the Serbian People, but it is not complete. You know, there are nine members, and it's supposed to be 17, and there's also a fill-in procedure that's by the constitution whether it's guaranteed by filling out those members. So they are elected from the Cantonal Assembly, unfortunately there are nine MPs from the Serb people's order in the cantonal congregations. And that is why the changes are needed, whether the election law is in that segment with which it does not mean that if changes are made they will now be completed. So we can wait, again we'll probably have to wait for the next election cycle. There's so much
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7774	Thank you. Mr. Špirić has asked for a word to correct what he says is wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7775	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I would pray therefore when, I feel that there is often no reading of what we have on the table, no reading of the laws and therefore entering the wrong allegations, because someone comes with a given political stance of the party and reluctantly gives up on it, but I can't help it. The permanent electoral law adopted by Article 8.4 is clear and says – If a member of the Bureau for any reason ceases to perform his office or if he is permanently or temporarily incompetent to perform his duties, replacing a member of the Bureau shall assume the duties of a member of the Bureau in accordance with the law on filling the vacancy of a member of the BiH presidency during the term of office. "BiH Official Messenger" 21/00. And this law of legislators, gentlemen of Article 8, says – The provisions of this law apply to members of the Bureau elected in accordance with the rules of the Interim Election Commission. The law had to remain in force, as the mandate lasted for members of the presidency elected by members of the PIC. This is called the softest legal gap that many who have already agreed on a solution do not want, will or cannot see. Is there really a need to build a hide-and-seek? Why doesn't the SDA publicly say we're with the SDS, 15 support the SDS? We have a problem solved. Do you think that'll help the citizens? So now there's some kind of equiliblystric confusion. I get it. I respect a clear attitude. Don't be nervous with Jovanović. You'll have a member of the Bureau. What's wrong with SDA support? Well, he's blaming the quote. Wrong quote. Why are you running away from supporting citizens and talking about reforms and a single Bosnia and Herzegovina, about one army, about a partnership for peace, and here you won't even help each other on these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7776	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Please remain calm in the O.R. Please, please. Mr. Novaković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7777	I would just like to remind myself that in the same Official Messenger, the decision of the High Representative, Mr Petrič, on the amendment and addition of the law and which was never adopted, means, or confirmed in the parliamentary procedure. And that we would have to put that decision and that decision out of force, and as far as I know we are not able to put aside the High Representative's decision. So even by that logic, it would be very difficult for us today and if we wanted to, we could do what is proposed here. Of course, the position of the SDS Club is that we will not support the proposal to put this law on the agenda today. I would also like to inform this house that because of the idnitability of this home, but we will not continue to participate in discussions with the SNSD on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7778	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7779	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the chair, the esteemed colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Council of Ministers, I fully agree with the dreams that have said and repeated several times that what has been discussed is something that will not result in even higher salaries, or higher pensions, and all that I fully agree with in this regard. My proposal for the agenda has nothing to do with this point, so I've been waiting for this to end, so I'd like to suggest that I ask the question whether it's some kind of mistake or whether it's supposed to be officially repeated. In fact, before I ask the question I often ask, the Council of Ministers today filled them with 100 days as they were chosen so that in a certain way this stage we were trying to give you to do your job, not to bother you very much. 16 And according to what we received from the documents, today seems to be the time for the Bulldozer Commission. The truth somewhere in the media says it expires in 10 days or 14 days, but if a 150-day Bulldozer commission is formed on November 12th to come out to end 50 reforms, then the 150-day period has expired today. At the session of the previous Mr. Chairman, I asked for the material that I consider and the whole project of the Bulldozer Commission and economic reforms that should be more concerned with the fact that we have a agenda point in the context of the overall programme of economic reforms and the implementation of the programme of the part relating to the work of the blue book – work and justice, that we have a session dedicated to this and that we have a session dedicated specifically to our and in general to the whole picture from the domain of what is called the popular Bulldozer Commission. It wasn't adopted then. According to Article 47, we have collected signatures asking for this item to be placed on the agenda. You, Mr. Chairman, said after we collected the signatures that we didn't even have to collect them because you certainly thought it was on the agenda. No matter what, we don't have it on the agenda today, and I think on the assumption that that drama or play, comedy, whatever you want in the theater that we had, it wasn't a substitute for that part of the agenda. I expected to have that today. So I ask the question before we read about the agenda from you, Mr. Chairman, from the prime minister perhaps the best you can tell us – are we going to have a serious debate in Parliament on this issue? So that we can answer the question – will we finally have, now that 100 days are up, will we get as Parliament a programme of realization of that part of the work from the reform package? And let's see if there's any problems with the Bulldozer Commission where we are right now. So, I would once again, I have no intention, so you don't have to put it to a vote, because we're not going to remember that through the revote we refuse or accept this, but I really think it would be, to say the least, correctly to move from the dead point when it comes to, as Parliament, as Parliament. I have no doubt that you are doing a lot, but as Parliament, to move from a dead point when it comes to the realization of part of the famous programme – work and justice relating to work and to actively engage as Parliament in what is called the realization of commitments from the Buldozer project, or the trencher, I no longer know how it is, in particular, that you took pictures of yourself on the diver. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7780	All right, we got it, Mr. Lagumdžija. Thank you. Just so you know, this isn't the moment of the session where the questions are asked, it's where the proposals are presented when it comes to the agenda. 17 Who else wants to talk about the agenda? You're looking for a word. Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7781	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I must not again ask on some debate shows whether we respect the Council of Ministers all MPs of the House of Representatives, including Mr. Lagumdžija, I must immediately answer the questions that have touched the Council of Ministers' work according to the Buldozer Commission's report. It was a great pleasure not to be able to attend the performance at this theater, the National Theatre in Sarajevo, because that's why we did our job. So the Council of Ministers has, of the 13 points in the Buldozer Commission report, completed and sent everything related to legal regulations to the House of Representatives and the reason why it is not present today is certainly only one, which is that the Administrative Service did not respond quickly enough and delivered it to the College of Representatives. We have five decisions left for tomorrow that do not go to the Representative and attestation, five decisions in the domain of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and thus to fulfill all that has been taken by the Council of Ministers, as regards the report by the Bulldozer Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7782	I thank Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Since no one's answering for the agenda anymore, I'm closing the debate on the agenda and we're moving on to a plea. Mr Kragulj's first proposal was to include, instead of point 3 which provides for the selection of members of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the order of the Serb people, so instead of that point, the agenda item - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law. So that's what the proposal said. I'm asking you who's up for this proposal? Who's against this proposal? Detained who? There's no one here. Okay. Of the 42 MPs present here for the proposal, 20 voted against 22 MPs, and I find that the proposal did not win the general parliamentary majority and that it did not pass. 18 We move on to another proposal. Mr. Ćeman gave one legal public review, it wasn't a suggestion. We move to a statement on Mr. Vink Zorić's request for the 10th agenda to be taken off the agenda today. I just have to warn that this is a mandatory item of the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure, that the law cannot be removed from the agenda when the conditions for being on the agenda have matured. But if the MP insists on voting on it, of course I will not refuse to vote on it. But I warn you that this is a mandatory item of the agenda and I ask you, who is for Mr Zorić's proposal? Thank you. Who's against Mr Zorić's proposal? Thank you. Who's being held back from the proposal? Thank you. Of the 42 MPs, 17 voted in favour, against 21, 4 were abstentions. I'm guessing the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the third proposal we had as a new proposal here and last – this is the proposal by Mr Nikola Špirić - to include information on the tendering for the creation of a spatial basis for the establishment of information systems for demining purposes in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the 16th point of the agenda. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Okay. Who's being held back? No abstentions. I can already conclude with certainty that this proposal has received both general and entity parliamentary support, because everyone I have seen is against it. Let the services write exactly how much it was. This way, after having been held after the debate, after a statement has been made, I declare that the agenda of the 11th session of this house is as follows 1. Journal of the 9th and 10th Sessions of the House of Representatives, 2nd Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Filling the vacant seat of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency member in the order of the Serb people, 4. Report on meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitments as members of the Council of Europe, 5. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Commission’s work report on the status of naturalised persons in the period from 6.4.’92. Until the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 19 6. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System, the Law in First Reading, 7. A Proposal for a Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum, Second Reading, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on enforcement proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, second reading, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 10. Proposal for a Law on the Matika of emigrants Bosnia and Herzegovina, Second Reading, 11. Proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition, first reading, 12. Proposal for a bill on health protection, herbs, first reading, 13. Selection of 3 members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on a single text of the Law on Equality and Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14. Report on the financial operations of the Public Enterprise News publishing organisation "The Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina" per year account for 2002, 15. SNSD and MPs Tihomir Gligorić and Mirko Blagojević's proposal for a vote on mistrust by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, 16. Information on open tenders for the creation of a spatial basis for the establishment of information systems for demining purposes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a joint commission for both European integration homes, 18. Appointment of members of the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes in the Commission of both homes for European integration, 19. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin (b) of Protocol XII to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and (c) of Protocol XIII of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the elimination of the death penalty in all circumstances. So that would be the agenda of today's session. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, that's all. On what grounds? You're looking for a break for 30 minutes. Come out for the pay phone just so I know. So this is the agenda of the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7783	In accordance with Article 62 of The Rules of Procedure of the 62nd member of the Rules of Procedure are looking for a half-hour break because in the agenda, the reason is that it did not enter the agenda by this Parliament the point of acceptance - the amendment and addition of the Election Law. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7784	So you're looking for a 30-minute break like the club is. I'm taking a 30-minute break. We're continuing exactly 15 to 12. /PAUZA 30 Minutes/ Wanted by the president of the SNSD Club Mr. Kragulj. You have the right to contact after your break. You won't. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th sessions of the dom of Dama and Gentlemen MPs, you received the minutes from the 9th and 10th sessions of the House. I'm opening a debate on these records. Who wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're moving on to a record statement from the 9th session. I'm asking you who it is to adopt the 9th session minutes. Thank all those in favor. Who's against it? There aren't any. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I understand that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 9th session. I'm asking you who it is to adopt the minutes of the 10th session? A copy of the record, actually. Thank you very much. Who's against it? I don't mind. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I also find that we have adopted the minutes of the 10th session of the House. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 2. Parliament questions and answers Until this session, we have received answers to a number of questions and that answers to the questions of MPs: - Seade Palavrić, Ibrahim Đedović, Tihomir Gligorić, Mladen Potočnik, Sead Avdić, Mirsad Ćeman, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Milorad Živković, Borislav Paravac and ruža Sopta. I'm opening up the possibility of asking MPs questions. The first answer was Mr. Felić Hazim. 21 It is not according to the Rules of Procedure whether you are satisfied, or whether you are not satisfied. Where is it? Mr. Felić Hazim has his word. Here you go. Have Mrs. Palavrić prepare. I'll list you all. Take it easy. I know, let's go this side first and then we'll list this side.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7785	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers of the Council of Ministers, my question is: - I ask the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do their utmost to prevent the construction of a nuclear waste dump in the Shop Gora, the Republic of Croatia near the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the river Una. Their vote against the construction of this dump was raised by municipalities from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Buzim and Bosnian Krupa, from Republika Srpska Novi and the Republic of Croatia's Court to the Union. It does not need to be specifically explained what building such a dump would mean for the Una River, flora and fauna, and for the life of the population in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7786	Thank you, sir, let Mrs. Palavrić take her word for it. Now, please, let's see, everybody, raise some questions for the MPs. So let me write it like this -- Ćeman, Jović, and then we'll write it on this side, Mr. Duraković, and then we have, on this side, raise your hands to write, just so I know the order. Well, you won't, Zorić, please, just excuse me. Zorić, away from this side who's next. Novaković. Which on this side here next. Bešlagić. Who did I skip? I wrote Zorić. On this side here, who's next? There isn't. Okay. Jahić, then Križanović, then Andrić, then Lagumdžija, then Sopta, then Mr. Moranjkić, Avdić, Potočnik. That's it. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić. So we have a limited time of two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, fourteen, fifteen. Three minutes is maximum. Hold on. That's 45 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7787	I'll try to ask three questions in three minutes. 1. We know that the EU has made it possible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to export agricultural products under more favourable conditions. I ask Council of Ministers 22 - What are the assumptions that need to be fulfilled in order to begin, so that citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina can start exporting their agricultural products to the EU? 2. Also to the Council of Ministers - What should be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that from canton to canton we can register a cell phone or pay for a fixed phone in one post office? Because I from Tuzla can't pay my fixed phone in Sarajevo or Tuzla can register a mobile phone in Sarajevo, let alone between two entities. 3. An independent state-run Communications Regulatory Agency and the Council of Ministers. - Is it true that ERONET donated EUR 130,000 to the Communications Regulatory Agency or EUR 260,000 to finance a study on the assessment of the value of the licence for the third JEESEM operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I expect answers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7788	Mr. Ćeman. Here you go. Mr. Lagumdžija's business intervention. Excuse me, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7789	Dear Chairman, first of all, I think that the function of Parliament's questions in general is that you are completely changing in the way that the same ones are going. The Rules of Procedure provide, I would like to remind you of Article 126 that the questions will be set out for an hour at each regular plenary session, paragraph 3. The second is a sentence, the answer to questions will be included in the agenda in the same order they are placed under, etc. In other words, there has always been order in this congregation since it exists, in this congregation, in this way organized from museums to today, that MPs who get questions when you declare and tell who are being asked questions, that the MP says he is or is not satisfied with the question. And then he's a member of 127th and 128th with an answer, and I apologize to you for being right, Nijaze. So if the MP is not satisfied with Article 127, he is defined as an MP, then he says he is not satisfied, and then whoever answered him again gives him the explanation and then you can eventually conclude. You made us ask questions here, we get answers, we didn't like it. If that's the way you're going to work, then let's not ask questions. Because that is the least said total devaluation of the MPs' institute. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7790	Gospodne Lagumdžija, I invite you to re-examine the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to parliamentary matters. I never once said you had the right to say what you think about the answer to the question you asked. So I didn't say it once, and I didn't say it today. I only invite you to consider some of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of the answers that come in oral form or verbally after this speaker at the same session when asking questions and answers that come when in writing. You will, of course, have the opportunity as an MP, you have applied today for a point of Parliament's questions, to say how you feel about the answers to the questions you have received. Don't tell me something I didn't mean, nor did I think of thinking. After all, I didn't say. So you're going to have the opportunity to say, give your review in the time provided for this item of the agenda on what came to you in response. I just want Mr. Lagudmdži here to introduce order by respecting the Rules of Procedure, to observe the time of three minutes and to maximum, to finish this agenda in an hour. Nothing else was my intention. Please, nice. Business again. You have the right to a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7791	Mr. Džaferović, I have been in this House since '96 and I know what the unwritten rules and written rules are. It is very clear here in Article 126(3) that the order answers the following questions. In other words, I'd like to ask you, you can interpret whatever you want. Look at the stenogram of what you just said at the beginning when I told you I was looking for an answer. You said the answers weren't foreseen. It would have been normal and it was always so done in Parliament until you came to say at first who got the answers. People are manifested by those answers. An indication of the answers that people received and after that goes to the Rules of Procedure, according to the agenda point. That's how it was done. You can change that order now, but I really don't see why you're doing it? I would ask you, because you are now offering me to give my statement of answer to the questions asked by the people who are asking today. Are you doing this with the intention of losing order when the question was, when was the answer? Is that a question of answer? The answer to the answer? Or so on. I don't know what you're doing. The entire institution of parliamentary issues is changing completely in this way, and I think that the least said is counterproductive. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7792	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7793	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I really want to respect this Rules of Procedure and try to read it consistently. But really in these questions and answers there are so many misunderstandings that I don't know how to act. In article 125, he said that questions are being submitted to the chairman in writing. Here at this session, I took a written question. You're Mr. Chairman. You've got that question. The matter of the Rules of Procedure should be given to someone to whom it is addressed to the Ministry. If no oral or written response is provided, the answer shall be oral. Mr. from SDA Mr. Felić practically got the word and asked the same question I asked by chance. But I put him in the process. And now I'm interested in what first word he had? Him or me who respected it properly. And now I expect the Council of Ministers to answer that question, to come out here and answer that question because it's oral. Let's just stick to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7794	Of course we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. So there's no problem. We'll work as long as we can. You are Parliament, I am only part of this Parliament and chair. The Rules of Procedure will be respected. I thought, therefore, that this institute is rarely abused so there is no dilemma in it, and I thought that working in this way, asking questions and referring to the answers to questions in three minutes to save time, but you don't want to. Mr. Lagumdžija College has now consulted briefly. We're interpreting the Rules of Procedure. So first we will consider the answers to the questions asked, and then we will ask questions. So there's no dilemma about it. We will respect the Rules of Procedure of this House, but to know that this is all about time and in my court is not rational, but the Rules of Procedure will be respected. We have known colleagues on parliamentary matters. We have Mrs. Seada Palavrić's parliamentary question, the answer to her question. Mrs. Palavrić, are you satisfied with the answer to the question? I'll get you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7795	She didn't go out for a pay phone for two, and for the third, I didn't get an answer 25.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7796	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Đedović. Are you satisfied with the answer to the question? Partly. Thank you. Mr. Tihomi Gligorić. Are you satisfied with the answer to the question? Partly. Thank you. Mr. Mladen Potoćnik, Potočnik, I apologize. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7797	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7798	So he's not happy because he didn't ask that question for himself, he didn't. Okay. Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7799	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the issue has been raised in shape, I have noted, I propose that the Council of Ministers urgently offer a bill proposal, namely a strategy on principles on the privatisation of infrastructure enterprises...the economy to the natural infrastructure wealth of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will, within my three minutes, only mildly comment on what I have received, which means that in response to the decision of Mr Vestendorf, the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who formed the Privatisation Control Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I ask you, is there any commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina to date? So then they are defined on 7-8 legal projects that are based on the privatisation process of both entities, i.e. in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole and ultimately found - the privatisation of infrastructure enterprises of electricity, telecommunications, the gas sector etc. or companies managing economic infrastructure wealth is a very complex issue and their privatisation is carried out through specific privatisation projects approved by entity governments, based on the legitimacy of entities to be in agreement with that state, state-owned legislation. Which means this answer absolutely indicates that it's not simply a respected basic intensity, I'm renewing my question once again. So I'm asking the Council of Ministers to offer an emergency privatisation strategy for the infrastructure enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina what it is are the demands of a part of the union from 26 Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina only works from the field of the electricity system of one and the other entity, etc. etc. So I couldn't agree with this answer. So I repeat once again, I expect the Council of Ministers to offer a privatisation strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's infrastructure enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7800	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, are you satisfied? You're looking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7801	So I've asked more questions and I don't know now which question is whether I'm satisfied with relationships, but here I'm going to limit myself to this last one. My question concerned possibly disputed Bosnia and Herzegovina's border territories with neighbouring countries. The answer I received from the Central Commission for the Identification and Marking of the State Border is, in fact, documents prepared and there is a finding that with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that is, today with Serbia-Montenegro at the level of the state border commission are agreed and there are no issues in question. I am not sure whether it is possible to make a finding, and in this sense I am looking for further clarification, because in the Janje area on the Drina River because of the thoughtmaking or already what natural phenomena are determined land disputed, i.e. citizens who own this land seem to be unable to use it now, because, by some understanding, it belongs to the neighbouring country. It seems, therefore, that there is a part of the disputed territory. This should therefore be clarified in the interests of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7802	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7803	First of all, I would like to conclude that in answer to the question, the Rules of Procedure have been completely injured because the question was asked on the 4.2th, I received the answer on April 1st. Since this arrived on April 1st, when I first read it, I asked to see if it was a true answer, because I thought someone hadn't made a first-april joke, and I asked for some first-time April interviews. What's going on? Please, Mr. Leadership of the Council of Ministers, I don't know if I can see the chairman's absence, the resolution minister isn't here either. 27 I am answered 9 questions, and I am literally told 8 questions — under 8. The following 4 questions you asked the official answer at the session itself are not answered in writing because you asked for an oral answer. And my lips are never answered. So, please, in answer to the question, I was told not to answer it in writing, because I asked for it orally. And they never answered me orally, and to remind you of my question is – if you don't know the answer right away, you can answer some other questions for me, you need to answer them orally. They didn't answer me orally, and it's interesting what questions -- why is the late implementation of the CIPS project? Why can't the public be better informed if the delay was the result of objective circumstances? - Why isn't there a responsibility? And most important question please - Have there been any cases of corruption by domestic and international officials in the CIPS project? Have they been spotted? And if they are what do they do about it? I asked that, and I was told that they wouldn't answer me because they did, because I asked to be answered orally. I've never been answered, the most important question in the CIPS project has not been answered. I was told here that a donation of 3 million marks came from Germany that I knew. Here I also learned that the ID cards in Republika Srpska cost 22 marks, in cantons of 15-32 marks, those old ID cards. Here I learned that 10 marks is the price and that one mark is for a document that is additionally issued and that it's all 13.5, 10+1 that is 13.5 marks. That's all I got here. I received one answer asking the Council of Ministers to be delivered to me again and another to answer the questions I have asked about cases of corruption if there are and who therefore answers and what this is about. I ask that I be in accordance with my member (unclear whether he is a member of 127 or 27.I'd like to be answered again by what you told me that you answered me orally, although you never spoke to me orally or in writing. I really think that this response that you presented to me about the CIPS project that you should have called a Press conference for it and informed the public about this, because the way you've informed the public so far is quite the opposite of what you've answered here. Quite the opposite. Here you answered that everything is great, that everything goes like honey and milk. You answered me that the project was going great and that there were no problems and you told me here that 10 marks and 1 mark is 13.5. That's what you said to me. So, it's a complete mess in all of this. 28 I think it is most lightly unacceptable and ask that the answer to this question be repeated, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7804	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković. Sit down, Mr. Lagumdžija, in your seat, I beg you. Mr. Milorad Živković. You're looking for a comment, aren't you? Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7805	I am partly pleased with the answer to this question, and if you please, I would like to ask the Minister for Transport and Telecommunications - whether, in due course, at the level of all Bosnia and Herzegovina will be at the level of one JIESEM operator or one operator who already has the right and license to mobile phone the same impulse for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In response, you said there was no rummage. But we in Republika Srpska when we use JIESEM from BiH pay at a higher price. Why it is not possible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to place JIESEM on the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina with one operator at a price. I'm asking you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7806	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Paravac. He's not here. Mrs. Sopta. You're looking for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7807	An esteemed presidency, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HDZ Club and the Democrats are not satisfied with the answer because we have responded formally, we have been formally answered to the question, and the essence of the question has run out of answers. Our question was the essence of the question, because the question that was quoted in three sub-questions was what was the position of the tobacco industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to the importers of cigarettes, especially when compared to the regulations in the areas in our neighbouring countries, Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and EU countries. We are only told that these are the effects in the budget of the manufacturer of cigarettes in Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is not in the jurisdiction of this parliament, or that it is not in the jurisdiction of the state, but that it is in the jurisdiction of the entity. 29 We are still looking for an answer to what the fate of the cigarette manufacturer in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, and I think even to this sub-question, we can get a concrete answer, because I think this parliament can get data from entities about what the effects in the budget are and what they would be compared to any of our neighbouring countries. I'd leave again, if I could leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7808	That's the way it's supposed to be. Okay. Thank you very much. Here you go. And these were the comments that among other things here served some to ask new questions, and that's the problem that I thought I'd overcome, but it doesn't matter we'll walk exactly as the letter says in the Rules of Procedure. Let's go now, let's go with the questions now. Mr. Felić asked a question. Mr. Živković also asked a question in writing. It will be delivered to the Council of Ministers and concerns the problem Mr Ćeman spoke of, Felić. Mrs. Palavrić was at the pay phone. Mr. Ćeman has a question. Here you go. Let Mr. Miro Jović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7809	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have one question and one initiative. I'll do it in writing, and I'll do it in writing, but let me make one note. These days the Rules of Procedure Commission shall work, if there are dilemmas concerning these issues, answers, etc. It would be good for the Commission to take this into account when finalising the text of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. I'm having some of this in mind, I think in one segment of my proposals he pointed to this, and I think the Commission will really pay attention to this. As regards the parliamentary issue, it reads: - The existing organisation of the Institute of Standardisation, Measurement and patents according to the applicable regulations, i.e. the applicable law, may continue until December 2003, so this current year until separate standards, measurement and intellectual property are passed and special institutes for these areas should be organised. The end of the scheduled deadline is approaching. My question is also a suggestion to the Council of Ministers: Is it within the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resorship Ministry, to prepare a law on which, as separate administrative organisations, the institutes for standards, the Institute of Measurement, or the Institute of Intellectual Property, would be established? 30 What stage are they at, if the preparations are and when can the draft laws be expected in the parliamentary procedure? A suggestion on this – I believe that the preparation of the text of the law can and should involve experts from the Institute for Standards of Measurement and Intellectual Property, which has been working for 2-3 years at this time. I'm looking for a written answer. The initiative - I submit a written initiative on two issues concerning 1. The publication of regulations, laws and others adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly and other state bodies and the use of languages and letters. I propose that consideration be given to competent authorities and bodies and, depending on the positions taken, takes into account the preparation of laws and other regulations, their publication, or preparation, distribution of so-called. the material for Parliament, etc. The initiative is with an explanation that I'm not reading for these three minutes, I'm re-applying it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7810	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Jović Miro. Have Mr. Duraković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7811	Gentlemen Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues of these days, the Association of Ravna has addressed the public in which you are seeking the protection of your personal rights, the right to property. They state that 21 thousand Hrvat lived in the Brcko District before the war, that two or three thousand of all Hrvat lived and that while on the other sides of Bosnia and Herzegovina they tried to implement Annex No. VII of the Return Treaty, here and what few people they had with the favor of the international community want to show a clear sign that they can't stay there. Since it is a violation of fundamental human rights, the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is silent. That's why I'm obliged to sit and - ask the Ministry of Human Rights to scrutinise to what extent human rights are being violated in Arizona? And get us a report here to this home, not to me. Secondly, I ask this House to form a parliamentary commission to investigate and determine the state of human rights violations in Arizona. The second question of mine concerns an unsettling event that took place here in Sarajevo on March 13th at the time of the war in Iraq. Yes, how can we and the Club support our differences of all such species that are directed against war events in Iraq and anywhere else, but what it has pulled behind it needs to be condemned not only by us, but by the whole, the entire public in Bosnia and Herzegovina and civilised people. 31 So I will read here – I express my indignation by the act of Feđa Štukan and his associates, which is the most offensive figure of the Lord Isus Krist. In Christendom, three persons are Bog, son, and spirit. Another person, Isus Krist, is the supreme deity of Christendom, making a mockery of what is best for Christians. This cannot be an act of love, but it is an act of hatred directly directed against Catholics in this city, for the cathedral of the heart of Jesus is the mother of all churches in the top of the Bosnian Archdiocese. It's not an act against war, but obviously it's a long-planned action that has prepared and carried out boldly. As a highlight of cynicism, I experience the fact that the perpetrator of this disgusting act and the defamation of the mockery of the character of Mr. Isus Krist, and therefore everything that is Catholic and Christian himself reported to the press is proud of his dark invention, and that, at all, domestic and international authorities are reacting to that or even very benevolently, and in a shameful way, the media has shown that mocking of Catholic saints here is almost normal and even takes the artistic line of reference. Mr. Štukan Štukana's artistic expression is nothing new. Vandals between '92. and '95. In various ways, they desecrated religious objects, using artistic expression similar to feđina’s in addition to physical destruction. Isn't this country enough? It's crazy that the anti-war message gives a boost to impatience and expression of hate. One more sentence. I also expect the condemnation of acts by this House of Representatives and all kinds of Bosnian Herzegovina public, and the representatives of the authorities please protect us. A question for the interior minister of the Sarajevo County – what have they done in a specific case according to the vandalism mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7812	Please leave it in writing. Hold on to your time. You're out of time. Mr. Duraković. Have Mr. Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7813	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, I will talk about asking the question of what was being said here, since I was not at the previous sessions, I see from these answers that a similar question was asked by Borislav Paravac, and before that was said by Ruža Sopta. It concerns the problems of the tobacco industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I personally received several letters as an MP from Džene...the industry from Ljubusko via Capljina, Mostar to the tobacco factory Sarajevo, all the way to the Banja Luka factory and this concerns the production of natural processing and finalisation of tobacco products and the total tobacco industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one very important and big question. 32 Unfortunately, the answers we received from the Council of Ministers to these two previous questions show nothing. He's actually avoiding finding any solution. Powers are being transferred from one to another and the fact remains that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country in the world, on the entire planet, I have data that has an absolutely unprotected cigarette market as a high-tariff commodity. Other taxes or excise taxes, customs duties and so on are less for importers than for domestic producers, which is nowhere in Europe and the world again. Third, the question arises why is it tolerated and in whose interest is such fantastically unrealistic competition? Who's behind this? What tobacco lobby or other lobby? And if I didn't count now, I could do it now. Only one indicator, when, for example, a manufacturer from the Republic of Croatia imports into the Federation of BiH pays customs value to the invoice value of 6%, and in 1.1.2004, it will not be 0%. A special sales tax and traffic are the same as for domestic products. And when a producer from the Republic of Croatia pays 6% of the customs duty on imports from the Federation of finished goods, he does not pay the price on scissors, rash etc. etc. Mostly, when you look at data for Serbia, Montenegro, neighbouring country, Croatia, and then European countries, I don't know from Poland, Germany, Austria etc. Turns out that today's total sales of cigarettes in Bosnia and Herzegovina are smoking less than 50% domestically, which is nowhere in Europe right now. These producers, those who plant tobacco, who process tobacco and who produce cigarettes, claim and have very clear plans so that only small changes in customs, especially tax policies can employ at least 50,000 people in this very important branch by protecting domestic products. I am now referring the question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministry, above all I think it is the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, above all, to actually see in the answers, it is said – under the Constitution of Article 3. etc. The authority of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it is said, is said to be outside the authority of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministry. So be it. They are in the jurisdiction of entity ministries, but I guess this ministry has the strength to coordinate work between these ministries. In particular, it has a common interest in both entities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina itself and it is not possible to find a common language that changes in these non-compliances are not possible, I repeat, in Europe and in the world. And that we no longer take out bureaucratic pins, because it will turn out to be deliberately obstructing, and it is easy to calculate – the first state daily loses tens of thousands of marks, tens of thousands, - the second cigarette manufacturers are ahead of bankruptcy, most of them and - third tobacco participants have less and less interest in doing so. So of those 50,000 possible employees, we're going to go into an absolute collapse. So I expect something different to answer, but I don't want it to fit like 33 legal pins, incompetence, etc. and transferring responsibility to other institutions of the system. I apologize so much for the first question and the second one will be very short, although perhaps more important, politically sensitive.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7814	Just for a little while, Mr. Duraković. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7815	Here are two questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7816	Okay. Here you go. Three minutes total. You only know, please. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7817	So far, they wouldn't say that you've been squirming on someone else's code for that minute, but I'll try to telegraph it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7818	We're not at your place either, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7819	I didn't even set it up for the first time.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7820	Let's set it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7821	Yeah. But take it easy for me. It is about something, I appeal to all MPs of this House, especially Republika Srpska's MPs, to finally open a debate on a large political issue that was raised in the previous assembly of this parliament, but never answered and which was so very skillfully put aside. It is a common practice that continues to spread, and that is to change the names of cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the way anyone wants it and mainly with a national prefix. It is a practice that when you enter Bosnia, you no longer enter the Bosnian Ship but rather into the Serbian Ship, when you enter Sarajevo through Serbia's Sarajevo, not Sarajevo, Gorazde through Serbia's Gorazde, not Gorazde, not Shamac, not Šamac, Bosnian Shamac, but Serbia's Shamac, not Bosnia and Herzegovina's Dubica, but Serbia's Novi, but Serbia's Novi, etc. Of course, it's mostly unconstitutional, illegal and illegal. 34 Second, this sanctions the results of ethnic cleansing and continues to tolerate the external practice it has inaugurated primarily Radovan Karadžić and his headquarters. Third, it's a bison of overexplanation, I don't have time, and no need for a crime of urbicide, it's an anti-cultural and anti-civilization practice that's increasingly being outlined. It is denying and suppressing the overall transition between Bosnia and Herzegovina, common life or co-existence and all that is civilized. Finally, Bosnia and Herzegovina, sovereignty and integrity are denied in a very explicit way. So what does it mean, gentlemen, if there is a Serbian Sarajevo, this Sarajevo is not Serbian, as is Bosniak and Croatian, if there are no Serbs, that one 2000 yearly name of a city called Foča is changed, then it is only Serbian and no one else, if the Bosnian Ship is changed, so that ship is neither Croatian, Bosniak and Serbian, but is only Serbian, etc. etc. What it means to tolerate that practice from... the eyes in front of it. Is it really, isn't it the blackest application of the theory of blood and soil and eclocentistic blackest theory, xenophobia, intolerance, national exclusion, etc. This initiative was triggered by a statement in the previous composition, and then it was said to be forwarded to the Constitutional Court, which, unfortunately, has not been established to this day: But I think it deserves us to say the word here, what it means in the political sense, what it means if all the MPs here have sworn that we will defend a sovereign whole and such, equal and similar Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the same time we are rounding up the strict ethnic principle, usurping counterfeiting and all that I'm talking about. This is not, the question is very clear, so I ask that this Parliament be determined about it and that we make a solution and that this practice be annulled as it is today, because it is not acceptable, because it is unconstitutional because it is illegal, because it is illegal, because it is anti-civilising, anti-traditional and anti-cultural and whether it is still necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7822	Okay. May I have your attention, please? Please, Mr. Duraković was at the pay phone for the first time with these questions. So it's me. Please. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7823	I have two questions. First question - Which clubs in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly have working rooms? Why do the Lub HDZ Democrats have no room for work and when will they have them? 35 The second question is – When will the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary House of BiH implement the House of Representatives' conclusion No. 1 of 3 January 2003 number. 01-011-135801?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7824	Okay. Give me that question. Thank you. Mr. Novaković. Have Mr. Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7825	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, my question is: - When will fair compensation be made to Serbs, residents of the village in Glamoc municipality, whose estates were the Arbara Barbara of the Federation's barracks? I asked that question both in the past and in the House of Peoples, and I didn't get an answer. Secondly - Is it in SFOR exercises in the area of ammunition use with impoverished uranium? Namely, in the space of 17 villages of the Municipality of Glamoch SFOR was as well made a polygon of Barbara. 12, 13 and 14. 8. In 1998, as a result of the use of this polygon space, a fire broke out in which all the houses in the village of Prijani burned down about 60 of them with all the auxiliary buildings. The estimate is that the value of one such property is somewhere around 100,000 KM. And today, following SFOR's departure in the area on 25.6.2001, SFOR went away, but again, in December 2002, a board was re-imposed "no access" because of the fact that unexploded grenades and mines remained in the area. Even to this day, this board has not been removed, and in this way the inhabitants of these areas have been prevented from returning to their property, and a fair fee has never been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7826	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. Let Mr. Jahić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7827	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, respected representatives of the government, guests, I have two questions. In fact, I got an answer to the question – where did the Chinese government's tractors go and I got the names they got. However, I'm not the one who would say the man who envied, who got it. I'm interested -- how many of these tractors have shaped the icy or have they performed their function for which they were intended? That's the first question. 36 The second question is very brief, but I will give an explanation. On 20.12.2002, before its state-run transformation into Serbia-Montenegro as a State signatories of the Dayton Agreement, the SRJ ratified this international treaty, which is signatories to both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Question – When will the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina ratify the Dayton Agreement, the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since it is an international contract that after signing international law i.e. The Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts of 1978 and under the State Law, the Law on the conclusion procedure for the execution of international contracts, must be subject to ratification procedure before this Parliament? Let me tell you that I tried to find the official messenger from 1995 on whether this agreement was ratified. Unfortunately, there's no official record of him. That's why I'm asking this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7828	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Jahić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7829	I would like to ask the next parliamentary question – Why has this home not been delivered to the auditor's report on the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the CIPS project made up last year? I therefore ask for this report to be delivered to the MPs of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I ask that the audit findings be made known to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7830	Thank you, Mr. Jahić. Mr. Križanović. Let Mr. Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7831	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, my question is to be very brief. Namely, esteeming the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the few, and perhaps the only country in the world whose anthem, therefore the solemn song has no words, no text, 37, respecting the belief that most citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina want to have their own anthem that will have their own text and be more recognizable. I would like to remind you that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last session has launched an initiative towards the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers therefore implements the appropriate procedure, that our anthem will also receive words in this regard and amend the existing Law on Anthem. So this is how I update this issue and I ask a concrete question to the Council of Ministers – will the Council of Ministers and if they want to launch and implement a procedure that would give our anthem words? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7832	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Andrić, let Mr. Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7833	Gentlemen of the chairman, respected fellow MPs, ministers, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers - What have the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina done to prevent the introduction of Newcastle pneumonia into the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And if they didn't ask to take action in that sense and report on this same home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7834	Thank you, Mr. Andrić. Mr. Lagudmžij. Have Mrs. Soft prepare if she's not finished. Mrs. Softa, you're done with this date earlier, right? You asked a question. Okay. Let Mr. Moranjkić be prepared then. So you're giving up Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Moranjkić. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Have Mr. Avdić prepare himself, if he's not finished. Mr. Avdić, are you finished? Sead Avdić. We're done here. Let me finish. So we have Mr. Moranjkić, Mr. Potočnik. IImaću have one quick question at the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7835	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, MPs, gentlemen of power, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask two questions very briefly. 38 1. It has been noted in the field for a long time that there has been an extraordinary anarchy and a phenomenon of crime in this country that will leave terrible consequences and chaos that can hardly be corrected. Namely, the announced reform in the judiciary and the prosecution also foresees a reduction in the number of judges and prosecutors, which means that many will no longer do this job which is individual, and especially those who are self-aware that they have strayed there was a sign that they begin with the alleged sign of harvest and cashing of their current work, so the same bribe and corruption became the main leader when they judge, sue and judge, and justice and the law is secondary and irrelevant. Pure and clear lawsuits are dismissed as unfounded without evidence, judgments are obtained in their favour by criminals and sinners of the law, or at the very least the process is concisely and planfully delayed in time to make its and possibly excessive judgments in a state that they cannot be realised. I'm looking for an emergency intervention on this matter and an answer written to that. And another question. 2. For days at the premises of Bosnia and Herzegovina, information and disinformation are circulated officially and unofficially, especially if the means of information on cases of weapons found in Mostar, the Eagle affair, intelligence by Republika Srpska's military and certain measures taken by the High Representative where Eždaun has taken his measures to bring Mr. Šarović's resignation. There's more versions, more interpretations. There's a lot of uncertainty among the citizens of this country because they're all upset and they don't know the real truth, because this tall house never answered. I ask – to create complete and clear information about the case of weapons found in Mostar, about the Eagle affair, about a case of espionage by the Republika Srpska Army from which I expect the whole case of actors, goals and intentions and ultimately measures taken on any case. I particularly stress in this case that I referred a part of this question two months ago to this speaker and this is how I express my nod if I never got an answer, which means that certain questions are being ignored, MP questions are being ignored. It's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7836	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Potočnik. Let Mrs Ljilja Milićević prepare herself. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7837	Ladies and gentlemen, my MPs are the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the question is this - What has the Council of Ministers done to ensure the export of products of animal origin to Croatia and Slovenia, thereby ensuring a reduction of the deficit of 11 million marks per day? I will Obrazložić that at this point, there are practically 10,000 workers, unless the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina reacts to this problem threatened to lose its jobs. And if it were to act incentivically on agriculture and processing, a year of 20-30 thousand new jobs could be brought in. This problem is being dragged and not solved for more than half a year, and this is a question of 5 minutes of a legal solution. So much for this question. And as for the questions I also asked the Council of Ministers where I was concerned, the question was: when will the government submit a programme and a work plan for the next four years? I received an inappropriate answer saying that the government is not building a programme and a work plan for 4 years, but simply setting an annual plan for the adoption of certain legal rules. I'll make fun of myself without any weak desire, just like if I set up a director in the company to set up games for the porter, and we'd be interested in what's the essence, which is production, it's the realisation of the plan and the clear plan. Since I see it a little differently than you do, because I come from the economy, not from demagogy, for me, the state is the same as the company, because it solves the life problems of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Parliament represents the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board is the Management Board, and the owners of this country are the residents of this country. That is why I expect or that the Government will give its plan and work programme for the next 4 years or that Parliament will require it from the Government, because leaving the crisis is only possible if the action is carried out and the words are too much. This government and this parliament correspond to its people, and it does not correspond to any other state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7838	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7839	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be brief. My first question is – What can the Council of Ministers, or we can do about staff strengthening and technical equipment of the main office for the review of the joint institutions of BiH? 40 A brief explanation. We had a seminar here, and we expect these people to report for the previous year, and we believe that they are only well staffed and technically equipped to do quality reports and respond to the time, the terms we impose on us, that is, this Parliament. So that would be the first. And the other would be one suggestion, or I can see that we can ask to determine ourselves here. The fact is that in practice very often both in the means of information and here, the name Bosnia and Herzegovina appears as Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's what people think and use insensitively. The right to tell you we are, here I am, specifically coming from that and Herzegovina. The short name is BiH, and it cannot be Bosnia or can only be Herzegovina. I'd really like to suggest to everyone that when I say so, we're all from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7840	Okay. I thank Mrs. Milićević. There are no more reports. And now, if I could ask a quick question, Dama and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would actually like to ask a question about an old thing that is being kept quiet, no activity is being taken. In the last term, the parliament discussed the law on the use of funds that Bosnia and Herzegovina received through the succession of the former Yugoslavia. Among these funds, therefore, things were also gold reserves that Bosnia and Herzegovina received and these gold reserves were sold before the law on the use of funds was adopted in this House. There are very serious analyses that Bosnia and Herzegovina is significantly damaged by the sale of gold reserves before the Law was passed. The finance minister from that period, or vault Mr. Domazet, said that the difference, that gold was sold when the Law came into force and that it could sell somewhere to the harm of Bosnia and Herzegovina about 15 million KM. As of today I think when it compares that damage is even greater, but relevant is that, that price that was on the day of sale and that price that was supposed to be when gold was to be sold after the entry into force of the Law. And my question to the Council of Ministers is, therefore, does the Council of Ministers have any intention of dealing with this issue? And then the proposal to determine exactly if Bosnia and Hercegoivna and how much damage did she suffer? To determine who is responsible and to include in all this the competent state authorities if there is a basis for their action? That's it. Okay. We have concluded the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's 41 Ad. 3. The completion of the vacancy of members of the Bosnian and Herzegovina presidency in the order of the Serbian people As you know, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency of the Serb people have resigned from the post. You received the text of the notice of resignation. May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the Law on Fulfillment of the vacancy of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, members of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please turn off your mobile phones at the session, members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are making a choice to fill the vacancy of members of the Bureau. I will now remind you of the provisions of this law that are relevant to this situation. Article 2 The law says: “In the elections held in accordance with this law, only a member of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina who is of the order of the same constituent people and who has been elected from the territory of the same entity as a member of the Presidency whose seat has been vacant.” The law says: “Any political party represented in the House of Representatives may propose a candidate who meets the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Law. A member of the House of Representatives who has been elected as an independent candidate and who also fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Act may be a candidate for the vacancy of a member of the Presidency."Article 4 says, "If a member of the Presidency elected from Republika Srpska or one member of the Presidency elected from the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, each member shall, therefore, be elected from the same entity as a member of the Presidency whose seat may be vacant only one vote. A candidate who receives the highest number of votes will be appointed. If there is a uniform number of votes, they will be appointed by drawing." Article 6. The law therefore lists those relevant members of the Law on the completion of the vacant seat of a member of the Bureau which is a valid law, so – “After appointment in the House of Representatives, most delegates at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina who belong to the same constituent people as appointed. If the House of Nations twice refuses to confirm the appointment proposed by the House of Representatives in the third round of voting, a member of the Bureau shall be appointed as members of the House of Representatives by majority of the votes of the delegates, no, no. 42 What is relevant is what is in the House of Representatives, here is the error listed in this text of the Jet. So these are ladies and gentlemen of the law governing the election of candidates to fill the vacancy of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Just once again to repeat this provision relating to Article 6, relating to Article 6. – “If the House of People refuses twice the nominations proposed by the House of Representatives on the basis of this article then the third nominated elected by the House of Representatives fills the vacant place without further confirmation by the House of Nations.” So it is relevant in the third round what this House does and it was actually the intervention of the High Representative to the Law that this Parliament previously adopted as a law. You ladies and gentlemen have received proposals from political parties. So far, the SDS for Mr. Borislav Paravac, SPRS for Mr. Tihomir Gligorić and Mr. Petar Kunić's Party of Democratic Progress have highlighted their proposals for the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Đurković Jelina. Here you go. Jelina, good to know. Boro's guilty then, he says.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7841	No, let's first agree that by concentrateing on my name, it's not Jelina, it's Jelina. Try saying it. Okay. Now on behalf of the Democratic Progress Party, I would like to inform you that Professor Kunić has decided to withdraw his candidacy, given the importance of the function and urgency of filling the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, it is estimated that the vote could be put into a stalemate position and therefore put a stop to today's President-in-Office, and we do not want that, and it is not our goal. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7842	I thank Mrs. Jelina. Who else wants to talk? May I have your attention, please? Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7843	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, it is okay to list the members of the law read by the chairman, Mr Džaferović, but it would be good to read Article 8 in which the provisions of the Law are decidently spoken – the provisions of this law, so all of what the chairman has stated, so all 43 provisions, apply to members of the Bureau elected in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission. I ask you, do we have such members of the presidency? Then what do these provisions apply to and to whom? And the question is, why would someone do that, why would they even need this? I think that we have one important function in this way that is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring in one I would say inappropriately in a position that will not strengthen everything we need in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one thing. The other thing I have to say is I'm sorry that Mr. Kunić gave up and that he didn't have the strength to deal with what's called evil. And it's evil if someone calls you and says it's no good to take such a responsible place, because they have places that are assigned to the people who lead us on a given path where it's not good at all. But if this Parliament thinks it is good today, it has a chance to give in to it well. I think it's a shame that 14 people choose a member of the Presidency, that they should be cut short, left behind by those who are able to agree and when reforms should go and when they need to be put to rest and when they should be told to the international community when they should be deceived, etc. We will, of course, help the public with Bosnia and Herzegovina on that path. We called for a democratic dialogue to make the next member of the presidency a man who received 120,000 votes from the voters. It just happens to belong to the party I belong to, that's Mr. Nebojša Radmanović. That didn't get most of it. It has entered a contractual policy that is not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we should keep at least reaching the level of democratic standards. You don't need to take a step back. That's why there's no mood, and gentlemen, we're not going to help, but we're not going to help you. I think that's quite correct. This was a serious time when those who want to lead the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should distinguish something that has support and something that has no support. Something that has an honest and outstretched hand of representatives of the international community. There are, of course, those political options that are just fighting for legality and legitimacy. And I respect that, and I welcome it. But I don't think we're on the right track and we're not doing a good job of the country we live in. If by any chance Mr. Kunić had stayed on the list, he would have had a majority in this parliament of Serb delegates. I have to tell the public that, too. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but it looks like something that's stronger than the night arrangements in this country that have resulted in a billion and a half out of budget channels at all levels, which decide who's going to be what, what the ministry is costing, they're making a decision in a democratic way. Unfortunately, all the clans have mastered democratic flows, which is dangerous for this country. That's the danger I owe as an MP to warn. Every one who gets most according to this law is both legal and legitimate, and Bog help the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7844	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7845	Unfortunately, Mr Špirić reiterated what he said at the beginning, and we are today in a situation where, in fact, this parliament, or those members who have the right to choose the president, can do that part of the job. So here I have two candidates in fact and that is Mr. Paravac and the other is Mr. Gligorić. Unfortunately, when I read the biography, then I must say that in Mr. Paravac's biography, there is one piece of information that he served as president of the IO Doboj from 1990 to 2000. I have to say my personal vision here now, let no one be offended it would have been better if it hadn't been, so today my opinion of Mr. Paravac from the point of view let's say my voice was quite different. Here, a question is asked morally – how long did Mr. Paravac make to keep and wrestling both Bosniaks and Serbs in Doboj from 1990 to 1995, and not that what happened? So I repeat that in these biographies, a biography that says that he was in office when the things that we all condemn today happened, in my deep conviction he doesn't deserve Mr. Paravac to take over this function, or if you agree that this is the reform he advocates. It's up to you Republika Srpska gentlemen to decide these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7846	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7847	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot help but recall a similar moment two years ago when two members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency were elected under the same law in this house. So today we will do so and choose a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Under the law under which this is done, unfortunately the vast majority, so 2/3 of this home will not participate in this act. However, I also remember my fellow Gligorić when I also gave him the right to do well, regardless of what we do not participate in the vote today, that we do not care who will be a member of the Bosnian and Herzegovina presidency of the Serb people, or from the entity of Republika Srpska. For this reason, before the vote, I would like to hear from our candidates what they will stand for as members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Thank you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7848	I thank Mr. Križanović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Kragulj, then Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7849	Gentlemen chairing, respected colleagues, distinguished guests, so how serious this issue is in our best situation shows a vote in an effort to be placed under this item of the agenda of the Proposal, that is, the initiative for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law. The almost uniform vote of 20 MPs supported the initiative says it is indeed one of the most serious issues required and a very serious approach. What we're doing right now is one ad hoc approach more almost done on the phone, etc. and it consists exclusively of a vote, i.e. a choice between 14 people if they participate. Uh, I know it's legal, but it's a big question is it legitimate, is it fair, is it legal, etc. This can be discussed safely and can be asked all kinds of questions. It would be acceptable for me, but I do know that today it is procedurally in the Rules of Procedure that this point, or this choice, is not possible if we have already accepted it, or if we have made it impossible to do otherwise how it must, in principle, be done to delay this for a week, to make one realistic approach. However, I do know that this is procedurally because it is on the third point of the agenda that each point must be completed, only if the possibility of delaying the entire session is found, or under the same number of sessions, within a few days, or within a week. If we do not make it possible today, we will certainly not participate in this election, or we do not consider it, but we will not prevent those who want to provide the majority for the proposed candidates, for the members of the Bureau from jeopardizing it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7850	Thank you. Next, Mr. Jusufović answered the word, followed by Mr. Avdić, and then Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7851	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am in the line of those who are due today to decide who will also be one of those 14 to make a decision or at least to participate in who will be a member of the Serbian people's presidency. I must say, this is a very delicate situation for me. I guess, and I was unhappy a few years ago, and today, especially. I felt that the situation would come, however, if a member of the Bureau or members of the Bureau were elected in a different way as members of the highest state body. 46 This may also be an opportunity to say one sentence about what Mr Belkić as president of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina Club today said that, it seems to me that Mr Jahić said and why you did not say that when he was in the situation that Mr Belkić and Mr Križanović were chosen. I have to answer that we did, that exactly the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina is still in its last term and I have acted as an authorised promoter on behalf of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina in amending the Election Law just insisted on this. I must also note here Mr. Chairman, Mr. Džaferović is also a member of the Constitutional Commission and others, we had a decision at the House of the Peoples of the Constitutional Commission that representatives from the Serb people would be against. I'm glad it happened today that obvious progress has been made in the minds of some people, above all, and a narrow majority has been achieved today. So it hasn't been a decision, but obviously in people's heads, there are some things that need to be changed. And here and now I want to repeat that I feel very unhappy that a member of the Bureau of a member of the Bureau is elected by 14 people. I won't tell you much democratic or anything else. Legally it is because it is so prescribed, but it lacks that other dimension of legitimacy has no. It doesn't exist. The truth isn't just today in this case, but I thought there would be some change, because here it has already happened several times. So you're a party to legality, you can't complain. How to make a decision today? Just now, my colleague Križanović seems to have taken away some of what I want to say. Since the order would be of us 14 we should plead so the answer I gave is how I think we should work. He was supposed to be the second on the list to go, so that would be the right thing to do. But now it's the condition it is. I'm asking you to do us all who don't vote here a colleague that two candidates after the third has given up, to still go out for this pay phone and say some of their programming orientations and lines, and that's why you might decide. If they don't, then me, I'm even in a bigger dilemma, because there's a lot to be respected. So a series of complex factors here affects why you decide. Thirdly, I want to participate actively, not as some in this election, but I want to say more clearly, and I want to take responsibility and I and everyone else not only by doing but also by not doing perhaps some MPs today. Because maybe I'm not doing that one project today, I especially want to say, one project here today is going to get legalization, which is very, very questionable. I want two candidates to come out so that I can identify myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7852	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Avdić. After that, Mr. Novaković. They've been reported. Yeah. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7853	Dama and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, may be asked at first sight or put an artificial question ahead of themselves why these MPs from the Federation are discussing a dominant political issue which is dominant in the sphere of the decision of MPs in the Republika Srpska area. I think that a good atmosphere was created and this environment should really be used to strengthen first of all and develop democratisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this context it is good that this is a common problem and that Bosnia and Herzegovina feels responsible in this act simply for the greatest temptation of this Parliament in 2003, and that is the choice of members of the Presidency for the vacant position of members of the Serbian people's presidency. In this context, it is good that we simply give our opinion less. We need to be aware of one fact. Yet here there are some formal legal contradictions from the aspect of the Election Law, which was adopted in August 2001, which relies on the law that was declared on the provisional basis by the OHR, the High Representative, and this law is based on provisional electoral rules, i.e. the PIC Commission, which means that we objectively have a partial legal vacuum that does not allow us to simply make legal choices and verify a new member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. So I'm warning you about this. So it remains a formal legal and conflict. If we would also simply agree that everything is clean and that there is simply no legal simple vacuum or void, objectively people remain a great truth, and that is the man who has been elected, the candidate who has been elected in this way has no legitimacy to perform that position or to act as members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. It doesn't matter which people it comes from. This cannot be the legitimacy of the party, it cannot be legitimacy, simply parliamentary majority etc. etc. Legimity is achieved simply by a direct secret vote in the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it would be good to consider the idea and the proposal to extend this election over the next 10 days, that candidates offer in written form, not in oral, written form of their programs, which they think they are doing as members of the Bureau. Until then, let's have some further consultations. Well, for smaller questions, we went to the Venice Commission, OHR, etc. So there's no argument for this urgent process of appointing a member of the presidency. I don't think 10 days in this country's history means anything, and we're going to feel the co-consequences of this kind of choice for a long time, we can feel a possible choice. Which means I plead simply to the end that we are seriously politically considering the act simply and that urgency cannot be an sufficient argument that these formal legal contradictions should be removed or at least clarified in front of this parliament in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I plead that candidates and if we go to the vote of bids in written form of their programmes and what they mean to do as members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. No oral exposure. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7854	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, Miloš Jovanović. Replica, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7855	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell Mr. Avdić that he did not speak this way when Mr. Križanović, his party colleague from the former party, was elected. So it doesn't make sense, Mr. Avdić, that you're giving us lectures here now, and that's not how you said when they were your representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7856	Replication response. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7857	There's no reason. I am my colleague Jovanović to respond to the meeting of the House of Representatives in the election of two new members of the presidency. My opinion was then, so these people have mutilated legitimacy and that they will not be able to perform their functions and positions in full color and capacity. And then there was a second situation, because we didn't, we didn't have an election law that we declared in August of 2001. Which means that members of the Bureau were elected objectively under legal law, which was declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative. You have to understand that. So we have declared the electoral law, that is, adopted in August 2001, and it has only been valid since the October 2002 elections. I love you. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7858	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7859	We didn't have any election law. So we couldn't choose new members of the presidency under the election law. The new members of the presidency could only comply with a law temporarily declared by the High Representative. It's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7860	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Do not hold the discussion Jovanović-Avdić-Avdić from the post and from the pay phone. He's got a bit of a turn. It's all gonna be a turn. Mr. Novaković. Let Mr. Andrić prepare himself. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7861	Dear colleagues, I will say only a few words very briefly. It is obvious that one part of this Parliament is making every effort to make this act of selecting a member of the presidency as demeaning as possible. I have to say, some may have the right, some obviously don't. I also learned here that earlier elected members of the Bureau had a corrupt legitimacy and that this one would now have no legitimacy. So some of them are a little defiled, some of them don't have it at all. Once again, depending on the position. We've heard big words here, a few MPs. Of course, with convictions, so much for some other reasons. I dare say that they are solely in the function of protecting small acts of these people. I don't want this act here in any way, so in any way I neither exaggerate nor belittle, but I want it to be in a real context and to be clearly said that it is in accordance with the law. Because it is in accordance with the law. Whether it's a good law or not, it's a whole other question. It's a question that can be discussed here in the procedure of amending the Law when we amend the Election Law. And it's not disputed to argue with him then. But it's not right to disrespect... because by law, it's how bad that law was. And here are some words that, again, I say don't fit this act. I don't want to spoil it, but I can't help but remind Mr. Bešlagić of his post in the period he cited here and in the parliamentary response to the parliamentary question that I have and which says that in the Tuzla canton, 14,280 requests were filed for a refund, which means somewhere around let's say 50,000 citizens, because it requires a family, and so far it's been returned 9,942 Srbin' return. But I don't want to talk about it, and I really don't want to say that some people have the right here to say everything they said today, but that some people need to think before they come out and say what they said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7862	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. The answer to the wrong quote, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7863	The real allegation is that Selim Bešlagić was the head of the municipality and that in Tuzla as Tuzla I acted when Mr Paravac was not 50,000 Serbian nationalities in Tuzla I speak. So 50,000 people in the Tuzla canton might, but then it wasn't my jurisdiction. And another thing to say only to the gentleman that this is not about my appointment, is that it is about the appointment of a member of the Serbian people's presidency that I have expressed myself with my personal position. So don't let anyone get human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7864	Thank you. Mr. Andrić. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7865	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, I didn't think to report today because I believe it is primarily the right of the Serb people's envoys to elect a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina from which the Serbian people will represent as defined by the Constitution. However, here today I hear a few here on several occasions behind the pay phone mentions that it was in 2000 as it is today in 2003. And it seems to me that the loudest ones in 2000 were the members of the presidency at the time, and I'm just going to say how they did it. Unlike today's situation, we had a member of the Croatian Presidency who was removed. He didn't resign. Today we have a situation where a man resigned. It was then chosen by those who are the loudest here today. They chose a man who had no more than 2% in the order of the Croatian people. Today, the same ones are telling you about legitimacy. Where's the principle? Next, chosen in an illegal manner, because it was confirmed in the House of Peoples, which was built by the illegal House of the Federation. At that time, we all kept silent and closed our eyes before the treading of 95% of the express will of the Croatian people. We have elected an envoy, or member of the predsjednštvo from the order of the Croatian people. I today want to respect the will of legally and legitimately elected representatives of the Serbian people and I hope that today will not happen again in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7866	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7867	Here, for two years, he has been trying simply to promote the thesis that in the last meeting, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples functioned illegally, the radio and selected two members of the Presidency. Namely, there's only one fact to point out, they're not representatives of the people here, they're representatives of the citizens, and this is the House of Representatives. This is the House of Representatives, which means in this context, if the situation occurred as in the previous session that a party who has objectively won simply 70, 80, 90% of the trust of the Croatian people, not to be the government and that is possible in a multinational multinational state. So to identify with simple electoral engineering or illegal work of one and the other at home, I don't think it's really too much or is simply based on objective simple legitimacy and what's been going on over the past two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7868	Just a little bit, please. Wait a minute. Please, please. Wait a minute. Take it easy. Take it easy. 51 If we continue this way, then we will have answers to the answers, to the answers, to the corrections of the false allegations. I mean, I'm asking you, so let's take a little bit of an example. Mr. Raguž therefore reacts now to Mr. Avdić's allegations. After that, Mr. Beriz Belkić has a discussion. They're registered debaters. Mr. Jahić and Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7869	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say for a moment, so it's true that this is a representative home and that it represents the will of the citizens. And we also know that Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions are maintaining it, in addition to that dimension of representing citizens and the will of the people. And that's why it exists, and the House of Peoples that confirms therefore the choice not only, the choice is not just through the House of Representatives. So it's facts and facts. And not only can one dimension be taken institutionally, but the electoral process must be observed in fullness and parallelly taken care of the legality, but also the legitimacy. This ensures Mr. Avdić the House of Peoples, and that is why under the Constitution there is and you cannot deny the fact that in the House of Nations the situation took place two years ago. This will remain permanently recorded in the experience of both the Parliamentary Assembly and the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7870	Mr. Belkić has given up. Mr. Jahić, you will come on behalf of the Club after Mr. Živković. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7871	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7872	Mr. Zorić, first of all, you don't need to speak from the scene. You'll get a chance. Please listen to me, so you'll get your word. You raised your hand and expressed your desire to go out for a pay phone. I figured it out by wanting you to sign up for the discussion. If you'd said, please, Zorić, that you said it was a false allegation, you got the opportunity and you have the possibility. Here you go. You have to react to the wrong assumption. It's your turn now. It's an indisputable thing. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7873	I'm not gonna ask for a break, I'm on behalf of the HDZ Club, the Democrats, looking for a 30-minute break. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7874	Please, nice. Please sit down. We're having this discussion, have a seat. What's wrong with this world? Branka, do I have to take a break? We'll continue at 14 o'clock. Time out for business by 14 o'clock. We're going to continue our work. The president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Vinko Zorić, requested a break. If he wants to address Parliament after a break, it's common. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7875	I asked for a break or a break, I only said why I was looking for her right now. I'm not behind this pay phone. There's no reason here to state any position, it seemed to me, and I was persuaded by my colleagues from the SDA, not the chairman of the other vice-president, Mr. Raguž, that it wasn't done, but that's how it was done to me. This is the second time. Once there was a replica, this time it was an incorrect quote. I apologize if I misjudged this one from the scene, if I said something and I shouldn't have. I think it was necessary to take a break like this in order for us at the club to discuss that and I'm convinced now that there was no intention whatsoever. What I wanted to correct incorrectly, Mr Avdić, mostly said by my colleague Martin Raguž and I would only remind Mr Avdić that in the federal home of the people of 14 people, 5 representatives of the House of the People of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although for Mr Avdić the 14th majority of 30, then I accept that they were doing the right thing in the past term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7876	Okay. I thank Mr. Zorić. We're moving on with our work. I have two other debaters, Mr Elmir Jahić and Mr Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7877	I'd just like to look back on some of the criticisms that have been addressed to this procedure, more specifically the Electoral Law and some bad solutions. I agree that there are a number of bad solutions and I generally support all these criticisms referred to in the Electoral Law that treat this matter. However, it seems to me that, unfortunately, I am convinced that we are going over one essential provision that has been incorporated into the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was subsequently transposed into Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, which is again contrary to the 53rd Decision on the constitutionality and equality of the people in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, the biggest problem for me is that from the Federation area, if we are going to choose only Bošnjak and Hrvat members from the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and only a Srbin from Republika Srpska. So, basic human rights have been compromised in Republika Srpska and Hrvat, so to be elected as members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, while the same case is also the same for a Serbian national citizen in the area of Republika Srpska. A similar principle is that it is a similar principle for choosing the House of Peoples of this Parliament where only citizens from Republika Srpska are elected by the Serbian House of Peoples. So Srbin from the Federation can't be in the House of Peoples, and Bošnjak and Hrvat cannot be in the Republika Srpska area. In my view, this is the fundamental problem of the Electoral Law, and these are some of the suggestions that we have heard and the examples in each case stand, and that is why I will return to the beginning of my discussion – this electoral law, especially in this section, needs urgent changes. First of all, it is to comply with the decision on the constitutionality and equality of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7878	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7879	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to take the floor with the fact that the president of the club on behalf of the SNSD Club, Mr Špirić, said in his recognizable manner the SNSD's views, but several speakers said incorrect allegations. In particular, Mr. Novaković said that he believes this is now a solemn act when we declare here, or vote the presidency member in front of the Serb people, or in front of Republika Srpska. As it was not a solemn act, it was a sad act in Republika Srpska when Mr. Šarović was removed from the presidency, a member of the presidency. There was also no flag on a half-paint in Republika Srpska. So I believe that this is also not a solemn act, because if it were a solemn act I would expect to have champagne here, that there are representatives of the international community, or the High Representative, that there are two other members of the Presidency here, because they are probably interested and interested in who will be a member of the presidency from Republika Srpska. I think this is just one of the agenda points, a very important item of the agenda. And you will allow the debate to take place. We don't just have to come here and vote on her. And I don't think there's enough to be said that the devastating consequences of Republika Srpska's election of a member of the presidency in front of the SDS will be. When Mr. Šarović was replaced, the Military Committee also disappeared. 54 Why now the OHR and the international community have not implemented the same procedure they are conducting to elect any lower officials in the municipality, canton, etc. Is it waiting again for this House to now vote its member of the Presidency and then start looking for what this member of the Bureau has done in the last period? Are we going to have another three months' session? Will we have a shortage of institutions in Republika Srpska again? And that's why I think SNSD like he said is sorry that the PDP candidate quit. We think that was a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7880	Thank you. That would be everyone who's reported it by now. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to a statement in accordance with Article 8.4 of the Election Law and the provisions of the Law on Completion. I'm sorry, one moment only, so I asked if anyone wanted to talk more?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7881	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7882	My call is valid and the candidates are MPs. My call applies to all MPs here in Parliament and when I asked if there was anyone else to speak, of course I meant MPs who are also candidates. And if you want Mr. Gligorić to address the pay phone, you have a word. Here you go. There's no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7883	Mr. Chairman, vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers and others present, I am pleased that Mr. Chairman has made it possible for me to speak, because I really appreciate that there has been a misunderstanding, thinking that it is quite normal and logical that candidates have the opportunity to say something about their programme, about ways to make them work in the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, I would like to say that the Socialist Party's initiative and candidacy was intended to offer an alternative to this Parliament in terms of building a civil society where a civil party could help. This was the reason why I also accepted that candidacy with the desire to try the presidency as an important collective body to try to resolve all the open issues that 55 objectively we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have, and we constantly ignore that they are present and thus do not meet the conditions for entry into Euro-Atlantic integration. I had my own way of thinking in this programme that I thought meant to present to you MPs here in the House of Representatives with a desire to share all of the thoughts that this is a new political path in terms of how the Presidency should work, what ambience should be created in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how to solve these issues, and that the international community is watching all this and that we practically take it into our own hands. I appreciate there's no need to talk about that program. Maybe it'll wait some other time, maybe some people wouldn't want to hear me and get it right. But I wanted to talk in a way that can primarily help Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, I wanted to speak boldly about Serbian politics. I was just trying to help Serbian politics try to step forward and lead a new policy in this transition process. I meant to talk about it a little bit more, but I give it up with the goal of Serbian politics learning lessons from its work so far, which was often a sign of a missed policy. But esteeming that a deal has already been reached, as Professor Špirić says in nightclubs and in some other way, it is obvious that the agreement has been reached here and I am withdrawing it means my candidacy because I would not want to be a democratic decor after I have heard all of you MPs who spoke in the debate. Of course, this should not be seen as an act in which I want to criticize those who have agreed on their own interests. And I wouldn't be talking about those interests exactly because today I'm like a few sentences ago when I said candidate, actually disabled to talk about this much more and wider. So it was kind of my accident or my weakness that I was running for office, and I couldn't objectively say it, and believe me, I would have had a thing to say. I remain, meaning to point out in these selected words the problem hanging in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am sorry that the time that is coming can indeed be shown or come true to the evil hunch that it will not go exactly in the direction of reform. Because of the opposition's proposal to accept perhaps my suggestion just so that there would be no democratic meaning of that decor and abused for democratic purposes. We do not practically attend to this act, those who have agreed because they have already been said to have the legality in accordance with the law, I appreciate and respect it, but the legitimacy certainly does not. Thank you. Don't take this as an insult. I really didn't expect this function in terms of proposing, because it was quite expected that the axis of SDS PDP and SDA would find a quality solution, thus taking responsibility for the time that would come, and I'm telling you that we're going to have to face ourselves again, and that's something that this program that I wanted to offer should be overcome. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7884	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7885	Here I am truly going to be short. Why am I still reporting before the vote? I want to explain briefly what I am doing, as I said, in a situation that needs to be voted. It means that dá your vote for one of the members of the Bureau. With three candidates at the outset, only one candidate is now left. When I asked for the programme, then at least I thought in a situation like this that it was necessary for all of the candidates, now there was only one candidate, Mr Paravac, to come out briefly and to say in some particulars that he sees Bosnia and Herzegovina's future path with a view to being a member, here it is now almost and visible to the highest state authority. That's one reason. And the second reason is that I belong to the Foreigner of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this one belongs to the Foreigners of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The candidate for the presidency, Mr Paravac, belongs to the SDS. Obviously, the two programmes are very different and almost conflicted between the two parties. For these reasons, I have sought, although I have known Mr Paravac personally for years, because we were together two mandates in the Republika Srpska Parliament, but for these reasons I felt that it made it easier for me to vote that at least a few sentences say that he sees the way of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that he will perform and represent himself in the Presidency. Especially because there have been a lot of objections, including questions from some MPs about the continuity of Mr Paravac's work that I absolutely don't want to talk about here. I just want to, I wanted him to look back briefly to help me decide. This is how I feel because he didn't do it that he ignored me as an MP to decide, so I'm going to define it accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7886	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Who else wants to talk? Does anyone want to talk? Then I'm finalizing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Before declaring it in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.4 of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law and the corresponding provisions of Article 4. The law on filling the vacancy of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency will now join the procedure by telling MPs from Republika Srpska here the provision – each member of the House of Representatives elected from the same entity as a member of the Presidency whose seat is vacant can only give one vote. 57 So, I will now ask the MPs of the Republika Srpska entity, since the candidates Mr. Kunić and Gligorić gave up the candidacy that only one candidate is Mr. Borislav Paravac, so who is he, so I will ask the question who is so that Mr. Borislav Paravac is appointed by this home as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency? I also find that nine MPs are present at the meeting of the Republika Srpska entity of 14 MPs, five MPs left the session after SNSD Club representative and Mr Gligorić spoke to the speaker. And I am now asking MPs from the Republika Srpska entity who is therefore and who is therefore voting that Mr. Borislav Paravac should be appointed as a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the order of the Serb people? Who's in? Is the procedure going forward? That's where it stops. That's where it stops, right? Okay. So here's the deal. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is by procedure prescribed by Article 8.4 of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Article 4. The law on filling the vacancy of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency by voting out of the 9 MPs present from Republika Srpska's Entities 7 MPs for Mr Paravac appointed Mr Borislav Paravac as member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this decision will be forwarded to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for confirmation. I, please, have consulted with the Service, here every MP gives the vote “for” so it says here. So I've got a professional consult and I didn't just happen to do this. So I find the House of Representatives, I find that the House of Representatives, please, is a little attention. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made this decision in the way I have explained it and in this way we have completed the third item of the agenda. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. Mr. Novaković mourns the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7887	I would like to ask for a 10 minute break, which I would like to use, of course, to congratulate the appointed member of the Presidency and myself and all of us to congratulate him on his appointment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7888	I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. We continue at exactly 20 to 3. 58 /PAUZA 10 MINUTES/ We move to the fourth point of the agenda, that is. May I have your attention, please? The fourth item of the agenda is Ad. 4. A report on the fulfilment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitments as members of the Council of Europe Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the House of Representatives' College has decided that, periodically, this topic as well as the topic relating to meeting the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the EU Stabilisation and Association process puts the agenda of this House on the agenda so that we can make an inventory of what it is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has fulfilled as a post-accession commitment, and what it has not met, who is the authority that has not done its part of the job and who is therefore responsible. This is therefore the intention and aim of the College when it proposed this item of the agenda and, of course, when it was initiated and the session concerning the EU Plenary session that will be held tomorrow exclusively on the subject. You have previously received certain materials that have treated the fulfilment of our obligations following the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. When we convened these sessions, we gave you a list of commitments that Bosnia and Herzegovina accepted based on reception. It would be very good for the Council of Ministers to now address this home and give us a brief analysis of what Bosnia and Herzegovina had as a post-war commitment, what was fulfilled, what was not fulfilled. The deadlines are broken and what we do next. This topic will be said on the agenda at the House of Representatives, and also in the House of Peoples I believe the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Word has a deputy foreign minister, the foreign minister is absent today, located outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, so Deputy Foreign Minister Lidija Topić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7889	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for inviting me to report today on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the fulfilment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitments as members of the Council of Europe. With Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the Council of Europe almost a year ago, so in Strasbourg on 24 April 2002, Bosnia and Herzegovina accepted a series of post-accession commitments, which should be met by precise time limits, based on the opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Bosnia and 59 Herzegovina's commitments are also a specific letter on the adoption of post-accession commitments addressed to the Council of Europe. Fulfillment of post-prepared commitments is monitored and monitored by the country's monitoring team for the democratic stability of the Council of Europe. It is common for the mortuary team to analyse the fulfilment of post-admission commitments every three months and to provide reports on compliance with the obligations and on the course of the cooperation programme to all the Directors-General of the Council of Europe. To date, this monitoring team of the Council of Europe has twice visited Bosnia and Herzegovina. After our first visit, we received the first quarterly report on the implementation of the post-accession cooperation programme. This report states that Bosnia and Herzegovina has done a lot during the first quarter period, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made significant progress towards meeting the post-accession commitments, that at all levels their implementation has continued in accordance with the Council of Europe standards and that there is a strong desire in Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet the obligations put before it by the Council of Europe as a full member. The report highlights priorities such as strengthening the rule of law, strengthening mechanisms for human rights, judicial reform, refugee returns and displaced persons, fighting organised crime, corruption and terrorism. A second visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina's monitoring team came between February 3rd and 8th 2003. A number of meetings with representatives of relevant institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina were held on this occasion. In its report, whose delivery is expected these days, the delegation expressed satisfaction with organising general elections and starting reforms. It highlights the satisfaction of progress in judicial reform such as the formation of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the activities leading to the merger of the House of Human Rights with the Constitutional Court, the entry into force of legislation from the criminal area, as well as the rate of return of property, refugees and displaced persons, and the process of reforming education. So with her letter, Bosnia and Herzegovina accepted a list of 71 commitments. So far, 15 has been fully fulfilled. These 15 are, therefore, - the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights has been ratified, - the protocols of this Convention No. 1st, 4th, 6th and 11th, - the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees and the Protocol on the Status of Refugees and Sucession, - the European Convention against Tortress and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Penalty and its Protocols, - the European Charter on Physical Self-Government, - the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Entity, - the Law on Criminal Procedures, - the Law on State Service, - the National Service Act on Qualifications of the High Education of the Region of Europe, - the Law on the Industrials of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on Internal Affairs of both entities, 60 - the UNESK Convention on Qualifications of the High Education of the Region of Europe, - are adopted laws which it imposed, the silent High Representatives of Bosnia and Bosnia and Bosnia-Her Republic of Slovenia. So this is a list of obligations that are fully fulfilled. The other group are the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to meet continuously, which are -- implementing the Dayton Agreement -- co-operation with the International Court of The Hague -- establishing an independent judiciary -- co-operation with the Venice Commission, -- reforming education, -- creating conditions for sustainable return, return of refugees and displaced persons, -- continuing to check the harmonisation of legislation in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, - implementing amendments to the BiH Constitution, - respecting the decisions of the House for Human Rights, - combating corruption and crime, - reconstructing military forces, - strengthening cooperation between armies, - strengthening freedom of the media, - co-operation with human rights institutions and fully implementing property laws. And the third group of our obligations are exactly the ones that have not yet been met. First of all, we only have two obligations that we have failed to fulfil, and for which we have had the first year of our reception. So the deadline for the next two commitments is 24.4. of this year, and the first of these two commitments is today item 18 on the agenda, so we can even expect that with the end of today's session we will only have one unfulfilled obligation. So the first of two is - Protocols 12 and 13. The European Convention on Human Rights, which we therefore hope will be forwarded to further proceedings today. And the second obligation is the General Agreement on Immunities and Privileges and their Protocols. The Council of Ministers also adopted the agreement, the draft agreement, and we have sent a draft of this agreement to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency and the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency should these days be determined by the signatories of the agreement. We expect it to be the ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Strasbourg, Mr Igor Gaun, so we would really expect that within a year we will meet all the obligations we had in the first year. 61 further. Four obligations will be the same as priority. These are: - Amendments to the Election Law which are therefore in the parliamentary procedure and 3 laws for which the deadline is two years after our entry into the Council of Europe, but we still consider them priority, which are - the Law on movement and residence of foreigners and asylum, - the Law on recognition of public documents and - the Law on primary and secondary education. We still have 15 other obligations that are also in the process. I will read what these are obligations and what ministries or institutions are in charge of them. These are - the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, - the European Convention on Criminal Crimes of Informatics, Again Civil Affairs, - the Konvecija on the Council of Europe on Extradition, Civil Affairs, - the Social Charter of the Council of Europe, the European Charter of Human Rights, - the European Charter on Minority and Regional Languages, the Ministry of Human Rights, - the European Convention on the Process on Criminal Matters, Civil Affairs, - the European Convention on Compensation and Victims of Crimes and Violence, Civil Affairs, - the European Convention on Cross-border Cooperation and its Protocols, Civil Affairs, - the Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, also civil Affairs, - the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, the Investigation, Plending and Confineration of Crimes, the Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, - the Council of the Council, the Convention of the Council of the European Union for the SecurityAffairs , the Publicity of PublicAffairs , theEuropeans , the Publicity of theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , the Europeans of theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , the Europeans of theEuropeans , the Europeans of theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , the Europeans and theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropeans , theEuropean We accepted this convention at the Council of Ministers and also referred the Presidency to further procedures. - Law on objecting to conscience and alternative trial of the military deadline, again the Ministry of Civil Affairs and - the unification of the Constitutional Court and the House of Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice. The foreign ministry will continue to monitor and report monthly to the Foreign Policy Committee of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament on meeting its commitments, and this has therefore been an inventory of our commitments to the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7890	I would like to thank Mrs. Topić for this brief and clear report of the state of fulfillment of our post-opportunity obligations. 62 I am opening a debate on this report and on this topic at all. Who wants to talk? Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7891	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, allow me to say that I have read this material about these obligations and here, as we have seen here almost all obligations are touched by ministries, very little is touched by entities and entity I would say institution. And what I have seen as a member of this Parliament and a member of certain committees is that very often, very often, we face something that slows down our work, and in this sense I would just like to make one proposal to this committee, or a proposal to the Assembly, which is that to achieve the effectiveness of this body, it is precisely the adoption of all these laws and obligations. Often it comes to putting into me saying contrary to the basic law on human rights, and that means where both work and social policy and health and education are, it means equating the criteria for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the view that certain entities are in charge of each of these areas. So when we get to that part, then we usually start to argue in such a way that it's an entity task, not a state. These challenges themselves and the speed and efficiency of the work of certain ministries. Not contesting that the Dayton Agreement has areas that belong to entity meanings of governments, however, the Dayton Agreement in Article 3 fifth Decidence says that certain powers can be transferred from entity to state institutions and I suggest that, in that sense, the Council of Ministers with the governments of entities, and I also think that Mr Gligorić has repeatedly repeated the sitting and agreed on what levels I would say... would need to be transferred to the state level, to the state level, and therefore to shorten the procedure for discussion on committees and whether it is ethnically or it is a state-run new. That is why we would achieve this means that if agreed, if here in this House it is said that governments and entity governments have agreed on what powers are transferred to the state level. The efficiency of the work through the adoption of the law, through the adoption of certain rules were far greater and therefore this Parliament through its commission could make all these decisions much and significantly faster. I am saying this for a simple reason that we have a lot of laws to pass if we want to join the Council of Europe and under the terms of the Partnership for Peace, as well as in the end, it is our desire to enter the Council of Europe, and I think it would be a single contribution that we MPs do not constantly face whether it is an entity or a state level, and that is what we would achieve, I would say and overcome a latent conflict, I would say MP from Republika Srpska, from the Federation. Is it in the interest, not in the interest of the people. I mean, this is just a proposal with this material that seems to me like it's just serious that we have to do our job as quickly and efficiently as possible. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7892	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Đedović Ibrahim. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7893	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'll just take a few sentences. They're more technical, but I think they're talking a lot about our organizational functioning. In the prepared material there is a lot of uncertainty about the commitments undertaken, there are dates that are completely exceeded. It has as business carrier, let's say the BiH Ministry of European Integration should do it, it doesn't exist, and now it doesn't count. So the material is not adapted to our current state, not even the composition of the Council of Ministers. That's why I'd like to ask you to pay attention to two things. So the materials are delivered to us in a completely up-to-date, completely up-to-date, secondly to match our current organisational structure and third with as many deadlines and obstacles as possible in our domain that we remove them by our vote to speed up these processes. Here I have had so much in short.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7894	I thank Mr. Đedović. Who else wants to talk? Here you go. Ivo, Miro Jović. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7895	Thank you, Mr. President. We have one page of the conclusions from the 7th session of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Final consideration says it should be by 24.4. Bosnia and Herzegovina adopt and implement the following laws. And attitude three, there's a school law between these laws. In some materials it stands for the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is nothing further, and in this material that we have obtained stands – the Law on Schools and in the brackets of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the small letter of entities. I'm saying it can't stand like this. We should respect the constitutional decree and respect at least us here in the Constitution. Then it should stand if it already lists what these laws will apply to, respecting constitutional solutions, the Law on Schools of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Entity of the capital letter, because it refers to an entity, because education is at the level of Republika Srpska and adds the county, because that is how it was resolved in the Federation. So if we're counting, then that's the Bosnia and Herzegovina Schools Act, the Entities of Great Letters and Countys, and if not, then maybe the Law on Schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina is enough. Thank you. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7896	Thank you. The next one answered the word Mr. Ćeman, followed by Mr. Muratović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7897	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues are likely to expect something broader and more meaningful discussion on this very important issue regarding Bosnia and Herzegovina as we speak today, when we talk about what is the obligation in the time after the accession to the Council of Europe, and tomorrow when we will talk about another strong European to tell an organisation which also Bosnia and Herzegovina is seeking and we hope that we will meet the conditions as soon as possible, not only here for the Council of Europe, but also for the European Union. I actually went out to say two three remarks. In addition to what we have already heard, what is a matter of technical character, it is clear that we, of what is foreseen as our obligation, have much more to do. It is also clear that this home, i.e. the state authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has a lot of work to do on the plan. Of course, something concerns both entity bodies and, in accordance with what the powers of the competent authorities are, will need to be done by everyone in their jurisdiction as necessary. Because politically we were all absolutely at the stand and before being admitted to the Council of Europe, we were to carry out the act to get Bosnia and Herzegovina into the family of countries that are participating in the Council of Europe. The content of this proposal is therefore. I've been paying attention to two things. One is that the European Convention on Crimes of Informatics should be adopted within three years. So it occurred to me that by self-inflicted in some neighbouring countries and others, they've already passed e-business laws, I think that's what they might call it. Different laws are called. So business at all, and, of course, there's a need to pass laws. Here we commit ourselves, or accept conventions that need to prevent possible crime in the field of information, and here is business done through media such as information media, etc. etc. I wanted to point out one thing, of course someone would say it's also a matter of jurisdiction between the state and the entity. I have not seen it stand in these obligations, and I know that it can be asked whether or not it should be, but Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a law on bond relations. There is no single law on bond relations or, as law students and lawyers say briefly, bonds. Please, nice. We are asked with the right when we talk about integration into the Council of Europe and when we talk about integration into the EU that we seek to bring our legislation into line with therefore these institutions and these associations, and as far as I know at this time and in professional, not just political circles, we are thinking that the law on bonds should be passed at the level of entities. I couldn't resist saying this in this area because it's actually one entirely if you want both professional and political, and I don't know what other national logic that we need today to be doing inventory and inventory of what we need to bring into line with the Council of Europe, or the EU, and we are here feeding processes 65 that are such an important area as the area of bonding relations we should maybe even regulate differently within entities. Maybe someone will say, and I end up saying this isn't about this topic. I think deeply that it is and I want it to be within this, and of course I support all of these activities to do their part of the work as soon as possible and this parliamentary assembly, so in this context and this issue below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7898	Thank you. Mr. Muratović. Have Mr. Raguž prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7899	Honorable chairman, respected MPs, I want those who don't know that there are three monitoring groups who monitor the fulfillment of our post-region obligations and who submit to those whom they have called reports. We, our delegation representing us at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have so far contacted two monitoring groups. It is a monitoring group of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and monitoring groups of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe. I've also drawn certain conclusions from our delegation's previous contacts with them that I would like to make here very briefly. First, there are a considerable number of obligations that we can make very simple and very quickly, regardless of the deadline defined in this plan. I think it's just our organization that we'll do it in one record time and that when each of these monitoring groups comes, we can bring it out to them and we can get rid of those obligations, or part of those obligations. Since there are three monitoring committees in European institutions, I think we should have at least one. So I propose first that we form a parliamentary group that will monitor the implementation of these obligations and the leaders of that group. I also propose that Parliament be delivered very clearly by both the Council of Ministers and the two entity governments of the group, i.e. the people responsible there. I and my colleagues at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have learned one thing I want to transfer here from the work of this Parliament. For each item to be considered in Parliament, the rapporteur shall be appointed to the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the reporter and he shall keep an eye on and gather groups and monitor what experts should do, etc. As long as that task is not completed and he is before the Assembly a rapporteur when it is put on the agenda. He is, of course, also a reporter at club representatives, party clubs, etc. Or someone on his team. 66 So I propose first that we have our own rapporteur who will keep track of it, and also that in executive power we have three men who we all know by name and by name who leads there those groups that follow and accelerate, who push the implementation of these obligations. Second. I suggest that we conclude from here that before each monitoring group comes, we have prepared written material for each of our obligations. That could be three sentences. Do it, do this, don't do this. The problems are these, where we came from, etc. This is very important because it could serve as a text to this rapporteur in the authority in the Council of Europe that set him up, because surely, we expect in the first quarter of next year the rapporteur to submit a report on how we carry out our obligations. It's not important here we just executed, we didn't execute. Executed within the deadline. Because he's not coming to watch just that. He's watching as far as we've arrived with every activity and he describes exactly where we've arrived and with those activities that, for which the deadline of April next year is. So we need to be active in it. Third. From one of these reporters we have heard such a sentence – you have entered the Council of Europe with many unfulfilled conditions. As a reporter, I felt that you were needed, and that's how I interpreted it better if you were with unfulfilled obligations inside, so that we could all press it to do it, rather than to be inside and wait for when you'd end up. But I'm telling you, we're going to be very strict right now, and we're going to be very, very, very true to say, properly reporting to the Assembly as long as you're here. I think it's very important that he told us and that's how we have to figure it out. And a fourth. We are distracted by these rapporteurs that we must be more active in the Council of Europe. We're not active there. We just have this delegation going to meetings for the time being and only five elected members. I propose to this parliamentary assembly today to conclude that we are more involved, i.e. as other countries are involved in the work of the authorities, in particular the committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, and I want the College of the Assembly to have an understanding on this conclusion. And I, as the leader of our delegation, would like all the deputies to be included in your conclusion and to attend committee meetings, or committees to which they belong. It's the only way we're gonna show that we're doing our job. It is not just our obligation to be a member and to carry out our post-accession obligations, etc., but to participate in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and of all its bodies, as all other countries participate. So to be active there to represent our country, although we do not represent the country there, we are MPs, independent, but that is always meant for everyone to dull the interests and opinions of their parliaments there. So I propose that one of the conclusions is that we commit ourselves, elected members and deputies to participate actively in the committees in which we have applied there, i.e. to participate in all bodies of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much. Excuse me. Two laws, especially in all the talks, insist on the Law on Elections and the Law on Education. I ask you to send from here very clear 67 messages to those of whom it depends on the ministries and those who create these laws and who need to put them in the process so that as soon as possible we finish that obligation. It's happening all over the place. We are expected to pass those two laws by summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7900	I thank Mr. Muratović. Mr. Raguž Martin. After that, Mr. Belkić Beriz.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I will say a few things on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission of this House which initiated the first public debate together with the Foreign Ministry 20 days ago on this subject and as a result of this debate in preparing this session, you have received in writing a proposal for the conclusion of this committee as a possible outcome of this debate today in the sense that these are the conclusions of this House. Before that, I would say that I support this opening statement, which was given here on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by Deputy Minister Mrs. Topić, then what Mr. Muratović is as head of delegation, or our representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and what Mr. Đedović also considers to be one package of constructive proposals and conclusions that can, in addition to these conclusions offered by the Commission, result in a truly one-quality approach of this House on this issue that we need here as we heard from the chairman, as we have decided to deal with continuously in my opinion at least once a month. But I'd like to say something extra. They weren't, I just want to say, there haven't been two reports so far. There have been three reports, and I have to say that each of these reports basically carries one positive line. So there is no generally negative approach in terms of the assessment that has been done in Bosnia and Herzegovina since it was admitted to the Council of Europe. So I'm talking about one general court. Other judgments and assessments related to the possibility that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will meet these obligations in due time and quality. And that is one serious question for us and from this assembly of this Parliament and from all institutions will be expected, as the last report says, which is not yet I would have said formally, but very likely we will soon have it here all on occasion to see that in these four years we show that we are able in deadlines to pass laws for which we have made a commitment. And not only laws, but to adapt conventions and apply in practice according to this one post-op kit that we adopted. And I think it's a fundamental task of this House. In this latest report, in particular, the role of the High Representative is analysed in this legislative sense. His performance on a political committee in Strasbourg that he had recently and where he publicly told the most significant committee that he wanted to reduce his bona fide powers and transfer the 68 maximum matter to institutions. And here we must show that we are able to accept such a political approach. If we are not, of course, then we can expect decisions and laws within these deadlines to be declared by the High Representative, and how much will that be, to question the credibility of this House of the Institute, there is no need to speak at all. So I'd like to make this commitment on my own within the deadlines that we're set to deliver, to enforce these obligations as the first. Another thing I am obliged to say on behalf of the Commission, and we will have the debate tomorrow, that means a judgment in which the level of compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations is in the process of stabilising and joining the EU. It is clear that it is formally two separate things of the Council of Europe and the European Union, but it is also clear in all these reports that this is for us, that this is for us the front door of a post-ready commitment and that if we are to make this a quality absorption, we have a realistic chance of passing this process of stabilisation and accession through quality. And let us all work together to show that we are able to show both responsibility and responsibility. What I also mean to say is that this process of stabilisation and association, which will rely on this part in many ways, will pave the way for financial and other opportunities that will be available in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this forward road and road through that purgatory, that is, through this process of stabilisation and accession. It implies you know how many laws, how many harmonisations, legislation and a number of other things that are here today I believe by forming a Commission for European Integration we are just beginning. I also think that here today we should clearly say the Commission has focused deadlines here, so we have 24.4. of this year at our disposal to implement an amendment to the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I propose today, I don't know what the Council of Ministers has done in this matter, the Election Commission, but in any case we need a comprehensive insight into the necessary changes in electoral legislation, and I think it should be a nod of conclusions that this Parliament is getting one possible proposal from the Council of Ministers very quickly within this time period to be able to discuss quality, because here we see that there are individual initiatives by MPs. We had one today, one of Mr. Moranjkić's associates in the House of Peoples in the Federation. There are also a number of other issues that are objectively needed as a whole as Parliament to discuss and show that we can adopt as we have adopted the Election Law and amending the electoral legislation that will set us in the circle of these European countries. So a very important thing. The second thing, here is today, with the consent of these conventions, the protocols of the Convention on Human Rights, we end this one-year part of our obligations, but also here we have recorded all other conventions and obligations and laws that, within two years, we have a year to adopt for them. And what I think should be made clear today is a letter on the acceptance of post-accession commitments said that the Foreign Ministry will monitor and report on behalf of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on how and what dynamics 69 of these commitments are realised. I have to say, there's room for a better functioning ministry. I think the Council of Ministers and the public and this Parliament report more timely. And what I would finally say is that on this road that awaits us, I think there should be a much greater coordination between the legislative and executive and the judicial authorities, because in this latest report the focus is placed on judicial reform than on the unification of the House of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court, the Ombudcmen institutions and a series of others, their independent and independent, independent financing and stable funding. So in this one significant way, we have a quality and clear coordination in which we will be able to see which instance, the institution fulfils its obligations. And I think that, I'm glad that tomorrow, if television hasn't passed on this part of the debate at home today, the public will be involved and will have the possibility of direct insight into these important issues. I want to stress the importance of the role of the media, because without one of the more quality roles of the media in creating a critical, critical public change that can support all of this, I think this process will be harder to lead. That's why I think it's up to us to make sure that the media in this process contributes, of course, to the principles of independence and functioning. What I can say is, I am using this opportunity to, on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, not to waste time on the second date, clearly express my commitment and commitment to implementing these conditions and the importance of this issue. And it will certainly be on behalf of our party, or the HDZ coalition, the demo-Christians focused in a way that our coalition contributes to being in this Parliament, and also at another level of this obligation, quality met, and also the way towards European integration, because we know that it will not be easy or simple, or fast, we are clear, but we are also convinced that we will be able to make Bosnia and Herzegovina self-sustainable on this path in a way that both the peoples and the citizens in it will feel European in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7902	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mr. Belkić answered his word. Let Mrs Ljiljana Milićević prepare herself. I'd like to ask Mr. Paravac to continue to hold the session for 10 minutes just as much as possible. After that, Mr. Lagumdžija. I've got to get something on the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7903	Dear fellow MPs, I will be very brief on two or three aspects that I think are very important. So in conditions where we are practically today a kind of inventory based on the documents that we received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other reports we bring down to one kind of our obligations, I think it would be significant next. That, in addition to understanding that every serious state should carry out what it has promised, this in some way determines its seriousness and its reputation, other than the objectives that 70 of which we obviously have here, at least I think so political concept that European integration is something that is not controversial for all the political parties that are partying here, I think it was important to point out another kind of motive, or another kind of benefits by doing these things today. That this is a benefit to the state at all, that it is a benefit to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of how close we are in the procedural sense or not from the point of view of inventory plus minus, but simply to build in this way a self-sustainable community, or one orderly state that will draw closer to European standards of functioning. Furthermore, I think it is very important that we manage the process in an organised, clear, transparent way, to manage the process. I'm afraid we don't go into reorganization, I'm afraid not all the data flows in one place, that autonomously and simultaneously lead individually to certain activities don't meet each other. So that's what you should pay attention to. I also think it would be very important to stress the need for stronger co-operation with the European Community mission, i.e. the Council of Europe here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore we must have a genuine relationship with these obligations. So we're willing to realize them. So if we meet a formal legal obstacle, a constitutional obstacle to using the mechanisms that exist in this country. This is where we talk about the arrangement, etc. There is therefore a concept of coordination, a constitutional category organised by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House as far as I know, Mr. President, over a month and a half ago, has asked the Presidency to open a non-permanent process of coordination with entity authorities for the necessary clarifications and possible transfer of things to legal projects. Furthermore, it's very difficult to discuss rather than enter into tomorrow's topic, so I'd like to limit myself to this. When I spoke about reorganization, I do not know if this initiative by Mr Muratović is in any way compatible with this initiative by this Commission on European Integration. Maybe we could put in some more things at one cost. I don't know what Mr. Muratović's idea was, so in the body that we're organizing today, maybe this aspect of moratoring can be installed. That's it. Thank you. In any case, the Members of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina will ultimately, this is our programme goal and support all the activities that bring us closer to European integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7904	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7905	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I want as a member of this delegation in the Parliament of the Council of Europe to say one thing that may not have been outdated like this, and that is, we are MPs there, but it is also a respected Bosnia and Herzegovina and it has won the post of Vice-President of the Council of Europe, and that place has 71 belonged to Mr Muratović as head of our delegation and I think this is an opportunity to congratulate Mr Muratović here and to take this knowledge. It means we've been respected and we've got one valid place that's pretty much there. That's the first one. So we congratulate Mr. Muratović on that function. I would like to say that this work on the Council of Europe and the obligations that we have made, it is my understanding that this is our basis for all future integration processes and what we are seeking and we should observe it that way. Accents that are just the important things to focus on there right now are so that we meet the obligations we've taken and are greatly potential for this National Minority Protection Act. We were also in January and now again called. It's gotta be brought in. It also drew attention to the Agreement on Immunities and Privileges and those Protocols. So with school, that's what matters. And what I'm saying is that it's a distraction, and they have a very important social committee that works very hard on the social charter, and that we should, that's the social charter of the Council of Europe. What's this about? I say here the monitoring coordination fulfilled obligations and so on. I don't think good results are a problem to look at, add up, and if they don't work, then you can't wait for the result. I mean, it's just hard to see him when he's gone. It's about knowing exactly what obligations we've taken, at which levels are not required. Who are the bearers of activity on this issue and therefore what is needed is a cross-section that may be necessary in this House to work every three months, so see where we have left off, where we are, what else do we have to do. So let's do it, and every three months we do a cut and it's always identifying where this particular law stands, what it's about, where it's stopped, whether it's in one entity, in the other or it's up to Parliament, to the Council of Ministers. And that we have this practice to do every three months in the next three months, that's short, every three months. That's short. We have what we need to do. We've got deadlines. Here half of these provisions are related to 2004, 2005. We don't have to wait for the deadline. We'd better make them timely. Maybe this year. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7906	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Lagumdžija Zlatko has his word. Has anyone else checked in in in the meantime? Mr. Križanović Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7907	Gentlemen chairman, I am naturally joining my colleague and I am glad that my colleague has turned our attention to all of us, it could have been in the opening remarks, this was a good opportunity to say that my colleague Muratović has been elected Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I congratulate him in that sense, for it is surely a recognition for all of us, even for those who sit here for both Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. 72 This sign, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, has certainly given a sign that we need to see and read in the right way. That's another extended loan we got. In fact, let me remind you, as Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have been admitted to the Council of Europe in a certain way to credit. We do. Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament has provided guarantees, political guarantees that it will repay the loan properly. To remind you of these guarantees we have given unanimously as Parliament in the last meeting and there has been absolutely no dilemma, no matter what levels the government is working on, both Parliament and both entities and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the leaders of the executive government, no matter how colourfully they were composed of any political structures, they have all unanimously accepted and solemnly signed to give a guarantee, a political guarantee that our being admitted to the Council of Europe that these 71 conditions that we now have here to say to which we are reminded again, that we do not have to do this 71 conditions so that we can be accepted, but we will be accepted because we are believed to go the way we promised. In fact, we have been trusted and are still believed, and I believe that this very gesture which means the choice of Mr Muratović is actually nothing more than trust in these authorities that this country is ready and that the people of this country are going on an unreversible path towards European statehood. In this very light, I would like to make my humble contribution to the failure of the people who did this to us, who gave it to us, because I'm afraid with all due respect to what we've heard we're a little bit out of credit. I know we talked about the towers here in breaks, we know we're serious people know what this is about. It's already mentioned here, two key laws that are very often mentioned. One is the Electoral Law which and how it should go through various parliamentary and political procedures to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, because it is perfectly clear that our electoral law and even some parts of our wider legal framework are not fully aligned with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. So that's one thing we need to focus on. The other is the Law on Education, because all the good behind which political and other contradictions are carried by what my esteemed colleague Avdić would say is wearing one to say a radical cut in the entire education system. So, we can't say by this time of year that the day is two weeks until the adoption of the Education Act in entities, in small or large letters and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I agree with all those who scored those two laws. I also think it's very important that we remind ourselves here once again that people are watching us through what they're taking, and that's one of our continuing obligations, that's co-operation with the war crimes court in The Hague. I will not say anything further about this in order not to open an unnecessary debate and we do not have the need to lead it, but I am afraid that once again today, the Parliamentary Assembly would be good enough to give my message of consistency to say so that this part will be carried out continuously in an appropriate manner. I also think there's one segment that we can do a lot here, and it costs a little bit. And this is the part of the post-accession obligations that speaks of the adoption of imposed laws by the competent parliamentary authorities, so unless we agree with 73 of these solutions, we can immediately change them at the same session. I'm going to give you an example just so I don't think about it as an illustration of it. Look, there's one of the laws that we owe, which we're about to be imposed on us, it's the Communication Act that the High Representative passed, and we haven't passed that communication law here yet, so we can't change it analogly. I'm afraid, say, you should also take it now that you connect it to what we got today. Mrs. Palavrić asked a question that floats in public about this GSM operator and received an answer. And she's probably happy with the answer. If the law had been adopted and the appropriate parliamentary procedure had possibly passed, it would have been less controversial, because in the response we received, it said that the CRA had notified, conducted an international tender for the assessment of the licence and that the assessment of the remuneration for the GSM licence had been completed and delivered to the Ministry on 31 April 2003. Look, so we got an answer saying that it was all over and that we got it 31 well you heard me, April 31st this year. So this says we got it in four weeks. Please. I don't know, but you know it's too big a thing to accept such mistakes. I cite it as an example that this telecommunications law, it's a printing mistake, is it? I'm afraid that these printing mistakes will cost us very expensive and that these printing mistakes can make this country poorer by hundreds of millions needlessly. What is the most broken trust between us and this little we have can be further broken if we continue with printing errors and failure to notice. But let's let it go now. I would suggest because of all the things I've been saying here to see again what the laws of the High Representative are. Is there anything controversial here about these laws? To say here if anyone thinks any of these laws are controversial so let's say we don't. An example works. If there's nothing to sign up for now, let's see what it's all about, if we don't put all these laws in the next session right now and adopt them. I don't see any reason. My suggestion is because of all this, Mr. Chairman, I suggest one conclusion. In fact, I appreciate what my colleague Raguž said in the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I think they're pretty good as one starting base. However, I must admit that they've confused me a little bit like all these materials I've got. It says here that Bosnia and Herzegovina has 71 post-election obligations we heard from distinguished counterpart Topić. That it was fulfilled 14 things we also heard, that 21 were not fulfilled and 19 obligations were continued. The truth is, we've heard one in an indication that if we end this thing today, there'll be only one left. But good. And when we adopt it now, it turns out 14 plus 21 plus 19 is equal to 54, and it says here there are 71. I can't tell my colleague Jovanović something here is a press mistake. Only then, here is a bit more difficult problem logical nature what is a printing error. Because it's not a problem here if it's April 1st or April 31st. Please. You think printing error is 71. Possibly, possibly. I believe that 17 conditions for the Council of Europe are within the scope of a printing error. I have no doubt there are such people. However, I would therefore suggest that this sort of thing be clarified here before we adopt them and that we do not now explain it here in all the old materials that have happened, so I suggest that the conclusion 74 - that we take to the knowledge of this information and all this that has been given here, and that we put the Council of Ministers in charge to prepare, I would ask that here is the formulation I have, to prepare an operational programme or an operational plan for the fulfilment of post-preparation obligations and to offer it to Parliament by 24.4. Look, since this is all there is to it, it's no problem at all. This is a technical matter. The papers only make a printing mistake and we have it. So, since 24.3. is some symbolic deadline, it would be good if we as Parliament had a session in the next 15 days as a continuation of this item of the agenda in which the Council of Ministers would give us an operational programme or an operational plan of fulfillment and to give continuity, this one at this level of 3 years. I think that this is a perfectly correct plane and that then the second conclusion goes -- that every 3 months Parliament has information about monitoring the implementation of this operational plan. So that, as a colleague Raguž stands here every month to inform us, we don't have much to inform ourselves. I think it's a good thing that when we set this up, every three months. But we have to measure against something and then we have one option: an operational program without printing errors to measure it by. And in order not to go any further, if you accept this in principle, then I'd give up cutting off printing errors, because it doesn't lead to anything, and that's not my goal. My goal is to get the credit back, though, because I think there's a reason to keep it safe.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7908	Thank you. Mr. Križanović Jozo answered the question. Another reported and then we will ask the President of the Commission for Foreign Policy, Mr Raguž, that, since the Commission is in charge of monitoring today's debate by the College to offer us a cut of these discussions through possible conclusions. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7909	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since much has been said, I will concentrate on only two three proposals or remarks so as not to repeat myself. First of all, I would like to remind you that Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitments following its entry into the Council of Europe have been signed on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chaired by the Council of Ministers and the College of both the Houses of the Assembly. So these obligations were taken on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina and when we talk today about meeting these obligations, I can fully agree with colleagues who said that we should do so very seriously for two reasons. One reason is that it is in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as counterpart Beriz says, and another because we want to be one serious country that fulfils its commitments. 75 I would also like to start by assuming that this parliament is represented by political parties that have had their electoral programmes a prominent reform course and the commitment that Bosnia and Herzegovina is heading towards European integration. So starting with this politically demonstrated will, if that's the case, we only have one problem left here – how do we manage that let's tell the project? Professor Muratović talked about it a little more, and I can really support a lot of these proposals that Professor Muratović made here. However, the issue of reorganizing with us is being raised. I do not see any reason why we should form a particular moritoring group in our Parliament if we are already forming a joint committee of both homes today that will have the task of monitoring the European integration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore absolutely support those proposals that have been on track for our European Integration Commission to be our rapporteur in some continuous regular terms. Is that a month, two or three I'll leave it to you to make a deal. But to find ways to coordinate, how to talk, how to monitor the work of competent ministries and other institutions that are involved in these obligations. I think that with such a continuity of monitoring the execution, we will be able to meet the problems in that execution by putting an emphasis on making amendments to the Election Law as quickly as possible, because it is evident that we will not be able to meet this requirement until 24.4. of this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7910	I thank Mr. Križanović. If no one's answering again. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7911	Thank you. Dear Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, I will only briefly remind you that we have been joining the Council of Europe for years and that some countries may be suspended and suspended from the Council of Europe based on experience. I am sorry to begin the discussion like this, but more perhaps we should understand the seriousness of the situation and the obligations which Bosnia and Herzegovina has made before one of the European institutions and which we must meet urgently in order not to experience this very second destiny. We have in our own way entered the loan as mentioned by colleague Lagumdžija and I think we should meet these credit conditions as soon as possible, regardless of these deadlines. And I just want to remind you that this does not end the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are our credit obligations. And they're just beginning to commit to what we really ratify through a number of conventions, to adopt a number of legal acts, etc. We implement, or Europeanise Bosnia and Herzegovina in one way. 76 I will, in a number of suggestions that I am joining today in order to promote and engage and meet, speed up and meet the commitments that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made, remind you that in May of this month in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, a session of the political committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and that it would be good, and I think that somewhere around these sessions, it can expect a new monitoring of the Council of Europe and that we should have some jobs by then. In addition to all these ratifications and these agreements that we have, I think the Law on Schooling, that is, education should be under the emergency as many weeks as next week on the agenda of this Parliament. I will just remind you that the reform of education was on the agenda of the Peace Implementation Council in Brussels, that the draft law was prepared, that it was under consideration at one of the first Council of Ministers meeting as a part of the agenda, but it was an unauthorized proposing, since activities co-ordinated earlier by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and in the meantime it passed in the jurisdiction of civil affairs and there is no reason why this law stands in the Council of Ministers anymore, i.e. not to be adopted under urgent and parliamentary assembly. The reason why I am saying this is because as a member of the Committee for Education, Science and Culture in Strasbourg, I attended the first session where a report on education in Bosnia and Herzegovina was held with such disastrous qualifications on our education and with a call, that is, by calling on the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt the law urgently. Understandable by the Committee that the law is in parliamentary procedure, but has not yet been adopted. I therefore urge the Council of Ministers to indeed deliver this law to this Parliament as soon as possible and to adopt it as soon as possible by the chairman, i.e. colleagues and fellow Members. Furthermore, I just want to mention that, there was a way of working here. Those who have previously, and probably in this room, made them a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe better know, the Council of Europe is composed, i.e. working on the principle of political committees, i.e. political groups and working bodies, or working committees. A five-member delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and appointed deputies cover two committees and you will admit njutn is guilty we cannot all be at the same time so several working bodies. I urge that as many parliamentarians, therefore, as well as deputies, be involved in the engagement of both political groups and working bodies, given that in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a number of animations are a number of issues and problems, namely the points of the agenda, which will be and how important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's fate. The colleagues and colleagues of the Council of Europe know that our neighbouring countries, especially Croatia, have made very good use of the last two years for accession and other European integrations, i.e. for the status in which they have come in particular lately. So the key step was just the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I thank the chairman. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7912	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. I don't have any more logs for this agenda item. If no one ever answers their word again, right? He's not answering. We're closing the debate. We have agreed in preparation for this item of the agenda at the Enlarged College that the Committee on Foreign Policy of our Parliament is also monitoring the opening exhibition, of course and the discussions that will take place today during the session and then, after the debate has been held, to try to propose to Parliament the conclusions on this item of the agenda. Before I ask Mr Raguž to read you the proposal of the conclusion, I will repeat on my part one thing that is most important to me, and that is that Parliament in continuity, therefore periodically, will see what the period will be. I think that the deadline proposed here, which refers to a three-month period, is good, optimally constantly monitoring the state of compliance that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made with its accession to the Council of Europe. And therefore this thing will no longer be released from Parliament's hands until these conditions are met. This is the one today, I'd say a global debate. The following debates or future discussions I understand primarily as discussions in which the conclusions will be identified and called out by those who do not meet their obligations and, of course, how appropriate measures will be taken against them. That's actually the goal of this agenda point. That will be between the other target and tomorrow's Plenary Session. Thank you very much. I ask Mr. Martin Raguž, President of the Foreign Policy Commission to read you a possible proposal for conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7913	Thank you. Here is the final consideration given by Mr Džaferović and by what you have received from the Commission in writing, and by following the debate that I believe was both content and quality and what I think is particularly necessary for these conclusions to be apostrophyd, I do not see that there have been any party approaches here, but it is obvious that the issue of meeting these obligations is perceived as a top priority and does not bring it into close contact with party policy. And I think it's an approach that can guarantee the fulfillment of these obligations. What I think should be said is that there have been no more serious objections to this proposal for conclusions, nor has there been a report filed by Mrs Topić, deputy minister. So I believe that these conclusions that have been proposed and the report that has been submitted can be accepted with those which I, which have appeared in the debate here, will be cited as the addition of these conclusions and one new whole which I think will be of new quality and in relation to the conclusions that have been proposed, with the conclusion that this part of the collection which is very skillful as usual by Mr Lagumdžija's representative should be specified, and I think that this refers to the commitment that is under way and which could not have been precisely taken into account in terms of 78 numbers. But he didn't question the rest of this report and the proposals either, so I hope we understand that. Firstly, the first proposal, with the adoption of these conclusions in addition to addition, would therefore be that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the practice that exists in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, tasks our delegation to the Council of Europe to monitor parliamentaryly on behalf of Parliament the monitoring of the implementation of these conclusions. Not to form a new body, but to accept, in accordance with the deadline of 3 months, a report together with, on behalf of Parliament, together with the reports to be submitted by the Council of Ministers, which was one of the proposals which the Commission also accepted, and based on the plan that the Council of Ministers should offer by the end here, that is 24.3. Can we take this conclusion? Maybe we'll come to a more logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7914	No, don't count all of it, Martina.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7915	So that's one conclusion. Another conclusion would be that our parliament, this House also sent a letter to the entity parliaments that, within the obligations that the entity parliament also has in a legislative sense, an attempt to make in this way one plan, dynamics based on their obligations to both entity governments and parliaments in terms of harmonising legislation with conventions, the adoption of laws and a number of other obligations that also apply not only to BiH institutions, but also to entities. So that's a second conclusion. The third is to focus our priorities here in the legislative sense, and these are primarily the Electoral Law and to bring it into line with the standards of the Convention on Human Rights, as well as a number of other open issues concerning electoral legislation. And that law runs within one year. I have to tell you that the school law is two years old. But we can accept that we are now seriously dealing with him and that the Council of Ministers comes out with a proposal that, I say, deadlines are not the same for the Electoral Law and for this law. But of course he's top priority. Furthermore, what I think we can accept as a proposal is that this plan is being considered in continuity by the Council of Ministers and at least every three months. So it's a very precise law, a conclusion. What I think, too, is that in particular, I think that all possible misunderstandings should be removed on behalf of the Council of Ministers to monitor the implementation of these obligations, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is in a letter addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the acceptance of the commitments that BiH has accepted, and it is clear that the European Integration Directorate will need this part, which we will open tomorrow, related to the stabilisation and accession process and relations with the European Union in relation to Parliament and the other institutions, to be directly serviced by it. Also, this conclusion that the proposal to address institutions is in line with the new Law on Ministries and Obligations in this plan given by Mr Đedović, I think we should be realised in the plan that we will receive in 15 days. There have been other conclusions, which deserve, in any case and deserve to be found in this sense, I think that all the proposals that the MPs have made are absolutely useful, but I'm pointing out that we are now going to go to this plan of operations that we will have within 15 days to put the Council in charge and that within that plan, eventually, based on the debate that was led, we are going one step further into detailing our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7916	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Here's the idea of a conclusion. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Does anyone want to talk about it? If no one is answering, then I think the Foreign Policy Commission has been well summed up by what was the result, which was a wider debate. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who it is to accept these conclusions. Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you. Do you mind? Are there any others who can handle it? I find myself reporting 39 votes for, without votes against and without abstentions to adopt these conclusions. We, ladies and gentlemen, are moving on to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Commission's work report on the status of naturalised persons in the period from 06/04'92. until the entry into force of the BiH Constitution As you know at the 8th session of the House Report on the Commission's work on examining the status of naturalised persons in the period 0d 06.04.1992, until the entry into force of the BiH Constitution did not receive an entity majority. A coordination procedure has been carried out in the Commission of the College, and you have received a report. You have seen that the College has not reached agreement, so according to the Rules of Procedure, we need to continue the procedure, or we need to carry out a second round of voting. I'm asking the House as a whole who's for this report? Did you count the votes? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. Is there a general majority? If it's not there, I can't go any further. We can go to an entity statement. 80 I ask MPs from the Federation of BiH who is against this report? Thank you. I ask the MPs of the RS who is against this report? Thank you. I'm publishing the results of the total vote. 39 MPs present. The vote was 21 – against 11 – abstention 6. So there is general parliamentary support. The Federation doesn't mind and there's support. RS 11 is against it. It is, therefore, more than two-thirds, two-thirds against, so I realize that this report was not adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the draft law amending the law on transmission, regulator and operator of the electricity system, the law did not receive an entity majority in reading the proposal for this law in its first reading. There is no agreement in the College Commission either. Please hold the vote in the second round. Who is it for this law to ask Parliament? Did you count the votes? Thank you. Who's against the law? Abstained? Thank you. Is there any general support? Who is from the Federation of BiH against this law? Thank you. I ask from the RS who is against this law? Thank you. Let me publish the results. So, like this, 40 MPs were present 23 voted in favour – 11 voted against – there were 5 abstentions. So the law has general support. From the Federation, it was 11 against, it's less than two-thirds. The RS didn't mind. I find that the law was passed in the first reading at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. Proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum – second reading We adopted the bill in the last session in the first reading. After the procedure was carried out by the College Commission, because it did not have an entity majority in the first reading debate. It is, therefore, a debate on the draft law in the second reading. You have received a report from the competent commission containing four amendments adopted by the competent commission. At this stage, we have amendments by MPs Momčilo Novaković and Mirsad Ćeman who have tabled an invitation to Article 94(a). The rules of procedure of this house. The college has respected these amendments. So he respected the possibility of submitting amendments. They should be made known to the House, in accordance with the conclusion of the previous session, that amendments should be allowed within 15 days of the first reading of the first reading on all draft laws which have been discussed in the previous meeting, for the reasons that the present MPs have not actively participated in the commission phase. I'm opening a debate on 81 of this law in the second reading. Who wants to talk? A representative of the Ministry of Security, Mektić Dragan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7917	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners and Asylum has been in the process for some 11 months now. I must say that it is of paramount importance for BiH to pass such a law, especially in the face of now watching the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. However, in order for me not to bother you with this law, there is a problem here, if I may say so, of a technical nature. The law, I say, has been in the process for 11 months, and as a legislator of this law, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees appeared. Meanwhile, there has been a transformation of the Council of Ministers, based on a new law on the Council of Ministers, where a new Ministry of Security has been established and where Article 14. The law on ministries of affairs and tasks of control and movement of foreigners and asylum is exclusive to the responsibility of the Ministry of Security. Therefore, in this law in the proposal of this law, there is a series, let me put it this way, uncertainty or now errors and formal-legal formulations, so now it would be necessary to find a way to fix this. I must say that in one of this structure of security institutions in BiH, which is now what it is, we would, by adopting this law into this whole security, say, also involve infrastructure as an institution of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, so that it would be competent and this law would appear as mandatory for the affairs of movement control and residence of parties and asylum at one of the highest levels, and at all levels below, entity interior ministries, cantonal interior ministries, cantonal ministries and public security centres at the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia would appear. I think it's illogical, and it's essentially a practice everywhere that the control of the movement, the stay of foreigners and asylum is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security. I hope that you understand what the problem is and that it is necessary to fix it for formal and legal reasons and, if possible, that this law, or its statement, is now delayed for one of the next sessions, and we would remove these errors or these misunderstandings and bring them into line with these ministry laws, where real jurisdiction regarding movements and controls, movements and the stays of the parties within this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7918	I thank the Deputy Minister. Who else wants to talk? This is the position of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Mektić. Okay. We have a proposal to simply postpone the statement on this law and, of course, on the basis of a statement issued by the Deputy Minister of Security at the Council of Ministers of BiH today to inform the Council of Ministers and to further see what they will do and how they will do when it comes to this proposal. Therefore, this is the only possible conclusion, and I suggest this conclusion that today we postpone the statement on this subject, on the subject of this law, to inform the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers will see what the Council of Ministers will do about the repairs, the possible correction of the harmonisation, related to this law. It wouldn't be good to tear down this law today, because as far as I can tell by the amendments, it's an opportunity for that fate of purpose, and I want to say it in public. It would be good, since it is one of the post-opportunity obligations, it is strictly stated, to make an effort to preserve the current level of activity related to the adoption of this law, and yes, to allow the Council of Ministers to discuss issues raised by the deputy minister and try to bring it into line with the ministry law. That would be my suggestion. Mr. Novaković answered first and then Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7919	I reported more because of the clarification of the very conclusion proposed by the chairman. Namely, the notion that we are delaying a statement on the law, does it mean if the Council of Ministers amends the text of the law to the procedure of possible new amendments. It's a matter of law. So, if it's just a retreat, it's about withdrawing the law here as far as I'm concerned, and that's why it takes clarification. If it's about the withdrawal of the law, then some other text of the law goes into the procedure and then the procedure is repeated, or we're just postponing the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7920	I heard you, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7921	Nothing, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7922	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7923	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to use that formula that I used for this speaker today for what we're talking about, and then I'm going to say, of course, when it comes to this law. At this point, business opportunities should be carefully assessed for such a proposal as was given on behalf of the Council of Ministers here and I have nothing in principle against it, because in truth there is, when it comes to regulatory law in the field of administration, so to speak, at this point a great confusion. That's why I'm saying I'm gonna start with this, and that confusion is, of course, not honoring the lawyers, but it's not going to be an honor to this entire environment where lawyers work. In fact, at one initial stage, I was present when it came to the proposal for a Council of Ministers bill. We know what kind of law was passed and what its solutions were. It is then pointed out that some solutions in the Council of Ministers Act do not correspond with the Governance Act, which provides certain frameworks as a general law, etc. Afterwards, in the Law on 83 ministries, we found that some of these solutions in the law did not correspond either with the Law on Administration or with the Council of Ministers Act. We now have a lexcialist who actually completes the confusion, which, of course, is not, again I say simply a responsible job because we are obliged to pass laws that will be consistent in the legal system, conditions, etc. on the other hand, laws which will not contradict each other, etc. Why did I say this? I said that I should actually say to you here that we have a hard job in which we all participate together in the intention to settle things as quickly as possible and because of the demands that we have heard about the previous point here from the Council of Europe and other European institutions, and we all agreed that we should do so as soon as possible. So, if there is, and I've invested certain amendments here, of course in co-operation with the resolution ministries, I'd say, the ministry and, obviously, step behind them. If there's a business possibility, I'm here to put it off if I can. I'm not sure that's quite so, but if not, then I'll be ready even, and there's here competent in that direction to speak one thought of a proposal that might, perhaps, be some sort of reconciliation of this approach, which is. That we, however, pass the law today, but to assess whether we can pass it, therefore, so that we do not enter into this risk that the law does not go through, to define ourselves for these amendments, and that, in principle of resolution, I hope that there will be no confusion, resolution of the issue of conflict of jurisdiction within the competent authority, eventually, this problem will be resolved in walking, and that the law will come into effect and, if we need to change it tomorrow, and that the problem of jurisdiction is solved, in exactly one practical way by resolving the conflict of jurisdiction in this case of a positive conflict of jurisdiction, the lawyers know what it means through the decision of the competent authority, because in the truth in Article 12. The law on ministries says that the Ministry of Human Rights, and this law, too, is like a lexicalist, we foresee for that service certain responsibilities that are, among other things, the implementation of the immigration policy, but there stands the care of asylum issues and the evasion of refugees coming to BiH, the creation of a policy of immigration and asylum, the creation of a BiH policy towards emigration. So, this is now in the Ministry Act as the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Human Rights. At the same time, when it comes to the Law on the Ministry of Security Act, it says it implements a policy of immigration and asylum and regulates procedures relating to the movement and stay of foreigners, etc. So, the truth can be said that to some extent there is a problem of conflict, of a positive conflict of jurisdiction, but I've established here if we evaluate together that the law needs to be passed today, and I think it should, then this undeniable issue can, of course, be resolved with a little more flexibility by applying this method that I'm talking about. So this is a modest contribution, possibly to our definition of passing the law. Otherwise, as far as the amendments are concerned, it is known when amendments are involved in the implementation of the procedure and if it is estimated that we should move further in that direction, of course we will make a statement in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7924	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Špirić. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7925	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of the Census, I think we have a bill on moving, staying foreigners and asylum in the second reading. So we have a business prescribed procedure when it comes to legal projects. I think we really use unnecessary gymnastics. I think this is about non-compliance, or coordination between the College of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, when this point was put on the agenda, which is a sign that this Council of Ministers' meeting had to intercept the requirements of the legal projects from the last call and say. We're pushing these into procedure, we're putting these procedures in place, and we're offering you new ones. That's what I was talking about when we were discussing that horror system that everything should be here. Since we didn't respect it, there's a way out. I'm here to pass the law today, and the Council of Ministers to initiate an initiative to amend and supplement the law in five days, in seven days, whenever they want, when they're ready. But we can't keep the state without that law. So this is about a motion to move, stay strangers and asylum, a second reading. What are we talking about? If there is a law, of course there is, we should bring it. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7926	Let the man speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7927	I say it's a second reading and there's no procedure here, first there's no procedure for the business withdrawal of the law from the second reading, there's no, unless someone invented it. So, today in the second reading, we need to make a statement about the law, and if the Council of Ministers has serious or small objections, let them prepare the changes and supplement in seven days, in 10 days, but let us respect the business procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7928	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. There's a Rules of Procedure, and here's what I asked the Secretary of the House for. Mrs. Palavrić is asking for a word. Let us address this situation so that the College proposes possible solutions to the rules of procedure and over.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7929	I just want to remind you of the fact that we recently adopted in the Law on Arms Control with the same shortcomings, with the same problems, there were also problems with the jurisdiction to split ministries etc. So, I plead to act in the way that Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Špirić advocated and to approach the vote today, to pass the law without harmonising it in the walk. Thank you very much. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7930	Thank you. Let's move on. So, look here, we have two options for the Rules of Procedure. One option is the one proposed by Mrs Palavrić, proposed by Mr Ćeman, proposed by Mr Špirić, to now enter into the law in the second reading. Another possibility is that, under Article 94(3), we allow an additional amendment phase in which the Council of Ministers, through MPs, of course, is now Parliament's law. This is no longer the Council of Ministers' law to intervene on this text and then to come to the debate here in Parliament. Here's what you decide. I personally think this other variant is better. To open up the possibility and I'd like to ask the presidents of the clubs if they can accept this other variant, no matter what they point out. The Council of Ministers has a need to intervene in law. We're not going to destroy what we've done on the law so far. I don't know how today's law is going to go through the margin of voting, it's my unknown right to tell you. I know what the amendments are here. There are 16 amendments to Mr. Ćeman. There are seven amendments to Mr. Novaković. I don't know how the law's gonna go, so then he goes to the college meeting, and then he goes back here to Parliament. I think it's simpler if we leave the Council of Ministers a deadline. Mrs. Palavrić, can you accept this? Mr. Špirić, can you accept this? They tell me it is. I consulted. I wouldn't have suggested anything. In accordance with Article 94 of Article 3. To give a deadline to the Council of Ministers 20 days from today, to prepare these amendments and, through MPs, to the clubs these amendments come here to Parliament within 20 days and to definitely tell us what it is to end this matter. Don't ruin a part of the procedure we've done so far, because we're very careful not to undo what's been done. If you agree here with me, with this proposal for a conclusion, I'm putting the vote to the vote. Who is it, 20 days from today? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that, unanimously, without votes against and without abstentions, we have adopted a conclusion that we have extended this amendment phase for the next 20 days in which the Council of Ministers should definitely say what is with this proposal, the law, whether they have new amendments to bring them into line to do what they think they are doing, of course through MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly, because the Council of Ministers cannot make changes at this stage and that it is then going to the House session in the second reading. That's how I think we saved ourselves at least two months in the process. This is, in my opinion, the shortest. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7931	So, I don't mind voting. I would only ask that we call on a member of the Rules of Procedure to extend the legislative procedure and the time to submit. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7932	Article 94(3), point (b) and
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7933	He can't. He can assess how the debate is conducted. They have deadlines. Well, I guess the laws have their own procedure. If it worked like this, we wouldn't end up anywhere. I'm warning you, I think it's smarter to pass the law and to change and supplement go, I think it's business, I think it's better. I said if it's business, it's not business. I got the answer that it's business, and it's not business. Somebody call me a member of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7934	Look out, Mr. Špirić, look what the problem is. Now I'll tell you what the problem is. So, it's possible, I've consulted with the Home Secretary. We, of course, adopted the conclusion, so wait. The man asked a question and should answer the question. You don't have to go any further until you at least give an answer. It is a specific law, which was inherited from the earlier call of Parliament, in which the procedure was continued after Parliament's conclusion and can find a foothold in the Rules of Procedure in Article 94, only because of the law of the earlier term, the law that was inherited in the parliamentary procedure and under which the parliamentary procedure was continued on the basis of our conclusion. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.8. Proposed law on enforcement proceedings before the Court of BiH at the 10th session of the Proposed Law on Excessive Procedure before the Court of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Following the adoption by the Commission of the College, the examination of the law is now in the second reading. There were no amendments to the bill. I am opening a debate on the draft law on enforcement proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH, which is, therefore, the 8th item of the agenda. Here you go. Who wants to talk? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7935	The SDS MPs' club last time challenged the constitutional basis for this law and did not enter into the essence of the law and if we have a lot of objections to the text of the law, but we still believe that here is a controversial constitutional basis and for these reasons the SDS Club will not support this law in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7936	Who else wants to talk? If there's no one else to answer for, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. 87 Who is to adopt the Law on Executive Procedure before the Court of BiH in a second reading? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? There isn't. Give me the results. We have to go to entity. I'm asking the Federation MPs who's in favor of the law. Thank you. I ask the MPs of the RS who's in favor of the law? Of the 38 MPs present – 33 voted in favour – 5 – 1 was abstentioned and it has already been seen from this general that there is an entity, but here is the entity. The Federation voted 25 for, therefore, more than one-third. The RS voted 8, which is more than a third, and I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on the Executive Procedure before the Court of BiH in its second reading. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina- the law was adopted in the second reading at the 10th session of the draft law in the first reading. You have a report from the competent commission containing an amendment adopted by the commission. There were no subsequent amendments to the bill. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to pass this law? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Of the 37 MPs present, all 37 voted in favour. He didn't mind, there weren't any abstentions. There is no need for entity voting, so I can conclude that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH in the second reading was adopted unanimously. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. The proposal for a Law on the Matika of emigrants of BiH – the law was adopted in the second reading of this bill in the first reading of the 10th session of the House. You have a report from the Commission since 31.01.2003. Only one amendment was adopted by the Commission. New amendments, calling for Article 94 point 3a. They submitted Momčilo Novaković, Nenad Mišić and Mirsad Ćeman. I note that the amendments of MPs Mišić and Novaković are identical to Article 15. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? If no one answers for a word. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the procedure of voting on amendments to this law. Here you go, sir. No problem. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7937	Madam Presidents, when it comes to this item on the agenda of the draft law, I would like to present a few things that are not in favour of the adoption of this and this law today. This law that we have in front of us treats one extremely sensitive problem, and it's made, and I have to be free, who doesn't treat the other. I find it very inconclusive. I was not in the procedure, nor was I a member of Parliament at the time when this was brought and which does not mean that he might react differently than today, but I have the opportunity to state my opinion, my view that this law is being cut off by a few things, or the proposal of this law, hairs with several real facts that are on the ground. First of all, there is no talking here or mentioning that there is a Croatian queen of emigrants. Only the queen of the BiH emigrants, which was founded in accordance with the current socialist regulations, is spoken here. Federal Emigrant Mother, the Croatian Emigrant Queen, was in '96. established, in accordance with the current rules of the Federation of BiH. I don't know what will happen to such queens that do and I have their report here in front of me and I haven't had a chance to present to this distinguished home the thinking, or suggestions that these people who make this queen. I also have a request from these people, which is nine months old, which is addressed to the Minister responsible for conducting this legal procedure at the time, who in the full seven months has not entitled to return the information that he does not want to or will not or will not discuss on the subject and the suggestions offered by these distinguished gentlemen today to have a much better quality law to protect the interests of these people who, at the time and in time, are in accordance with the Law and to organise themselves. I would also like to say that it would be more acceptable for us to have a roof institution, a roof organization called the BiH Emigration Matica. We've seen here that there are a dozen amendments to this bill. Among them is whether the headquarters will be in Sarajevo, whether it will be in Banja Luka, according to that I would then say being in Mostar etc. I think that today, too, I want to say that we have a report that is the same or identical to what we had at least on the Constitutional and Legal Commission that we got on the tables today. We were on the Constitutional and Legal Committee yesterday reviewing these three draft laws and in each of them you have the last item that is completely identical that the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives is unable to discuss whether or not it is from our domain. We've done something, which is, hopefully, possible and acceptable to us at this point. What we did with the Proposal for a Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum, I think that, I would suggest we accept such a thing for this law that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7938	Thank you, sir. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Ćeman Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7939	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, 89 I will be brief on this matter. I am, for principle reasons, since I voted for a little before the law we talked about to sort of get him back to thinking again to the Council of Ministers. I don't mind going the same way when it comes to this law. So, for principled reasons, from the same ones I had in mind last time I made up my mind. But also for principled reasons, I think that with, here I have made some amendments that are some legal-technical, and some essential nature would also implement the procedure around this law. Let the Dom be determined. In any case, however this house decides, I just want to point out one or two things that should be considered, among other things, when it comes to this institution. The queen of emigrants is not a classic association of citizens. So, we can say that, in some ways, it is a Sujigeneris institution that is established by law when it comes to the association of citizens by law that allows citizens to be formed. So one important difference, and if we're talking about roofs or other institutions, then according to this, I'm looking at this attitude, it looks like the Emigrant Matica that he's supposed to form should be a roof association. I think logic has a certain effect, but let's think about it. For me in this case, it may be a more important question, since, and I have pointed to that by my amendment, which you have had the opportunity to see whether or not this institution will have or not public powers, which under the Administration Act are possible to be transferred to an institution of this or some other kind. If they have, which are, etc. and the issue of registration, which is not mentioned here at all, but I know that this issue is highly relevant to the resolution ministry, whether this institution should be registered or not at all, because, I remind you again, it is not an association of citizens, it is established by law and, as such, it is, in particular, that in some way here, at least such an approach in the bill that we have received from the Mothers of the Immigrants of BiH, which was founded under the law of the 60th and Ninke of the year, in some way as it has breathed over the past years on the gills, or it has not breathed at all, in some way, has some kind of continuity. So let me finish. Here, however this House decides, I would suggest that, if we choose to continue the process of declaration on amendments, that at least some of these amendments, I think they are quite well founded, not just those of legal-technical nature, because that would be an improvement in the text and the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7940	If no one answers for a word. I'm closing the debate. We need to conduct the procedure. We made an exception. We found an interpretation in the Rules of Procedure regarding the Law on Movement, the residence of foreigners and asylum, with a desire not to fall, so it was a law from the formerly convened and we had the position and the Council of Ministers here at the pay phone. The procedure must be followed. There is no such possibility here. It's about the law that started with the procedure that we have to go to the plea. We have six amendments, we have seven amendments Mr. Mišić Nenad and we have three amendments to Momčilo Novaković. We'll go in order how the amendments were accepted here according to this seal. 90 So, 17.02, then 20.03 and 17.03. So, first Mr. Momčilo Novaković's amendment and then Mr. Mišić's amendment and then Mr. Ćeman's amendment, as far as I could compare it. We're moving on to a plea. I'm asking you who he is, who he is to adopt the amendment and Momčilo Novaković? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Give me the results. I find that the amendment has not received general parliamentary support and we are going to a statement. To determine the results. 36 present – 5 was for – 19 versus – 10 abstentions. The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We move on to Amendment II of Mr. Novaković. Amendment II Who is it to adopt Amendment II of Mr. Novaković? Thank you. Who's against that amendment? Turn off your phones. It doesn't make sense. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Give me the results. I find 5 votes for – 28 against and 3 abstentions. The amendment did not win the parliamentary majority. I ask you who is to adopt Amendment III to Mr. Novaković? Same as Amendment VII of Mr. Music. Thank you. Who's against that amendment? May I have your attention, please? Don't make a mistake. Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Give me the results. The results speak this way – 5 I was in favour – 20 was against – were accommodating 5.. I konstatovati the amendment has not received parliamentary support. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask you to keep your attention when we vote. The Secretariat staff can't count their votes in quality. Here, now you have seen that several MPs have not voted at all. This is the most important act in the session, the vote is the most important act in the session. We move on to a statement on Mr. Mišić Nenad's amendments. I'm asking you to plead. Who's to accept the amendment and Mr. Music? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you. - 7 for – 21 against – 7 abstentions. The amendment didn't receive support. Amendment II to Mr. Muscle. Who's up for that amendment? There's nothing in the package. This is where we have to walk. Did you count it? Abstained? It's the other way around. I'm following procedure. Give me the results. - 6 for – 20 against – 8 abstentions, the amendment did not receive the required majority in Parliament. We're moving on to Amendment III of Mr. Michel. 91 Amendment III Who's in favour? Who is against Amendment III, Mr. Music? Abstained? Thank you very much. -6 for – 23 against – 4 Suspensions. The amendment didn't receive support. We're moving on. We move on to a statement on Mr. Misic's IV amendment. Amendment IV Who's in favour? Who's against Amendment IV? Mr. Selima, hold your breath, and I ask which one against. Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? - 6 for – 20 against – 8 abstentions did not get the required majority. Moving to the Declaration on Amendment V. Who's for Amendment V? munibe, please don't. Thank you very much. Who's against Amendment V? Thank you very much. Abstained from Amendment V? Thank you, too. - 6 for – 20 against – the abstention of 7 amendments did not receive the required majority. We move on to a statement on Mr. Misic's VI amendment. Who's in favour of adopting Mr. Music's VI amendment? Thank you very much. Who's against that amendment? Thank you very much. Who's abstaining from the amendment? Thank you very much. - 7 for – 18 against – abstention 8 did not receive the required majority of amendments. Amendment VII Who is in order to adopt amendment VII. He's just like Novakovićev. We've already voted on it, and it didn't get the necessary majority. We have six amendments to the Mirsad Ćeman. Who's to adopt the amendment and Mr. Ćeman? Thank you very much. Who's against Mr. Ćeman's amendment? Thank you very much. Who's abstaining from Mr. Ćeman's amendment? Thank you. Entity statement. From the Federation who's for Mr. Ćeman's amendment? Did you count it? Thank you very much. From the RS who's for Mr. Ćeman's amendment, Amendment I? 26 present – 16 for – 13 versus – 7 abstentioned. There is general parliamentary support. From Vederation 15 for, there is support from the Federation of BiH entity RS 2 for. So, there is no one-third, there is no entity support of the RS entity and amendment and Mr. Ćeman is going to agree. 92 Amendment II to Mr. Ćeman. Who's in favour of the amendment
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7941	Is it just an alternative or a basic text? There are two solutions here. You pulled the alternative.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7942	Is he withdrawing an alternative, Mr. Ćeman? The alternative is only the basic text. Who's for Amendment II for the basic text without Mr. Ćeman's alternative? Who's in? Did you count it? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Give me the results, let's see what's going on. Amendment II by Mr. Ćeman 11 voted in favour – 16 against – there were 7 abstentions. The amandman did not receive general parliamentary support. So he didn't pass. Amendment III to Mr. Ćeman kao is for Amendment III to Mr. Ceman? Thank you. Who is against Amendment III of Mr. Ćeman? Thank you very much. Abstained? Thank you very much. 12 for – 18 against – 5 abstentions, the amendment did not receive the necessary parliamentary support. Amendment IV kao is to accept amendment IV to Mr. Ćeman? Did you count it? Who's against Amendment IV to Mr. Ćeman? Thank you very much. Who is abstaining from Amendment IV? Thank you, too. 12 for – 15 against – 7 abstentions, the amendment did not receive support. We're moving to a plea regarding Amendment v amandman V. Who's for Amendment V, Mr. Ćeman? Thank you very much. Who's against Amendment V? Thank you very much. Abstained from Amendment V? Thank you, too. 15 for – 13 against – 6 abstentions. The amendment has general parliamentary support. We're going after the entities. Who's from the Federation of Amendment V? Who's from the RS for the amendment? Thank you. 93 from the Federation, how much is it for? Federation 13 – RS 2nd Amendment goes to the alignment of Amendment v. amandman VI to Mr. Ćeman kao is for Amendment VI of Mr. Ćeman? Who's against Amendment VI? Abstained? Thank you. 14 for – 8 against – 13 abstentions. The amendment has general parliamentary support. We're going to an entity statement. From the Federation who's up for the amendment? Thank you. From the RS who's up for the amendment? Thank you, too. The amendment goes as far as I can see, because from the RS there are two votes for, and from Federation 13 for. We will proceed immediately with the procedure under this law. The college only for a short time so we don't delay giving, can we reach agreement on these amendments? We can't, can we? I find that the College has not reached agreement on Amendment I, Amendment V and Amendment VI. Now we're going to vote in the second round, because the College didn't agree. I ask the MPs of the Federation who is against the amendment i the Ćeman, who went to the alignment. They've got three at the alignment. We didn't get along, and we're continuing the procedure. Who is from Republika Srpska against the amendment and Mr. Ćeman? Thank you very much. From Federation 5 v. From Republika Srpska 12 against, so the amendment did not get the required majority. We've got an amendment V that's been to the alignment. I'm asking from the Federation who's against Amendment V? Thank you very much. From Republika Srpska who is against Amendment V? Thank you. 4 is against the Federation. It's 12 from Republika Srpska, over two-thirds, and I realize that this amendment has not passed either. We have an amendment VI that was at Mr. Ćeman's consent. From the Federation who's against this amendment? Thank you very much. From the RS who's against the amendment? From Federation 5 v, RS 11 so it's more than two-thirds, so this amendment didn't go through either. May I have your attention, please? So, no amendment in the procedure of the complete that had put us through quite a bit of trouble didn't go through, or it didn't bother us, but it was a little lengthy, but let's face it, it's better that... 94 We move to a statement on the text of the law. No amendments have been adopted. So we're voting on the text without amendments, because the amendments are all gone. Who's up for the law? Thank you very much. Who's against the law? Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Give me the results. There are no messengers for them, 17 against them, and no abstention. The law has won the parliamentary majority. We're going to the second round. Who's from the Federation of Law? Did you count it? Thank you. Who's from the RS for the law? 37 is present in total. 20 votes for law 17 voted against. By entities. The Federation voted for 17 and has support and two voted in favour from the RS and it is less than one-third and the law goes to agreeing at the College session. We'll hold a session of the Colleges on this alignment. We'll move on with the agenda later on, and you'll be notified. We're not doing it today. We've been doing this about the amendment today, but we appreciate that it's supposed to be a session and it's going to be at the College session. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition – the law is in the first reading – the proposer of the Vijće minstar law was sent to poslanik on 16 September 2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted its report on 10 March 2003. I note, this is a discussion of principles. The law is in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers their word, I'm the one who concludes the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Who's to pass the law in the first reading? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. By the time the results come, I can conclude that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of handguns and ammunition. The results of the vote are: 36 for, without opposition and without abstentions. Ad.12. The proposal for a law on the protection of plant health – the proposal of the Council of Ministers was sent to MEPs on 20.12.2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 31.12.2002. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is also responsible for this proposal. The report delivered March 10th of O.G. I'm opening a debate. The law is in first reading. If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to a plea. 95 Who is it to adopt the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. With 36 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, I find that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a law on the protection of plant health in the first reading. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. Ad.13. The election of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on Equality and Gender Equality in BiH At the 10th session of the House, we adopted the Law on Equality of Business in BiH. The law was passed earlier on the House of Peoples. As the law is adopted in different texts, it is necessary to implement the harmonisation in order to achieve a uniform text of the law. Therefore, from our home, we need to appoint three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the uniform text of the law. The extended college has proposed that gentlemen Jozo Križanović, Nadžida Mlaćo and Ljiljana Milićević be appointed to the House of Representatives commission. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm asking you who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Are there any abstentions? I find that with 36 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions we have appointed gentlemen: Joza Križanović, Nadžid Mlaćo and Ljiljana Milićević, as representatives of our home in the Joint Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the alignment of the text of the Law on Gender Equality in BiH. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. A report on the financial operations of the Public Enterprise News publishing organisation "The Official Journal of BiH", following an annual account for 2002, is submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at least once a year by the Public Business Office of BiH, in accordance with Article 20(1) of the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH. You've received the report earlier. I, here, am opening a debate over this report. If no one answers the word, I suggest that the Parliamentary Assembly, or our home, take note of this report, is the only thing we can do at this time. Who is to this conclusion, if there are no other conclusions? So, I apologize, I have one note, the conclusion of the College is that this report is accepted, i.e. to take note, and that we will discuss when the report of the Office of Audit comes. I would like to thank Mr. Raguž, that we will have a debate when 96 the audit office report arrives and according to this report. That is, therefore, the proposal for a final proposal for a conclusion. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 36 votes, we have adopted no votes against and no abstentions. Ad.15. A proposal from SNSD and MPs Tihomir Gligorić and Mirko Blagojević to vote on the BiH Council of Ministers' mistrust At the 10th session of the House on 5 March 2003, as you know SNSD MPs' Club with MPs Tihomir Gligorić, Mirko Blagojević, submitted a motion for a vote on non-trust of the BiH Council of Ministers. The proposal has been submitted in accordance with Article 116(1). On the same day, I delivered the initiative to the Council of Ministers and MPs of the House. As you know, the initiative is required to be delivered on the agenda after 20 days and no later than 30 days from the date of delivery to the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 119, each Proposer shall have the right to explain his proposal at the House session. This has already been done when this proposal was submitted, here I am now in a position to open a debate on this topic, the agenda item, so SNSD and MPs Tihomir Gligorić and Mirko Blagojević's proposal for a vote of mistrust to the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7943	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, one of my colleagues in front of the SNSD will come and explain our proposal. I went out to ask the ministry, or Council of Ministers and its president to comply with Article 118. The Rules of Procedure, it is said, can submit a report in writing before the beginning of a session or agenda on the vote of no confidence, with opinions and views. The report will be delivered to MPs no later than 48 hours before the session is held. Since in the meantime... and the occasion was the CIPS project, changing prices, so it increased one day, the other day was reduced, other documents were also increased, I expected the Council of Ministers to deliver some report to the MPs about it. Of course, article 118 doesn't say it should, but says it can. So I wanted to get an answer from the Council of Ministers. Accordingly, we will then propose, in accordance with Article 120(2) of each other's initiative, well, depending on what the Council of Ministers says, we will propose another initiative. Thank you. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7944	Okay, thanks. Who else wants to talk? The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7945	Here is exactly that we had the opportunity and in writing to explain, give our view of seeking the SNSD Club's initiative, however, because the High Representative has changed the Council of Ministers' decision, meaning that we expect the SNSD Club to change its request and that instead of voting on non-trust, the Council of Ministers will ask the Council of Ministers to vote on non-trust, because the Council of Ministers has changed the decision of the High Representative to make the price of issuing the ID card 10 marks, not 14.5 as the High Representative said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7946	I thank President Terzić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7947	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, there is little tiredness, and I am grateful to the Council of Ministers for having responded so briefly and concisely to our request, because the initiative was serious, and it seems to me that the answer is very serious. You see, it would be good if we were to sit down every day, if people had something to do, here's the whole day with you, sometimes it's not bad to have a job, to sit around and watch what MPs are looking for, but what I want to say is that at the time we started the initiative, a big media show was created, I'd say, a big media show for a reason, because then the Council of Ministers at their session was happily out with a price of 10 marks, suggesting that citizens would be compensated, that money would be paid back, that they would bear the responsibility of those who stole the citizens, so it's... Council of Ministers. We wanted the Council of Ministers only to respect what was public and what was behind it. The Council of Ministers found it with the Office of the High Representative and it seems to me that it is not good to tie our request for the name of the High Representative here, because it seems to me that it is not the High Representative, the question is whether you would have the courage at all to be concerned with what is the Council of Ministers' task. So, I don't want to analyze it, because we didn't ask for it in our request, nor did we speak or mention the name of the High Representative, it seems to me that when it proclaims you as the favorites of the reform, that it is good, when it introduces you into something that has no exit, it doesn't suit you, but, of course, it is the right of the Council of Ministers to look at the position of the High Representative. It is unfortunate that the Council of Ministers has not told or told the citizens where the difference of 3.5 marks was covered, whether on traffic permits or on any other document. 98 So, what is the problem in BiH is that ordinary citizens of mortals should pay 100 marks for their documents and not have those funds. I want to tell you that budget funds, so the budgets we're discussing have paid for some things that may not have been a priority, maybe, why is it said that the project is self-sustainable, only if it's from an ordinary citizen's pocket. How it is possible to talk about the self-sustainability of any project in BiH, if it only enters citizens' pockets, is it not a self-sustainable project to be partly accompanied by budget funds or other donor funds, etc. It seems to me that in this way when the Council of Ministers joins the initiative of any club or SNSD club, it will create a chance that the Council of Ministers will do some more stupid things, but the moment the citizens of BiH realize, and I hope that this time is not far away that in this way the authorities, especially the executive authorities do not have the right to use citizens' patience. We are aware and responsible for this initiative. We'll get to the bottom of this initiative. Of course, those who have a parliamentary majority will have a chance to continue to do what the BiH citizens have done unfortunately. So we're seriously behind our initiative. It will be spoken of, of course, depending on the views of other MPs from other political parties, but I ask that when the initiative of any club comes, it was the order of the archives for 50 years that there was a written clue that the Council of Ministers had the strength to have opinions and in writing to address Parliament. So the Rules of Procedure allow it not to be done, but the seriousness of the situation requires and it would be good if it were done. So my attitude remained unchanged. I will vote today for the Council of Ministers' impeachment. I don't think there's been a change in the situation in favour of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, the situation in economic terms is getting worse in BiH. I do not think that it is solely responsible, so it is only the Council of Ministers, but it must be clear to all of us that the price of any instability in economic or political in every normal state pays for executive power, and therefore I ask you that whenever I perform and criticise executive power, not people individually, I understand that this job is both difficult and responsible and sometimes there is no adequate and rational solution, but I would therefore ask that these demands be considered by our MPs' concerns for what is called the present but also the future of BiH and the citizens in BiH. I wouldn't want it to be understood with a dose of cynicism or sarcasm according to the position of the High Representative. I don't think that's wise, I don't think it's smart. It seems to me that Mr. Chairman wanted you to make fun of us, so you mentioned the position of the High Representative, believe that's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7948	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Terzić is asking for a word, so Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7949	I must first say that at the last session, I realized, in fact, at the meeting when this initiative was launched, that the basic problem in the Council of Ministers is that, at least so presented by Mr Špirić and, among other things, that the problem of 99 of this Council of Ministers is that the High Representative has changed our decision and, if and then I have claimed that we have made no decision and that there are records from the Council of Ministers' meetings, and that is why I have now used the name of the High Representative. But I came out to say one of the most important things about what Mr. Špirić was saying, mentioning a self-sustaining and self-financed project. So this isn't the Council of Ministers that launched a project that belongs to the category by self-financing. It is precisely that the parliamentary majority, which was before us designed and launched this project and we have only found ourselves in one chaotic state, which could have brought Budget BiH into a collapse, decommissioned it, solved it and to the satisfaction of the citizens, and this is seen through the realization of the CIPS project at this time, to the satisfaction of the citizens determined by the level of issue for the ID card, which, I say, is the most appropriate moment for their capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7950	I thank Mr. Terzić. Mr. Sead Avdić. I would like to ask the Secretariat's professional services, the Secretariat, to inform the MPs to enter the O.R., because we will approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7951	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, it is good that the former government has launched the CIPS nickname and we have achieved a full degree of political consent and consensus around it, it is one of the vital projects, simply BiH, but the Council of Ministers has also the task of correcting and simply exemplifying the project to the possibilities of BiH citizens, which means that there was possible reason and empty space, neon space for these prices to be balanced and to illustrate the difficult social situation in BiH. It should also be pointed out that the real preservation of the moral and political integrity of the Council of Ministers has regained that authority and, in this context, every honour, congratulations on what has been done from the aspect of the correction of the price of ID cards. Yesterday, on behalf of the Local Club at the Expanded College, I sought and sought again today, given that today's text... is from the new government, convened by the Council of Ministers. Since it is not simple to put on the vote of confidence of the Council of Ministers, I propose a high degree of tolerance and I call on behalf of this mixed club, the SNSD Club to be congratulated on the vigilance of the Council of Ministers' responsibility towards Parliament, so that this initiative is quite legitimate, that simply this time, since reasons for asking questions are removed from the Council of Ministers' confidence to give up its request and not to vote on non-trust with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7952	I thank Mr. Avdić. Who else wants to talk? If no one's saying a word anymore, I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to a plea. If, of course, the Club remains 100 at its request, I ask you who is it that the House of Representatives vote not to trust the Council of Ministers? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you very much. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives did not accept the SNSD Club's proposal and two MPs, Mr Gligorić and Blagojević, to vote not to trust the Council of Ministers. Five MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly voted for the SNSD and two MPs' proposal. Twenty-seven MPs voted against the proposal and five MPs were abstentioned. We move to the 16th item of the agenda, this is the item of the agenda proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić, which we put on the agenda for his intervention. So, Ad. 16. Information on tendered for the creation of a spatial basis for the establishment of information systems for demining purposes in Bosnia and Herzegovina I am opening a debate on this agenda point. Mr. Špirić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7953	Madam Chairman, since we all, of course, do not have the same number of information related to this issue, I am grateful that this point has come to the agenda. It seems to me that fatigue has done its part and I will be prepared to suggest to you in what way we can successfully apostrophy this point as Parliament. I just want to tell you that the ITF based in Slovenia launched a tender in August 2002 for the creation of a digital roto photo background in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of creating a spatial basis for the establishment of information systems. The tender has been cancelled three times, three times, although business entities from Bosnia and Herzegovina have appeared with the intention of giving it to the Geodetic Institute of Slovenia. The director, Mr. Cimeršek, had been approved, although the tender had not been completed, that the 2002 funds had not been spent. That is the problem of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications at the request of reception Bosnia and Herzegovina's entities address the relevant addresses and, of course, because by 15 April, it is expected that, by order of the director without a tender for giving jobs, I think our active position would be to ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications for the next session of Parliament, if that is the case, information related to these activities and that 101 simply Parliament takes a position on what is done, if tenders have been made. [[you don't understand what word]] So to get as Parliament information from the competent ministry so that we can take a clear position as Parliament on this issue. I think that would be the right answer to what was the point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7954	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Does anyone want to talk more? Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers Adnan Terzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7955	Since there is no one from the Ministry of Civil Affairs or the minister or deputy here, I would just accept this initiative by MP Špirić just asking that it might not be better to ask immediately than whoever is carrying it out. Is that inside the MAK?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7956	He didn't come out for the pay phone. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I can do both.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7957	Well, yes, but let's ask the MAC right away. Because when you ask for civil affairs, while they ask for the MAC, by the time they get to the Council of Ministers, then the Council of Ministers. It's to ask the MAK directly to get that information. I think that would be a faster way, a more efficient way. Here's the suggestion. BH MAK's normal.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7958	I thank Mr. Terzić. Mr. Bešlagić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7959	Since this point has come as an emergency point on the agenda, I really have to say I have no information. First of all, I'd like to know if the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ministry, the government or anyone has called this tender? Or it's Slovenia on a voluntary basis, since there's one, let's say the desire to do it. If that's Slovenia, I don't see any reason to ask them. But if that's what the state called it, then there's got to be some data that did it? 102
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7960	He didn't come out for a pay phone. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7961	That's why I, if it's an interpretation, then I thank you. That's why I'm saying I'm not familiar. Therefore, I would ask for information. Then he'd pass on the information from who. Because you can simply ask the MAC, maybe the MAC isn't an order at all. Did the Ministry make a request for such documentation? Or do we need the information given by the tendering order? After that, I absolutely agree with everyone to bring it here and bring the information. That's what I mean, it's not defined so I can't participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7962	Thank you. Nikola, wait a minute, I'll suggest. No need, I mean it's all clear. I'll give an explanation, I know what you mean by this, unless you insist on it. Does anyone else want to talk? Watch this. The executive body of the government directly related to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the Council of Ministers. And this request will be addressed to the Council of Ministers, let the Council of Ministers continue to carry out it as the Council of Ministers thinks through its ministries or institutions overseeing the Council of Ministers and this is the only possible way. In the end, it wouldn't be good if we were talking to someone other than the Council of Ministers. We have the Council of Ministers, and for now that's enough for us. So this initiative by Mr Špirić about obtaining this information, I suggest that he head for the Council of Ministers and thus conclude the agenda. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Is there anyone against this conclusion? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Okay. Let's go. 35 present, 34 for. There's no one against it, there's one against it. No, no, one was against it. Good one against, no abstentions. So we adopted most of the votes this conclusion. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. 103 Ad.17. The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a joint committee of both homes for European integration, therefore, the parliamentary commission of this Parliament for European integration You are ladies and gentlemen Members who have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a joint commission for European integration. He agreed at a session of the Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and, of course, the Extended College. First we declare the text of the conclusion itself, the proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7963	So this is another need for the Parliamentary Assembly to have one joint committee for European integration. The HDZ and Demokrćani club supports this initiative and the establishment of such a commission. But here in point 4, the joint commission among its members is elected by the chairman, the first and second vice-presidents of the three constituent nations. That's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. We also violated the first item yesterday, let's say this point 4 says the first session of the joint commission is called by the presidents of both homes. Yesterday's joint commission of both homes was not called by the home presidents and those who called were not present. So I don't even know how the session started and how she ended up and she ran and ended up how she ended up. I'm just saying this so it doesn't happen to us with all the future commissions. And then today I get on the bench and I don't even know who left me a public tender for the election and appointment of four members of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service BiH and then we're told we've arranged something. We got a proposal different than we agreed on, and if I have any objections by 11.04, I send or deliver, I don't know who again. I think it is not a good work of the joint committees and my proposal is that we no longer do what we did with this commission on the BiH Radio-Television Service and see if this point 4 is that the Joint Commission chooses the chairman, the first and second vice-president in line with the Rules of Procedure. I don't think so. For point 4 of Article 44 says the chairman and vice-president of the Joint Commission cannot be members of the same home and of the same constituent people. So, there's no mention of the vice president, it's the vice president. Also, personally, I don't agree with the Expansive College's conclusion that from the House of Representatives, or otherwise it was agreed 9 plus 3 and I don't know what kind of formulas, now I see here in the conclusion that 6 plus 6. My view is that of these 6 is selected 2+2+2 because the joint commissions and the Rules of Procedure do not prejudge the number of representatives per club when forming joint committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7964	I thank Mr. Zorić. Who else wants to talk? I'll just give one clarification and then conclude the debate. So, acts on the establishment of a commission for European integration continue for a long time. Around this commission in connection with a public competition to elect four members of the PBIS Management Board, it also lasted two months and 104 were here at the House of Parliament and the two chairmans called the commission, but it was the ad-hok commission, which also met yesterday from its ranks. So she exists until this job is done. When that job was done, she stopped there and, right to tell you, I had a mass obligation yesterday I couldn't come to that meeting, but I fulfilled my obligation when I invited the MPs to come to Parliament to establish themselves and do their job. But here's what I can say is that when they sign off on those committees, they'll be the chairman of their homes. I can respect that remark of yours, at least until the chairman is elected, the first deputy, the second deputy and all that is to be done. If that's the problem, then it's certainly a failure of me as chairman, or an inadequate commitment planning, there have been a lot of them these days. As for these European Integration Commissions, therefore, this is a joint committee of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly homes, the specificities that exist in the House of Peoples and the specificities that exist in the House of Representatives must be respected here. So, this is a commission that should reflect one, I would say proportionate-parity structure, because the House of Representatives is drawn up on a proportionate principle, and the House of Peoples on a parity principle, and then at the joint sessions of the Colleges we agreed, so all members of the College yesterday at the Expansive College that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Joint Commission, they must have equal numbers of members of 6 from one home, 6 from another home, that's what the Rules of Procedure say. We need this commission very much. The House of Peoples must come together, but the overall composition of the commission should reflect the structure of both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and that is this structure that has been agreed upon. Believe me, it couldn't have gone any other way. Here, that's my clarification and I'm now after this clarification Mr. Zorić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7965	I will, of course, give you an insight into this. I met with the chairman of the House of People yesterday, or last night on my way home to Mostar, and he didn't even know it was a session, let alone he called, and I'll give you an insight into the invitation that you signed and you'll see that he didn't even call there.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7966	I was talking about myself. Mr. Pamuk signed because Mr. Zorić was at the time, I know the chairman, Mr. Jukić, was away from BiH at the time and that's why it was so signed. Nothing else is the reason, Mr. Zorić, that you know for sure. I signed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7967	I just said he didn't even know about that commission. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2003-04-09-0.u7968	Okay, but now we're talking about the European Integration Commission. Anyone else want to talk? If no one answers their word, we move to a plea. I'm asking you, who's in favour of this conclusion? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against this conclusion? Are there any abstentions? Give me a number of states. I find that the House of Representatives with, of a total of 37 votes present with 32 votes for – against 4 and 1 abstention adopted this conclusion on the establishment of the Joint Commission of both homes for European integration. We're now going to the 17th point of the agenda, which is now based on the 16th point. Ad.17. The appointment of members of the House of Representatives in the joint commission of both homes for European integration So, as you have seen in the conclusion, the Joint Committee on European Integration has 12 members of whom 6 are elected from the House of Peoples. The agreed structure: House of Peoples 2+2+2 per nation, House of Representatives 3+2+1 per nation. The party's proposals are next. To be appointed from this home to this commission by the next six persons. Mrs. Fatima Leho, Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović, Mr. Selim Bešlagić, Mr. Nenad Mišić, Mr. Filip Andrić and Mr. Milorad Živković. So this is a proposal. I'm opening a debate. I'm finishing my dispersion, and we're moving on to a plea. Who's up for the proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against the proposal? Are there any abstentions? 39 present – 39 voted in favour, so without votes against and without abstentions we chose our part of this committee and adopted this conclusion and we move on to the 19th point of the agenda. Ad.19. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, I am opening a debate under this agreement. Who wants to talk? I'm finishing my dispersion, and we're moving on to a plea. Who is it to give consent to ratify this agreement? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that, with 39 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have agreed to ratify the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin 106 b) Protocol 12 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms I open the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to give consent? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I agree that in unanimity with 39 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we have agreed to ratify Protocol 12 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. c) Protocol 13 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the elimination of the death penalty in all circumstances I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that we have voted unanimously with 39 votes in favour, with no votes against the approval to ratify Protocol 13 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which relate to the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the session is not yet complete. I'm asking you to be patient, don't get too old. What you've done now is not correct to me as the chairman who's been grinding and talking all day and managing this course here, let me finish the session the way we started. Thank you for having responded. I announce that the 11th session has finished its work at 17:55. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00 at the plenary session. Thank you very much.
