ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1472	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests and respected representatives of information funds, I am opening the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 delegates present at today's session. Of which 5 of the Bosniak people, 5 of the Croatian people, 4 of the Serb people. Mr. Zoran Spasojević announced his absence and justified it. For this session, I suggest the next agenda; please you get today's revised and updated agenda, it is placed on your benches and I will now read that new updated agenda. The first item of the agenda is 1. Answering Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system, first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Election Law, first reading, Proposer Election Commission, 5. Proposal for a law on freedom of religion and the legal position of the churches and religious communities of BiH, first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers, 6. Proposal for a law on the BiH Insurance Agency, first reading, proposal from the Council of Ministers, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, First Reading, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 8. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 9. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on Air Safety Cooperation of 13 December 1960, with amendments from 06 July 1970, 21 November 78, 12 February 81 and 27 July 1997, and the Protocol of 08 October 2003 on the accession of the European Community, Euro-control. Euro-control proposed by the BiH Presidency, 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement between BiH, the Central Bank of BiH and the European Community, proposed by the BiH Presidency, 2 11. The appointments of the Ombusmen for Human Rights of BiH, Proposing the BiH Presidency, 12. Proposal for a law on BiH's defence, first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law to the BiH Ministry and other bodies, first reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 14. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, first reading, Proposer, Council of Ministers. It's the agenda, and there's any objections to the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1474	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable House Presidency, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, representatives of the public, I just want to understand, Mr. Chairman, what made the difference between the proposals we received in writing a few days ago in the draft agenda and what you were now reading. If I have followed closely and understood, the draft agenda that we received earlier was that the 3rd item of the agenda of the BiH Defence Law, the first reading, and then the 4th draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, is 5. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Council of Ministers law. If I understand there's been some changes here, so I'd like to understand why.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1475	Here I go, I'm obliged to explain it. I'll explain. This morning, at the College of the House of Nations, we were also considering what is common always before the sitting, we have a College that I would say we are finishing and hitting the glazing of what we are going to do today, but there is one need in view of the seriousness of the situation, given the importance of these laws that we are having, during this session, we have the opportunity to, given everything that happened at the House of Peoples about this People's Defence Act, to leave the possibility for the House of Representatives, to leave the possibility of negotiating this session on this agenda, on these points of the agenda that they had in my opinion, so now I am going to say my own opinion quite a difficult epilogue at this session of the House of Parliamentary Assembly and we think that somewhere before the end of working time we will succeed in these consultations to agree, that we still try to pass this law at this house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1476	I thank you for the explanation. I just want to say the next one. First of all, I think this law is extremely important and I think that it should be discussed. And on the other hand, I want to say that we from our club are ready to discuss this law and that it normally enters the procedure as planned as part of the agenda. And we don't think there's any reason to postpone. 3 Next, we believe that there is sufficient constitutional basis in the existing Constitution of BiH that this law can be discussed and can be decided without any, any need for the so-called transfer of jurisdiction and the last, if that is the only reason and if this is the way and way to get the law, then we can talk about waiting, but we think it would be good to say that you as chairman state the reasons why these changes were proposed. So we feel that this law is extremely important, and I believe that as far as we're concerned, we can talk about it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1477	Thank you very much. Here I have to say that during today's meeting of the RS Assembly that will have this law on the agenda and I must admit this, that we expect the RS, the Republika Srpska Assembly, to adopt today this law, or constitutional changes, and that we, that we will bring, will be relieved by the situation of representatives, or delegates of the Serbian people, that they also vote for this law. Here's what I'd like to tell you as soon as possible. And I think this home, and this one, should have enough understanding for all situations in BiH. Normally with the goal of adopting all projects, all legislative projects that are beneficial to BiH and all the peoples in BiH. Here, thank you, I hope Mr. Čengić that you are satisfied with this answer and that is our real situation, that is our reality, and that is what we need to have understanding. Thank you very much. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1478	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, In order to avoid confusion, delegates from the order of the Serbian narration know the importance of adopting this law, they know the importance of the effort and the work of the Defence Reform Commission, which our representatives were in, but we have asked for an amendment and an addition to the agenda for the following reasons. First, as the constitutional basis is asked about the adoption of this law, and we found the constitutional basis in the political will in BiH, and in Article 3. 5a), which says entities can agree on the transfer of powers and that the BiH state is taking over the powers. For a verse of reason, what happened yesterday, in order for it not to happen today, we await the views and conclusions of the National Assembly, which were necessary and necessary. I am not going to say now who made the wrong move, which is necessary, necessary for delegates in the order of the Serbian people, so that we can vote properly and in quality for the law that we should have at BiH level. For this reason, we have even proposed to the chairman if we receive the necessary consent and decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that we conclude this law today in the first and second readings, that even delegates from the order of the Serbian people submit two amendments on the basis of a business procedure, in order to have the same text of the law in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to shorten the procedure for setting up a commission to coordinate the text of the law. So all the wishes and wills we've shown are co-operation, but we're asking you to make this move just for the reason that we get to the final law. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1479	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović, Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1480	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, dear journalists, On this item of the agenda, i.e. in the debate on the agenda, I would like to propose one item of the agenda, since I have exhausted the possibility of intervention through the delegate issue of this home, and the authorities of the Federation of BiH, given that nothing has been done over the past time to resolve the issue of which I wish to bring about a resolution and which is becoming increasingly complex, under Article 114. 2 Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I demand that the House of Peoples adopt the next resolution on the right of pensioners to return to the Federation of BiH. I have attached the text of that statement with an explanation and I ask that it be included in the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1481	Thank you very much. Any more objections. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1482	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Milojević's proposal, or the Serbian People's Club, to include this resolution. I have a little doubt here, but for the best of intentions, we only got the text half an hour ago, and someone ten minutes ago, and I think this is an important question. And because it is an important question it will have and will have certain significant consequences because it implies providing certain funds also means I understand it at least so, that the same if it is not resolved for pensioners in the RS area. And that's why I think it would be good to think that today when we got this text, we could study it and leave it for a while so that we could take a stand on this text. But what I'm saying is, I'm just saying for the very reason that I want to talk about this in quality and based on the arguments and all the consequences that this resolution will have in its application, that is, it will be binding in some sense that the authorities and the entity institutions will then, and perhaps BiH, do everything and ensure that such a resolution is implemented. And so I suggest that today, we just get to know each other and that we have this resolution on ourselves, and that we postpone this resolution for the next session, because I don't know who's ready to plead on one important issue and question in my opinion, without studying this document and everything that this document later carries in its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1483	Thank you, Mr. Jukić, Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1484	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, I, of course, agree basically with the opinion of my colleague Jukić, but I would like to supplement this proposal a little bit. We have a motion for an extremely important resolution ahead of us. 5 Resolutions that address an extremely significant issue. A question affecting a significant number of BiH citizens in both entities. And I think the House of Peoples should talk about it, but it needs to discuss it in a competent way even after all the necessary information, arguments and facts, in order to make final decisions. The resolution calls for certain decisions of the Court of Human Rights, calls for certain statistics, which is quite understandable. I don't think it's really possible to discuss today the resolution that contains this capacity of importance. The Rules of Procedure shall, of course, provide for these opportunities and in Article 114 of our Rules of Procedure, provide that each delegate may submit a resolution, but that the House of Nations may decide whether that resolution goes to the competent Commission, so that it follows the commission phase and comes to the House of Peoples or that this House of Peoples is immediately discussed. By referring to this member of the Rules of Procedure, then, 114th member of the Rules of Procedure, we have two options. If the motion for a resolution were to target this procedure on the Commission and to consider it at the House after the Commission, which would make the necessary assumptions that this is being discussed competently. If the promoter is not in favour of this initiative, I therefore propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the House of Peoples make such a decision, and that my proposal would be to refer this resolution to the committee responsible and then consider the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1485	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Goran Milojević, wants to talk more as a promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1486	Dear colleagues, I thank you for the seriousness with which you have accepted this initiative and here I understand what Mr. Jukić and Mr. Genjac have said, and here I will use my right to propose, so I will refer this motion for a resolution to the competent committees of the House of Nations and expect it to mean that, in accordance with this procedure, we will discuss this resolution at the next session of the House of Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1487	Thank you very much, here I now believe that Mr Goran Milojević has rerouted his proposal to the committees and that we will agree that the commissions are working on this process and that they will come out with this, in front of the House of People, and only then to put this on the agenda. I think we are now, so who's to say right now who's for this proposal? We need to formulate him and he's going to the next, one of the next sessions. Namely, the next session of this House of Peoples. So unanimous. I'll put the agenda to the vote now. Who's for the proposed agenda? So, unanimously, Čengić, I'm sorry. Who's restrained? So 13 for, 1 for abstention. So no one's against it. Thank you very much. The agenda was adopted with these results of the vote. Thank you. 6 So, let’s move to the agenda and the first item of the agenda is as usual, Ad.1. Parliamentary questions and parliamentary answers, please. Answer the delegates' questions and delegates' questions. Do we have anyone here who answers his word? Here you go, Mr. Milojević. I'm pardon, Jukić, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1488	I have one question that has more questions in it, but it's all just one question. It was addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Resolution Ministry. Why has the BiH Council of Ministers not granted a license to a third DSM operator so far? What are the reasons? And when will he do that? I will explain very briefly, because there is no Registrar Minister here, nor anyone else from the ministry, but it is known, however, that for a long time in BiH, there are two ĐSM operators, and in the established programme and policy in this area it is planned to assign, respectively, a license to be granted to a third operator. This has never been done before. I know, and you all probably know that there are certain misunderstandings I would say, on this point, but I believe that all these misunderstandings can be resolved parallelly and that the license to the third DSM operator should be granted as soon as possible. I'll also say the reasons why you assign as soon as possible. It is well known that the vast majority or all of the citizens of this country have the same goal, and that is the same expectation that the services of the GMM mobile phone operator are as high as possible and as cheap as possible. In order for this to happen, competition is needed. The competition between the two is competition between the two, the competition between the three is greater competition and I am sure that it guarantees a better quality of service and guarantees lower prices, and therefore I believe that it is logical that the Council of Ministers, in as short a period as possible, grant the license to the third GM operator, and thus executes its demarcated policy in this area, that we have a work permit, or authorised three ĐSM operators, so that this third person working without this license would not work outside the law, but work in accordance with the law. And that all the other problems and ambiguities that exist are solved as quickly as possible. Of course, I don't want to talk here at all, and I'm not saying what the price of this license is going to be. We've already made certain moves and jobs and on this part, we have a few estimates. However, if these assessments are not considered to be high-quality, let the new evaluations of the value of this licence be done, but I do not think there is any reason not to grant a third license to a third GM operator as soon as possible, and then really achieve what we all want, which is that we have good and healthy competition on our market, which will certainly guarantee better services and lower prices of these services that I will tell you along the way are one of the highest in Europe. I don't think that's realistic and that our goal is to make them better and cheaper.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1489	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Spajić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1490	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you here, I have before me an emissary question, which means an analysis of the questions asked and answered. And here there is not one question that has been asked in front of the Croatian Club is the issue and the problem of Arizona. Let me remind you, I learned this two days ago, that in the last term of the ninth month, the question was asked. It's been set up in this session, and here's the third time that's been asked the same question. I'd pray that this one, that someone really doesn't avoid the answer to this question. Well, what it's like, but to answer that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1491	Thank you very much, Spajić. I'll take your word for it now. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, I have here from above, and you have all received a review of the delegation issues which have been referred by the delegates of this House to the institutions of the Government, i.e. according to the Council of Ministers and Institutions of BiH and the analysis stand like this. So far, and in this analysis, it has been left out by some chance this, this delegate question, which was referred to by Mr Spajić. I'm sorry now, it's a mistake in the clerk. Come on, I'll say it. However, we have 23 delegate issues this parliament has asked. Of these 23 delegate questions, we have 14 answers, and of those 14 answers, four MPs are dissatisfied with the answers, which they have received to their questions, 8 and 9 parliamentary questions of, some since September, and in November and December, they were left without an answer. I am behind this pay phone, and from this place, I draw criticism from what these questions refer to, and they have not been answered, and I find this extremely important, because these MPs are nevertheless representatives of the people, yet they are representatives of some, some electoral bodies, and these MPs on the ground should give an answer to people who are behind them, who have chosen them, and they have re-elected those people in executives, and I think that these people in executives are obliged to respond to parliamentary questions neatly, in quality and in time. Therefore, I ask your consent, that we refer this review of parliamentary issues to the institutions of the system and that we really ask them for a very serious approach to delegate issues, normally to ask them our questions. If you don't mind, I'll be asking you behind this pay phone to give me the consent to direct this and request very serious answers. Do you agree with that? I'd like you to raise your hands and say you agree. Thank you. So I'm going to find out that we've agreed to this proposal, and I'm going to refer this to the system's institutions on Monday. 8 Thank you very much. Do we have any further parliamentary questions? So this part of the agenda we've exhausted and finished. The colleagues who answered and asked questions thank you. Now is the next item of the agenda, Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples you all got. Do we have any objections to the record? We don't have any, so thank you very much. Do we accept the record? Who's in? Thank you very much. To realize that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 13th session. Thank you very much. The next item of the agenda, i.e. the 3rd item of the agenda, Add.3. Proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system, first reading, a proposal by the Council of Ministers to see if anyone from the Council of Ministers. So here's a colleague from the Council of Ministers who's gonna get us into this law a little bit. You've all been reading and here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1492	Well, first of all, we need to start from the fact that BiH's strategic commitment is to build a market economy. Reforms are being carried out in this direction, especially in the financial sector. The key reform of the fiscal sector is certainly the adoption of the Law on the indirect taxation system. The aim of this law is to achieve the country's macro-economic stability and fiscal sustainability. This law provides for the institutional and organisational offices to be indirect taxes, a system of indirect taxes. These taxes include customs duties, excise duties or excise duties and existing taxes on the marketing of products and services, or future value added tax. What further can be said for this law, what he brings. It brings, out of it, fiscal sovereignty and the financial sovereignty of the state for indirect taxes. It is foreseen to form this law is regulated, the Directorate for indirect taxation is formed with headquarters in Banja Luka 4 branches and outposts. Furthermore, the principle of this indirect taxation administration is foreseen to be the director appointed by the Council of Ministers and the Direct Taxation Administration by the Governing Board shall act as three experts and shall be designated by the Ministers of the Entity and State Ministry of Finance, and shall initially be a foreigner of the first chairman of the Management Board. There are certain amendments to be made to the soul, so there will most likely be possibilities for both. I wouldn't have anything else for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1493	Thank you very much. Here's what you got, I want to say here now that the Commission adopted, this was on the Commission. You will have a report from the Commission, let me just finish, adopted 3 amendments that have been set up as an integral part of the law, that is in accordance with Article 89. The amendments were submitted by Velimir Jukić and Zoran Spasojević. The House of Representatives at the 23rd session held on 20.11.2003 adopted a law with 14 amendments, an apology with 16 amendments. Here's what I want to tell you about this law yet. Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1494	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the College, fellow delegates, Mr. Ministers, we are on the Commission, since there is no Mr. Spasojevic, the President of the Commission, discussed and just now Mr. Pamuk said that we have adopted three amendments. But here is the report on the proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in BiH in the basic legislative process, the commission phase of the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in accordance with Article 79. 2 Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also discussed the draft law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, which was delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers on 09.10.2003, in a parliamentary procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed at its 13th session the consistency of the proposal with the BiH Constitution, and delivered its opinion that the proposal for a law on an indirect taxation system in BiH is in line with the BiH Constitution. Members of the Commission unanimously accepted the proposed principles of the bill. The amendment to the draft law on the indirect taxation system in BiH was tabled by delegates Zoran Spasojević nine amendments and Mr Velimir Jukić seven amendments, of which the Commission accepted three, which became an integral part of the text of the proposal as follows. Amendment I, which has been accepted in Article 11, first position, is deleted words -five and adds words-four. In the same article, the second term is deleted - five-year-old and the word - four-year-old is added. Amendment II, which is accepted in Article 28, the first row 2 item is deleted – not the fourth row is deleted – the first row of the word is deleted – five instead of the word is written to the fourth. Amendment III to Article 4 is amended and reads. The administration is responsible for implementing laws relating to indirect taxation in BiH, as well as a policy established by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the proposal for a Management Board and Law and other regulations which regulate the collection and distribution of revenue from indirect taxation in BiH, and the Commission of the Bill with Amendments, which have become an integral part of the text of the bill, points to a further parliamentary procedure towards the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1495	Here after the Commission's report, I open the debate and who answers the question? I don't see any candidates. So I'm going to put it right now, so I'm going to put the law to the vote in the first reading normally with these amendments that are an integral part of this law adopted by the Commission. 10 Who Is For This Law in First Reading? and the amendments adopted by the Commission, so who's in favour? So unanimous. Thank you very much. So I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You have received a report from the Commission responsible. You saw that, did you, and now here's what I suggest, here's who answers the word? Well, here are the amendments. Here's Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1496	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we should now plead whether or not we will have a discussion in the second reading. And that's why I came out to say that the Serbian People's Club of Delegates believes that today we should not conduct a second reading debate, given the large number of amendments that have not passed on to the Commission, and the possibility that delegates should re-invest these amendments and defend them on a second reading. We don't think we should be having a second reading debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1497	Thank you very much, we heard Mr. Radovanović's discussion. Who's next to the word? Please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1498	As far as I'm concerned, I know that Mr Zoran Spasojević had amendments on the Commission that were not accepted and that he forwarded them to the House again. So procedurally, it's okay we can discuss them now again.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1499	Thank you very much. I also think that this, that there is no reason probably and cannot be serious reasons not to continue to discuss this law in the second reading, since Mr and Jukić and Spasojević also forwarded their amendments with which they have been discussed at Parliament in the Assembly, with which they are dissatisfied with the Commission's answers, with the Commission's position, here to be discussed by the Assembly. I think it would be a good idea to continue the debate on this law and try to adopt it the way other colleagues and the other House adopted it. I don't see the reason, the serious reason why we would be in a position right now, is that we would be in a position to postpone this law, to delay its adoption, but my Bog, here we are. And I would pray, I would really ask the delegates of the Serbian people to think a little bit more and try to bring this law to an end and finish it, because I don't see any reason to have it, to wait for a while and to wait for something. Do we have any further debaters? If we're going to hear another representative of the Serbian people, I would, I expect to have an understanding of, what is now and reporting for the word, please. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1500	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vinko Radovanović, the deputy club chief, Mr. President, and he came out and said the position of the Serbian delegates club, we're not even unprofessional, we're not even serious, we're not little children, we've adopted here once that the law doesn't go according to an emergency procedure, that it goes according to a shortened procedure, today we think we've done enough, that there are a number of quality amendments that we've received this morning or yesterday, that we need to work them out until the next second reading, and there's no need to convince ourselves. We have done the first reading in quality, the amendments of Mr. Jukić and Mr. Spasojević, whom he is not today, which is our colleague. Obviously, he explains them, not maybe one of us, from the club, and we go to the regular or this shortened procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1501	Thank you, and I'm sorry if you understand that I've taken you unseriously, it's actually just my stressed desire to try to adopt these system laws as quickly as possible and to finish our work as possible and as high-quality as possible. Thank you. I'll put it to the vote now. Who's in favour of having a discussion about this law in the second reading? Who's restrained? One, two, three, four, five. Who's against it? Four, thank you very much so, is the law in the second reading we'll postpone for some next session, for the next session, thank you very much and that's why we did it. The fourth item of the agenda is Add.4. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Election Law, first reading, proposed by the Election Commission to the House of Peoples at its 13th session on 29th 10th year, adopted a request for the law to be considered under a shortened procedure, i.e. Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives adopted the law in the proposed text at its 20th session on 13th 10th. This is the first reading of the law, Article 99. You have received the law as a report from the Commission responsible. The Commission adopted four amendments, which became an integral part of the law. Here's to having a discussion. Do we have a representative of the Commission who will say something? Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1502	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered the proposal for a law on these four articles as well as four amendments, which have become an integral part of the text. We suggest that here is the House to consider and accept this bill with the proposed amendments. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1503	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Here you have heard the Commission's report, so I'm putting the law in the open debate is it according to this law? Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1504	I was one of these MPs who initiated these amendments, but I'm not quite sure that this three-day deadline here is good. I think it's too short. It is that it takes so much up-to-date or it could have been seven days. Here's the thing, what's actually done isn't the point, but it is. So it can be a problem, and if we have an understanding, then it won't be a problem either. So I understood, and while I was proposing this amendment or co-proposer, we were talking about a seven-day period, which is quite understandable and acceptable to me, and three days I think is an unreal short term.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1505	We've begun to discuss this law whether it is. Mr Filipović, this is an objection to the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1506	Just for a little while, I have to defend the Commission's report. The amendments we accepted on the Commission, and it was unanimously agreed by the proposer of the amendment law whether or not the addition of the Electoral Law, Mrs Lidija Korać was present. In the Electoral Law, you will see that the deadlines are very short. It's a very operational matter. A few places mention exactly that three-day deadline. We have suggested that it be a week, but it has changed that deadline and put a three-day deadline on the proposal from the Election Commission, and I ask that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1507	Thank you very much. Here's Jukić, you heard the Commission's answer. Here's the debate, who's answering. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1508	I don't want to de-commit at all. I also know that the Rules of Procedure are foreseen, so within the Rules of Procedure, it was necessary to react to this amendment, again by amendment. I didn't do it, I'm aware of it and here because my intervention in terms of us information here if we have the will here and if we think it's logical, and I think it is, then we know that together with this conclusion we can change it to be as it was in the proposal for these amendments. But I'm aware that in this sense very little, to insist on this, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to break it, but I want to warn you that the meaning was, it had the full meaning of that proposal that was within seven days. And that's why it can only change this home now, so this one, right now in this session, and there are other ways, because I'm saying I haven't been to the 13th time amendment to open this amendment to the Commission's authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1509	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1510	Dear colleagues, I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and, of course, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is this, has a position, has a report with the Constitutional and Legal Commission to be reviewed. But in this case, I think we should make an effort to make a decision that's in the capacity of the House. Indeed, the House can make a decision here to respect this thinking and thinking which I think is appropriate, because we, and on the Commission itself, have corrected this amendment that was in its original content, to submit, within an indefinite period, a statement by the delegates who, for whom the amendment is committed, so we have set that deadline of 3 days. I don't think he has to be a problem, but in some situations there may be a problem. And that's why I suggest that we make this, first conclusion that calling for new circumstances where there is a possibility of respecting new amendments in these circumstances, to accept this amendment and to submit it in the sense that number 3 is replaced by 7. So, not within three days, but in seven days. That would be my suggestion. That's one thing. And secondly, I think that, for the sake of record, this item of the agenda should be this one, because it says that the bill on amendments to the Election Law is the Proposer of the Election Commission. It seems to me that the Election Commission cannot be a proposing to this House, and that this should be treated here as a proposal from the Commission or from one of the delegates, because the Rules of Procedure set out the possible proposed law. So maybe there's a thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1511	Here's what I'm going to do about this. I'm asking you, Hasane, just the secretary to explain this right and this possibility of business.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1512	In the Electoral Law which is lex specialis, the Election Commission has the right to be a proponent of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1513	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Hasan Čengić is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1514	So, understanding the arguments both on the one hand and on the other, I join the idea and the proposal of Mr Jukić and the support given by Mr Genjac, that we agree here in the House to transfer this period of 3 days to at least 7 days, for very practical reasons, because no one puts himself privately on the list of any political party, but certain political parties are making lists, and of course it takes a certain time for consultation to make one consultation and to see what is more important 14 and more important, and given that the objective party deserves it, because it has received that mandate, then it is natural and someone who was on the list, then it is natural to give them the time of 7 days. It doesn't really change much, because it's more important than getting into a situation where we don't have the duplication that we have right now or the duality that a man sits in more places for us, and that's how he actually makes some confusion. My suggestion, therefore, is to respect these procedural arguments, but these actual arguments that we are going to meet this proposal to accept the amendment for 7 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1515	You got it, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1516	Very short. I mean, we're making a precedent now. We are making a precedent because, within the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure, the amendments were not affected by the amendments adopted. That's one thing. The second thing, we agreed with the applicant this three-day deadline. We can now put it from 3 to 7 days, so please the promoter and satisfy what Mr. Jukić is looking for and what Mr. Genjac supports. The thing is Home, so the Commission did its part of the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1517	I mean, I have to say this now is not, I'd like Mr Filipović as President of the Commission to understand that this is not an objection to the work of the Commission and this is simply let's just say some circumstance in which we have to, the new circumstance in which we have to react, I think rationally and clearly think that this proposal of Mr Jukić and the support of these people, and finally let your consent to what I know give us the right to try and adopt this, or to say that this is not about 3 days but 7 days. Let's do this one, that one. And I don't think it's bad and the Commission actually doesn't mind. Can I understand it that way and suggest it that way? Here I suggest this as a conclusion, so to accept all the amendments, it's only about the correction instead of three days for seven days. So, thank you very much, please, can we now say that with these remarks we accept this law in our first reading. Who's in? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. So this law was adopted in the first reading, unanimously. 15 I'm taking a break now. Here's what I suggest we move on to another reading. I suggest we make it clear if we're going to discuss this law in a second reading. Who's in? So unanimous. So, in this law on this law, there were no additional amendments, and I think here I am opening a debate and I have, uh, reported to anyone for discussion. Thank you very much. Who's in favour of adopting this law in a second reading? Thank you. So as far as I can tell, that's unanimous. Thank you very much. This law, please, is proposed, since different laws have been adopted in two Houses, I suggest we choose a committee that will comply and ask that the alignment be carried out as soon as possible. Here are the presidents of the MPs' clubs. I'd like to hear your suggestion. Mr. Šiljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1518	The club of delegates from the Serb people's commission to bring the text of the law mentioned, proposed Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1519	Thank you very much, so we agree, that Vinko Radovanović is a member, we vote in favour. Come on, she'll get it all together. Whoever suggests it in front of the Croatian people, Mr. Spajić suggests.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1520	In front of the Croatian Club of Representatives, I propose Mr Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1521	Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1522	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1523	You're rewarding me well.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1524	So Velimir Jukić is proposed in front of the Croatian Club, in front of the Bosniak Club Hilmo Neimarlija and here we hear a proposal for Bosniaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1525	In front of our club, I suggest Dr. Halid Genjac. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1526	Thank you very much, so in front of the Bosniak Club, we suggest Halid Genjac. Who's in favour of this being the committee of the House of Peoples? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Please, I'm taking a break until 2:00, and during that time, to take a break as far as anyone knows, until 2:00. Let's continue the 14th session of the House of Peoples, and it's the 5th item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The proposal for a law on freedom of religion and the legal position of the BiH church and religious communities, we are talking about the first-reading law You have also received the law and the report of the competent Commission. [[PAUZA]] The Commission adopted 12 amendments to this law, which became an integral part of the law. The House of Representatives adopted the law at its 22nd session on 7.11. in a second reading with 16 amendments. The Croatian People's Club submitted the first amendment in accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here I am opening a debate on the members of this law and here you are. Please, on the principles of this law, on its legal constitutional justification, etc. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1527	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers, just a few words, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has unanimously supported the principles of the proposed law and, considering the proposed amendments to this bill, adopted 12 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of this law. So the conclusion is to recommend the Constitutional and Legal Commission to this home, to accept this text of the law. And let me also be allowed one little suggestion, since we have one amendment that, after being successfully defended on the Commission, we have from the Croatian Representatives' Club, I would suggest that if we could consider this law in the second reading, that, at the same time, we know that the House of Representatives and in the second readings have adopted this law with 16 amendments, there will be a difference that we will immediately appoint the Commission to comply with this text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1528	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Is anyone answering for a discussion? Here's Mr. Hasan Čengić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1529	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions, representatives of the media, I believe that this law is important and, of course, a law that touches very sensitive issues of human freedom and human rights, everywhere in the world and here in BiH and here is particularly important and important because of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is acting historically and functioning by several religious communities and religious institutions, which are, by definition, different from the teachings that have been functioning for a very long time and have very well-established structures and, of course, the state is bound to regulate the rights that concern the functioning and activities. I'll be here maybe a little bit unexpected though maybe someone will object to why here and why now, just try to discuss a little about the title or the entrenchedness of this law. I find the name of the law unscathed, insufficiently profiled and something that will certainly not be able to withstand criticism, will not be able to endure criticism of the longer-term criticism of the public. Since this law is not imposed by the High Representative, it is not imposed by anyone, but by a single living need, I believe that if we do not agree on these suggestions today, we will probably have to discuss it in our mandate. Let me have a very short analysis. So, the title of the law is the bill of law or the Law on freedom of religion and the legal position of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First, let's stay in this first part or the Syntagma of freedom of faith. So, what does that mean about freedom of faith? Personally, I have the impression that this is a classic initiative from a time of communism in which communism felt that it had everything and that it ruled everything. That he is the owner of all things, both men and freedom, and therefore the freedom of faith. In this context, such a syntagma could be understood and could exist, not only ideologically and philosophically Marxistly, but even legally, contrary to any logic. In order to understand what I'm talking about, the question is, what in languages are all three languages using the concept of faith. And that is the most basic concept of all three of our languages, both in Bosnian and Serbian and Croatian, and there is no substitute for that word at all. Which means the word faith. Basically, it can have two fundamental meanings in our language. The first is the individual’s personal conviction on certain metaphysical issues, moral pirzips or some practice. So, personal belief. Can we decide freedom of personal conviction? Who can control a personal belief that is ultimately completely intimate. Which can be formally presented in any way. There's no such thing as a find, there's no history yet. She hasn't figured out a way to control her personal conviction. Behavior yes, but conviction no. The second meaning of the word faith is generally a set of ideas, principles, or regulations that express the cut off of world surveillance or a certain form of relationships with the world, which one 18, a significant number of people accepts as such. So, a set of ideas, or one of the world's supervisors. How can we discuss giving someone freedom, giving some worldview freedom as a pan? We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't give, we can't give, we can't give, we can't give, we can't give, we can't give, we can't give, we So this is obviously about a syntagma that was inherited from the last system and no one responded to it. It is very clear here that this is about the following, that we can discuss freedom of confession of faith or simply freedom of religion. That would be the right thing to do, and then that would reflect what we want to say. So that's just one thing that had to be taken care of and, of course, it wasn't right to come into this phase to talk about the House law, that unfortunately, it went through in another House, and that these things were not discussed in this way. If we had the strength to change the political and ideological system to each other's democratic and freedom systems, then it would have been quite and would have corresponded to the reality that we were counting on the name of this. Secondly, the second part of the Syntagma is the legal position of churches and religious communities. This is again about expressing the concepts that seem to me to be, so different concepts that are brought to the same level. If we wanted to express the meaning of the church as a special institution of the Catholic Church, Orthodox churches as individual institutions or specific and specific institutions, then obviously the law should have the title that it was a law on the legal position of the Islamic community, Orthodox churches, Catholic churches and other religious communities. If we wanted to express that. Otherwise, one other impression can be given here, that through the title, part of the title is the legal position of churches and religious communities, that churches are placed in a priority position and that at the same time majorises the position of the Islamic community, which has the largest number of members in this country. Since we are not a religious state, therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a religious state, is not based on the principles of any individual faith, then of course we should go the other way, which is that we give no one an advantage, nor that we may in any way majorize it. In this sense, it would be appropriate and appropriate that the second part of this term of this law is also the legal position of religious communities and institutions, taking care of the fact that the Catholic Church is a specific organization, that the Orthodox Church is a specific organisation and that they are precisely because they are specifically worn in their name by the church, so Catholic or Orthodox Church. In that sense, institutions are at the same time. So, they are exactly institutions, and in this sense one such name would certainly fully fit the real state of things and would give the position and impression and feeling of all religious communities, all religious community followers and all other citizens in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina that they were treated equally and that they were respected by their beacons regardless of whether they accept or do not accept any religion, whether they accept or do not accept any religious institution or organisation as their own. So, to conclude, I believe that the real name of this law was much more appropriate and that the Law on freedom of religion and the legal position of religious communities and institutions read. If there's a chance that we can change this, it would be good, if it doesn't exist, then this doesn't need to be given any political meaning. So I don't want to politicize here at all, not at all. I think it's clear from argument 19 that it's one reverse, just the other way around. So that we don't get into a situation where someone is politicizing with this law tomorrow, and that we don't come into a situation where tomorrow we feel that the state has graciously given freedom to the faith, therefore, which is inadmissible. There is nothing to be courteous about this country, especially in our Constitution in Article 2 paragraph 3g) it is said finely that human rights and freedoms are taken over, and in particular freedom of thought, conscience and faith. Therefore, it is a constitutionally guaranteed right that no state gives any charity or charity, by giving space, this is not about regulating what one will believe and how he will believe. It is primarily to regulate the behaviour of organised communities and institutions dealing with issues of faith and religious rituals and therefore, in this sense it should be called to answer all of this. I wouldn't talk about the content this time. I think it would be a good idea to find a way and way to name this law in the right way, to actually be equally accepted by everyone and to express the real state and character of our new Bosnian Herzegovina society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1530	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Limov answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1531	Dear Mr. President and Vice-President, esteemed colleagues, distinguished representatives and Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the professional services of the international community and public information funds, the adoption of the Law on the Freedom of Faith and the Legal Position of Churches and Religious Communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be passed in history after 27 years of the Law on the Position of the Religious Communities of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina of 1976. First of all, I would like to stress that I strongly support the adoption of this law and my conditionally stated critical thinking and the good part compatible with the thinking of my predecessor, the respected Mr. Čengić in the part where he spoke about the very title of the law can be found to be one step towards what he has suggested to me and it is that we actually pass the Law of Freedom of Religion or Religion. I had such an amendment and he unfortunately on the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not get the necessary majority, so he was not an integral part of this text we got. But as for me personally, I support it because it's not about whether I have freedom and the right to believe. It is a matter of every individual, me, and no one can forbid me, but the way I confess it can and should be regulated by certain rules, by law or by other regulations. Of course, I'm not sure that if we go from this to a termological guess with certain solutions in the law itself, or other words, I'm not sure whether those solutions are in line first, with the Constitution of BiH, and then with certain international conventions and other documents such as the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Declaration on the Rights of Persons belonging to national or ethnic religious and linguistic minorities, then the International Pact on 20 Civil and Political Rights and Optual Protocols of 66 and 89 in connection with this. Of course, it is not necessary in particular to stress that these documents are also an integral part of the BiH Constitution, so in this sense I appreciate that and in a termological sense, it would be good to comply with the provisions of our law with these documents. Therefore, although this text, at the very commission stage of the parliamentary procedure through the adoption of a number of amendments, including some that I have personally submitted, I would say significantly fixed, I am afraid not only because I have proposed but also other colleagues who have dealt with it have contributed to repairing the text, I am afraid that these individual solutions are not fully in line with the documents referred to above and above all by the BiH Constitution. It may seem less important to someone at first sight but the fact that in all the documents three words are constantly mentioned together, this warns that it would be worth considering and not single out just that one word. So I'm talking about faith and I'm starting with what's in the law itself. Of course, we can therefore come into conflict with certain solutions that are dominant primarily in democratic Europe. Personally, so I don't think there was any reason to stand down. What are my remarks about? I'm going to take them out on a tax scale like this. The proposal for the law in question only speaks of freedom of faith. And what about freedom of mind and conscience when he has already problems with the right Mr. Čengić. I remind you that in article 1. Annex VI, point 7 of the Dayton Peace Agreement, lists three freedoms of opinion, conscience and religion, then the second point 3 under g) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina discusses the right to freedom of opinion of conscience and faith. I also recall that the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 9 first requires that all quotes of people have the right to freedom of opinion, conscience and religion. So it's about religion and religion. In our bill of law, the central concept is therefore faith, or freedom of faith, as it is suggested. I repeat, as a human being, I am free to believe or not to believe, and it is a matter of my thoughts, my consciences, and not by accident these three words of thought, conscience and religion, or faith, or religion always referred to together. Of course, I wonder why we only do the law in one of those freedoms. That's the problem now. Or we'll write some other law, some regulations about these other freedoms. Why not unify it and make an appropriate legal solution in a whole way. Secondly, in the second article, the view of the third bill is given the definition of church and religious community. And according to it, I quote: "the communities of the institution and the organizations of the believers established in accordance with their own regulations, traditions and practices, which have recognised the legal capacity and which are included in the register of churches and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina," the quote concluded. Therefore, churches and religious communities are not those who have subjectivity, but are those who are recognised by the state of subjectivity of course. In the earlier law, the state did not recognise the subjectivity of the religious community, but it obtained it on the day of its application, the submission of applications for establishment. It turns out now that we're making a 21 that's more restrictive than what we had in the old 76-year-old law. I don't think that's good. I even think that the state should not at all try to define what a religious community is because it is difficult for the theologians to agree on a generally acceptable definition. Third, in article 8nd, the law confirms the continuity of legal personality, so-called historically founded churches and religious communities in BiH, the Serbian Orthodox Church and Rome – the Catholic Church, the Islamic and Jewish communities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, this is an example of so - called recognized religious communities. In this regard, we need to know that by empowering and privileged historical religious communities, we are deviating ourselves from the world standards by which everything, not just some religious communities, must be equal before the law. Since all the so-called historically founded communities are taxed, it means that the rest are not historical or that they are historically unfounded. I mean, I'm putting this as a problem, and I'm not questioning at all, and we can define that, but we have to make sure that it's a matter of whether it's a world standard, even though it's true that we're passing the law to ourselves. So we can decide how it is. The fourth Article 18th paragraph provides that the new church or religious community can establish 300 full-time citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say, this is a very discreet and problematic solution. Namely, religion is not a matter of geographical distribution or the number of sequences, but rather a lesson, a mission, a value and a worldview. The exact value and the worldview are not measured by the number of supporters. The truth is, in other transition countries, we have a solution to 50 to several thousand founders. Looks like there's a copying section coming up with this. Let me make a little joke. In view of this, this solution can be said that it is a real happiness that, for example, Isus Krist and Abul Kasim Ibn Abdulah Muhamed did not live in this time of ours, for they would probably not be able to register because at first they certainly did not have 300 supporters, followers, believers as you will. Why they forget to say the words of the Founder, which say where two or three are in my name, and I'm with them. Isus began with 12 apostles, and even Muhamed had no 300 followers when he began his thinking. Otherwise, it is not bad to know, some here know better than I do that to maintain worship in various religions requires between 3 and 11 believers and not 300. What about religious freedoms if the law favors the historical foundation of other churches and religious communities, then I accept only that solution that balances everything in rights, obligations, duties, and in this respect I think one such solution should be considered. Because at the end of the day, any discrimination against a history teaches us well about it, returns negatively or reflects. The fifth, not an appropriate rod between the state and political parties and religious communities, can be an effective element of political and national mobilization, but in complex states such as BiH, it can also be an apple of discord. Religious prularism and an indicator of freedom in society. Mahatma Gandi once said, religions are different roads leading the same destination. The demand of modern society is that we don't conflict with those whose religions we wouldn't want to be followers. It is therefore best to enable every church and religious community to act, provided that 22 does not harm anyone, that is to say, that this is done in a concise manner by the Constitution, by the laws and standards set out in the international conventions which I have mentioned only some of them. If we will, and it is imperative for us, to build a plural society, then we must seek the affirmation of the world's state, which means, in addition to the rest, the separation of the state from the religious communities. The state itself must lead such a policy towards all religious communities, which will protect religious pluralism. And in the end, of course by bringing this out, I didn't want to question just our activity in the process of passing the law. I believe that he will be passed today, regardless of what I know there are no ideal laws, so probably even though we bring him in as suggested, I personally am in favour of, that even in other readings we do today, giving us the opportunity to coordinate certain things with each other in the next period and with what we are going to hear and in today's debate, and I think that not only does this law need us, but it is one of those elements that actually represents our step towards europeanising the BiH state and it is understood that as it personally concerns me for such a step, I, by the way, am giving my vote. So whether or not any of these elements will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1532	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here's the discussion and Mr. Lim's opinion, if anyone else would like to come forward. He's not answering. I now have to look together a little bit like this, if there is a need to make a statement about how we heard from the discussion that the name of the law itself is changing, or if we think that this law, with a title like this, should be adopted, so that in some subsequent period, there are people who understand this issue a little bit better, along with the Council of Ministers and together with some people who have dealt with this law, who try to make changes and supplement this law and that we are officially again in one Assembly, that is, to both House and to discuss it. The discussions and Čengić and Lim convinced me that honestly this law could and some things, come on, I will now say in this very philosophical approach, and then in this one, practically solves some things much better. But at this point, there is one need for us to have the law and that these religious institutions, whether they have certain provisions, are legal provisions so that they can work, that is, to know their relationship in society or what the state is like, allows them what the state allows them to do, and gives them the right to observe these religious duties. Here I am, I'm always having a dilemma right now. Are we going to set that up, if we're going to go to the adoption of a law with this title, and let's say that there's a need to do this to make changes and supplement, to go into changes to the law, or we're going to vote on these new titles. But I would now ask the debaters here at the beginning, with theirs truly respecting, that we go to the law in the title as it is said, as it has been said, and that people experts and people who understand this problem get involved and try to find quality solutions. 23 So here I will be free to ask who is for us to adopt this law in the first reading, as proposed. Who's in? Thank you very much. I would say, I find that we unanimously adopted, pardon Čengić, you are against whether, abstention, pardon. So 12 for, 1 abstention. Whoever's 13 for and 1 abstention, 13 for and 1 abstention, good. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1533	I, of course, like all my colleagues, want to have this law. I fully agree that he is important, and what Mr. Limov said is largely on the lines of what I was talking about. So that we don't have a further debate today, and since obviously we agree, but since we're between this carrot and the beating, that we have the law and that we're changing what's wrong, it might be good, that now that we've already adopted the law in the right reading, we're going to take a position that after the second reading, we're going to vote and the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is in charge, that we're going to prepare proposals for the corrections of what's being said and that it doesn't get in the way of learning itself, but that actually really determines the position that it is. So, instead of having a debate now to put the Council of Ministers in charge that, within some reasonable time, this one, initiates an initiative to amend and supplement this law, and I believe that Mr Limov, I personally and do not know that other colleagues will be ready to participate in this, in order to get really one law that would be even more quality than we have right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1534	Thank you very much, and it's a wish I think all MPs have quality laws. Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. So here I suggest we move on to another reading, to the discussion in the second reading and try to pass this law. You have received the Commission's report again. The Commission adopted amendments by Halid Genjac, Tomislav Lim and the Croatian delegates' Club, which have become an integral part of the text of this law. Is anyone answering for a word? The amendment was submitted by the Croatian People's Delegation Club. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr Filipović, please, Mr Filipović, you are
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1535	Gentlemen and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is, in practice, an unprocessed amendment to the Constitutional and First Commission, and since the House of Representatives adopted an identical amendment at its last session, we suggest that, therefore, in Article 5.5(2)f), the following text is added to the word "Community" as set out in Amendment 1. This will reduce the number of non-compliant articles, and at the same time, as it was adopted in the House of Representatives on 16 amendments, it should also form a good committee to bring the two texts into line. We all got it. I'll read it. Therefore, in Article 5(2)f), following the word 'Community', the point is placed, deleted, and the text is added: 'Neither existing such association, established without the relevant church authority, can stand without relevant approval'. I think it might be necessary, perhaps, to say two or three words, which is why this amendment is proposed. It is proposed because we had a phenomenon, and I have consulted and asked Mr. Neimarli, who extremely from both feet on the ground when it comes to this area, when it comes to the Islamic religious community, we have phenomena in the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church in the Islamic religious community, when it comes to the Wahhabi that appear on their own outside the institutions of the Islamic religious community, I hope that I have truly conveyed this, what Mr Neimarlija told me. If I was wrong to let myself, I immediately apologize, but the pixel of creating some associations of self-called organizations that act on behalf of the church of one and the other, they are explicitly expressed, to mention only some that happen. The codes and rules of conduct and the rules of canonical law are not respected, the supreme church authority comes to a rough stage, there are certain church facilities being built, there are crises from uninvited, next to the bishop who is dominant, there are some other persons who present themselves as such, sharing a saccarment of crisis that is not valid under church regulations, etc. To prevent this, here, the operation of such associations, without relevant church authorities, would practically be disabled. Such an amendment, with this explanation, has been accepted in the House of Representatives. I ask this home to accept this amendment too, so that we have the same form of this text in both home and home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1536	We heard Mr Filipović. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1537	Dear Presidency, fellow delegates, guests, Honorable colleague Filipović mentioned me in the context of this amendment, which did not pass on to our constitutional and legal committee, and was adopted at the House of Representatives, encouraged me, however, to come out and say a few words that I, perhaps, should have spoken in the previous part of the debate on this law, so that I might then come to some of my own determinations in the wake of the proposed amendment. I would remind you that the old civilized peoples have already discovered, in fact, a man as being a community, and this is a striking testimony from Aristotle's claim, that a man who is either Bog or an animal is on one side and on the other side, that at that classical time of this known history, they have also found or discovered their researchers that they are possible human communities without a letter, without walls, without written memory, without 25 walls, cities, fortifications, but that they are not possible, or have never found a community without temples. So on this basis, of course, they defined man as being a community and being a founding religion, not simply a belief, but a belief, but a belief that has its own establishment. They also found that faith as belief cannot be imposed and we know, of course, trouble with this old discovery through history, which has been marked by the uninterrupted efforts to impose people's beliefs and the prices that have been paid about it, and, in this respect, I would remind you that, in fact, in fact, this is a place where this, obviously, should be said, basically all of these modern human rights and the struggle for human rights and affirmation of human freedoms and rights, is the initial struggle for the exercise of the right to free faith and in this are the victims that people have suffered, and who have been willing to sacrifice, defending their beliefs. I remind you of this, from this, which, at a time when, we know the implications of this struggle, the prices paid to human victims, but also the value of fluids with tolerance, pluralism and with all these systems of civil, human, political and other freedoms and rights, through which, in fact, today, the fate of humanity is determined. But I would remind myself, in this context of the fact that when a rule was in force in Europe whose country of one and faith, in this BiH, there were three religious communities, which were conflicting with one another, tried to subharm one another, but they supported, interfered, intertwined and existed both the Church of the Bosnian and Catholic Church and the Orthodox Church. With the coming of smania, this prularism is not stifled, it is not destroyed, but to a certain extent, I would say qualitatively improved and the community eventually joined the community of Jevrej, as we all know well this experience of religious prularism and from a time when, indeed, the religious communities fought against each other, trying to subjugate each other completely, undermining themselves older than all those victims that Europe suffered until it came to, simple knowledge that faith cannot be imposed, or that the faith it imposes is not worth objectively. A man can confess in a way that he does not believe in, only confession is worthless and when it is established. I have the need to repeat in the foundations of all these rights and the fight for human rights and freedoms, European with all these currents and important significant results, which determine the fate of modern humanity stand, therefore, the definition of these rights and the election of these rights, and they are elected when the state, in fact, is, when the state in its, to say, a rise to the civic determination gave, or to ensure the right to confess faith. In this regard, we are, in fact, confirming by this one-sided law the practice which has been here for centuries, broken, of course, but the fact that it has existed for centuries, we confirm one practice, which is the ultimate civilizational achievement of modern Europe and the modern world and in that confirmation, here I just want to say a few words concerning this amendment, and also concerning the discussion of distinguished colleagues Čengić and Lim. Namely, in our language, however, when we say faith in this sense in which that word is included as a name and in the name of the law, it means belief in the meaning of its content, it means this founding determination in the sense that it also has its own temple institutions, etc. and implies the community of believers, so the elemental meaning or the first general reading of the name is both the title and the title, it was obviously the first ones of this law, and this reminds you, the members of the 26 Interreligious Council of BiH and the special value, the other laws that we make in relation to the other laws that we make, in fact, to say the first proposal, or the draft of this law made up by people who are ultimately interested in legal regulation of their institutional action and work and position in the state and in society and, regardless of all the more severe shortcomings and I don't know of any technical deficiencies, which will be possible in time, but only initiating this law and the fact that as a driver of this law, representatives of historical churches and religious communities appear. For us, there is something that should bind us, I am sure that it obliges us, and that it also encourages us to think productively so that it would be very good if in other areas of our social life and political life, of course, when we regulate laws, we would be able to get proposals or draft laws from people who, above all, are concerned that the laws do not know which sector, let me say, some economic business, to give us or initiate their adoption and give us the first material, people who are existentially interested and who are most directly concerned. On the other hand, therefore, it is necessary to respect the fact that representatives of the religious communities have agreed with us, after a long time, of course, after the long consensus on both the title and the content of the law itself. However, as regards the observations, which have been made, which I, in principle, fully support and which as a man who is and how interested in the values of civil society or civil society, I maximumly respect, such as the observations of a respected colleague of Lim and which could also refer to, which give to a certain extent and reasons why we should not be in favour of this amendment, which prevents the functioning of independent religious associations, etc. which appear at the expense of the existing so-called historical churches and religious communities, said that in principle there is nothing, I am not against, on the contrary, alone for these values for their maximum respect, but I would like to remind you of the fact that these values of civil society in context need to be known also in countries developed by this democratic tradition. All have the right both in France and Germany to provide rights to BiH citizens with this law. But believe me, with the rights of constitutional religions are very different defined in both Western and European countries, and this law is in no way below the standards that this tradition of countries with a long-standing democratic tradition already involves limiting the fact that these new ones are working or, let's say, new associations that would be called upon, calling on the religion they have the right to call on, but using forms of community, the institutional community, which have already been achieved on our occasions, they are, in fact, distorting something or questioning a single order of things that we already have in other countries, believe me. Believe me, I think for my part, there is no reason not to accept this proposal, which on behalf of Croatian delegates has been presented by fellow Filipović, which restricts the right to form a structure at the expense of existing religious communities, using the rights that are already defined within these communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1538	Thank you, Mr. Hilmo. I call on Mr. Šiljegović. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1539	Mr. Chairmans, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Serbian People, since the proposal of this law has been carried out by the Interreligious Council and brought it into line and that we may have one professional lecture from Mr. Neimarlija, suggests that the law be considered in another reading. We also accept that the amendment in Article 5(2)f) puts a decimal behind the words of the community and adds the text "no existing such association, established without the competent church authority, can exist without such competent approval. Thirdly, we also accept Mr Čengić's conclusion, which will go towards the Council of Ministers and so as not to go out again, as we will have to form a commission to comply with the text of the law, we propose Mr Radović nadeti to the commission of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1540	Thank you very much. Here, we heard Mr. Šiljegović. Is there, therefore, a vote that the remarks made by Mr., or the amendment, of Mr. Filipović, as he put it, and who he is. Who's for Mr Filipović's amendment? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Čengić, we didn't read you in this whole thing. We suggest we vote in favour of the law as a whole with these amendments. Who's in? So unanimous. I would like to put to the vote Mr Hasan Čengić's proposal to conclude that the Council of Ministers will, when appropriate, include in the proposed amendment, improvement, namely the text of the amendments to this law, including the title of course. Who's up for this proposal? Anybody got any abstentions? Do you mind? Thank you, therefore, unanimously. Here's to suggest since we passed the law in a different text, Šiljegović proposed a candidate from the Serb people's order. We expect a candidate from the Croatian people. Here you go, ISpajić hook you up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1541	In front of the Croatian club in this commission, Ilija Filipović is proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1542	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Osman Brka. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1543	I suggest we have Mr. Neimarlija's club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1544	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. So, we do, we heard the candidate's proposal. Who's for this committee? So unanimous. There's no need to go any further. Thank you very much. We're done with this agenda. Ad.6. The proposal for a law on the Agency. We heard a colleague. Can we cross over now to make this concession to move to item 8 of the agenda and give... Ad.8. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova The report of the committee responsible has been received. The House of Representatives has given consent to ratification. Here, we have a colleague from the Council of Ministers Tošić to tell us, bring out the competent commission of pardon. I thought you were the one calling in person. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1545	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At yesterday's 12th session, the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy discussed the proposal for this resolution and, since it is a common resolution on trade, on free trade between the two countries. Bosnia and Herzegovina has already signed, in fact ratified a series of resolutions like this. We think it's necessary to give consent. We do not see any obstacles to such consent and for this reason the Komisja has made it possible for our home to give its consent to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1546	Thank you very much. I don't know Tošić you don't need. Who's to ratify this agreement? No one's against it. Thank you very much, and we're done here. Let's go as soon as we talk about this ratification of whether there's an agreement to ratify the International Co-operation Convention. That's the 9th point now. That's what people are waiting for. Thank you very much. Great. You're right. Ad.6. Proposal for a law on the BiH Insurance Agency – first reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers This is the first reading. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission passed a law without amendments. Delegate Zoran Spasojević is in line with 29 members 89. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations submitted an amendment. The House of Representatives adopted the law in the proposed text at its 22nd session of 7.11.2003. First there is a debate on necessity and principles. Here you go. First we'll talk about first reading. Is anyone picking up? Is there a competent commission? Osman. There's no Spasojević. Great. Who's to pass this law on the Security Agency at first reading? Thank you very much. Unanimity. I suggest we wrap up the discussion in another reading. Who's to do the raps in the second reading? Thank you very much. Unanimity. Here you go. I put on, so Amendment I.. We izjašnjavati Mr. Zoran Spasojević's amendment. What amendment is that? Article 3 of Article 2 is amended and reads: "The Agency's headquarters is in Banja Luka". Mr. Spasojević has the right to renew that amendment. The Commission has not passed this amendment and, behold, it is renewing that amendment and we are putting it under discussion in the House. Mr. Spasojević is gone. Is anyone in need of a call? Who is it to adopt this amendment to Mr. Spasojević? Who's against it? Who's restrained? - 4 The amendment should be made to the College. Thank you very much. There's no entity majority. Would you like to see if you have this amendment? I can't figure out you don't have one.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1547	The amendment was divided before that and sent by mail and...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1548	If you agree, we can repeat the vote, but one entity vote does not mean an entity majority. I think if you agree, we can repeat the vote, if that's a request from Mr Filipović to the club. Here you go. Explain to them, Mr. Tajniča.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1549	Since there was no majority, now it should be the agreement to execute members of the College. If the College members fail to reach agreement, they shall go to the second round of voting, where two-thirds of the envoys from the territory of an entity must not express themselves contrary to the amendment. Now, is there going to be a break or how the College solves it? 30
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1550	...can we take a break for ten minutes. After consulting among the members of the College and since we have not reached agreement, we have decided to enter the second round of voting and here the second round, please. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1551	In accordance with Article 64. I ask the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations to vote by calling, for the reasons I question the regularity of the vote. Namely, two MPs who have been present all along, because of certain needs for a moment have left the room, I think the elemental need for all delegates to be given a statement on each amendment and on this as well. In this case, it was not and I am expressing an invitation to Article 64, which says, the call vote applies when the chairman, either personally or on a proposal from any delegate, assesses that this is necessary, in order to remove doubts about the regularity of the election results and therefore ask the chairperson to apply Article 64 very well established and logically.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1552	Thank you very much. This means that, at the request of the SDA MPs' club, we are asking for a personal statement by calling, because you are expressing doubts about the regularity of the vote. It is the right of the Members' Club, the right of MPs, which means we repeat the first round of voting. Come on, you read it. Guys, it's a business order. We join in the first round of voting, because the Club of MPs, the Club of Bosniak Peoples, expressed the sun to the regularity of the vote, and here I am putting it to the vote, please. Who is in favour of the amendment to the Agency's headquarters, the amendment to Article 3 of Article 2 is amended and reads: "The Agency's headquarters is in Banja Luka". Who's in favour of that amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1553	Not like that. I'm calling and they're expressing themselves individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1554	Yes, it is. Who's up for the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1555	Osman Brka, v. Hasan Čengić – Halid Genjac – Hilmo Neimarlija – v. Must Pamuk – v. 31 From the order of the Croatian people Ilija Filipović – Velimir Jukić – Tomislav Limov – Anto Spajić – Branko Zrno – From the order of the Serbian people Goran Milojević – for Nada Radović – Boško Šiljegović – for Vinko Radovanović – for Gosposin Spasjević, is not here Now of 14 total 7 is for you, 5 is against and 2 abstentions. That's 14. By entities. From Republika Srpska, out of four envoys, all four were in favour, from the Federation of BiH of 10 envoys, 3 were in favour. In total, the amendment did not go through, because in total, most of it was for the amendment, so it was not necessary, most of it to be, and that's why it needs to be agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1556	So, we've already agreed once and we're going to the second round. Who is against this amendment from the Federation? Who is from the RS against this amendment? Niko. Whoever's from the Federation so, the amendment has passed. We're done. Now we've heard. We are now in a position to vote on the law, with this amendment. So, who's for the law on insurance agencies in BiH? Who's against it? - 2 Who is abstention? There's no one here. Thank you. We find that the law was passed with 12 votes for and 2 against and normal with this amendment that we previously voted on. I propose, since we have adopted the Law in different texts, we and the House of Representatives, I suggest we vote on a committee for text alignment. I pray to the gentlemen of the RS, the Serbian MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1557	On behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I propose Zoran Spasojević on the committee for reconciliation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1558	In the name of the Croatian people, please. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1559	The Croatian Envoy Club proposes Mr Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1560	In front of the Bosniak club of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1561	In front of the Bosniak Club, I suggest Osman Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1562	So, Zoran Spasojević, Mr. Jukić and gospodin Brka. Who's for this committee? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. So we have the composition of this committee. Ad.7. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship of BiH – first reading You received the law as well as a report from the competent committees. There was no amendment. First we have a debate on the justification of the constitutional law. Here you go. Any word for it, commission? Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1563	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, a few words only. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, as competent to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Citizenship of BiH, and I must tell you that after a very extensive debate involving almost all members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, most of the votes did not accept the bill. She didn't accept it for a number of reasons. We don't have to explain it either, but the fundamental thing was that practically this bill looked like a delirium of certain, one of the largest articles in the law on citizenship. However, led by the knowledge that before the establishment of the House of Peoples, the High Representative intervened with his decision and made a decision that, which passed the Law amending the Law on Citizenship of BiH, intervened in Article 39(1) where it was renumbered by the High Representative for five years in 15 years, practically given the opportunity to allow countries, BiH and other countries to conclude a dual citizenship agreement. There were other considerations in the Constitutional and Legal Commission that, that even the unconstitutional proposal. But most of the votes, I must say the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not accepted the proposal for this law. However, this law will certainly be determined by this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1564	Thank you very much. Here goes Mr. Boško Šiljegović's word. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1565	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like any of what the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, whose member, position and opinion of the Club of Representatives of the Serbian People, is next. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH National Assembly, proposed by Mrs Sead Palavrić, who came to the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, according to the Serbian Delegates Club, is unacceptable. By the way, I would like to point out that the delegates from the Serb people there are overvoted. Explanation. By deleting members of the 16th, 17th, 18th, part of the 24th and member of the 39th proposed law, it is not in line with the BiH Constitution, Article 1st point 7d, which accurately states who has and acquires the right of BiH citizenship. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission you heard. Amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship were made on 31 December 2002, as Mr Filipović said, and a member of the Constitution of BiH, to which we are calling and where we say that the proposed law on small doors is to amend the BiH Constitution, Article 1.7d) says: "Citizens of BiH may have another state's citizenship provided there is a bilateral agreement between BiH and that state, which is regulated by the Parliamentary Assembly in accordance with Article 4(4) point d). People with dual citizenship can vote in BiH and in entities only if they have a residence in BiH." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1566	Thank you. We heard Mr. Šiljegović. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1567	Dear colleagues, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I supported this law. I think the law is needed because of the numerous refugees around the world and therefore this country has not yet achieved the signing of all necessary bilateral agreements, which this law does not dispute in its proposed form. Just one more. At the House of Representatives, this law is passed. Not by revoted members of a particular people, but by the parliamentary majority of the representative board, which is composed of representatives of political parties. There, therefore, representatives of a number of political parties voted in favour and thus voted in the House of Representatives. If we can talk about the revote of a nation, we can talk about it in the House of Peoples. At the House of Peoples, it happened that members of the Bosniak People's Constitutional and Legal Commission were overvoted, which I believe will not happen at the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1568	Thank you very much. Mr. brkati. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1569	I can't help but say, if we have a principle, then we have to stick to those principles in every situation at all times. Mr. Šiljegović said just before, but Mr. Genjac was well aware that it was not a classical revote, there may have been a kalashic revote in the House of Peoples, not in the House of Representatives, then we must observe it in such a way.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1570	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Šiljegović, is it a discussion or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1571	I have no intention of Mr. Brk and the esteemed friend of Genjac yes, but if we're going to talk about that vote in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, then I'll just tell you on the last Constitutional and Legal Commission of 11 amendments tabled by the Club of Serbian Delegates 11 to eight we were revoted by me and Mr. Radović Nada and I did not raise the question of revote of Serbian delegates. So don't move it just when it suits you. Here's the amendment from 11 to 8 was too loud for me and Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1572	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1573	In one calmer atmosphere, we can talk about this. It's not about moving nothing, it's about finding out a description of the situation that the House of Representatives is made up of representatives from political parties and the House of Peoples from the people and one correction. So, the House of Representatives is not overvoted representatives of the Serb people, MPs of the Serb people, but overvoted representatives of certain parties. In the House of Peoples, these categories of clubs work, and I explained it, of course, by respecting the right of every delegate to plead according to his will and conscience.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1574	Thank you. Do we have any further discussions? We don't have any more discussions. We've exhausted all the discussions. Hello, Mr. Brk, we're going to vote now. So this was the first reading. Who is it that this law on amendments to the BiH Citizenship Act is adopted in the first reading? Who's against this law being passed? Are there any abstentions? - 2 Thank you very much. So this law was not adopted in the first reading. The results were 5 was for, 7 was against and 2 were abstentioned. The law in the first reading didn't go through. The eighth item of the agenda is the issue of... 35 Ad.9. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on Safety Cooperation on Air Navigation from 13 December 1960, with amendments to the 6 July 1970, 21 November 1978, 12 February 1981, 27 June 1997 and the Protocol of 8 October 2003 on the accession of the European Community to Eurocontrol, proposed by the BiH Presidency, gospodin Hasan Čengić, on behalf of the Commission. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1575	So, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Cooperation, I guess the trade policy of our home, at the 12th session, discussed the Protocol and the following. Eurocontrol is a European organisation, which has jurisdiction over planning, development and implementation of air control plans. So far, 31 countries have become members. Bosnia and Herzegovina was to become 32 member states. What matters is that, we already have full control and, in fact, we're working with Eurokontrol. Eurokontrol already has a review and supervision of overfly across BiH. Eurocontrol among other activities is also carrying out the calculation and collection of transit services, which are also members of BiH, and the Erukotrol membership is, in fact, included in the price of flyovers. It is a matter of gaining the right to use technical, professional, legal and any other assistance in this very important European association of BiH, in fact, to enter into one of the most modern organisations dealing with air security and air control issues and thus to enable BiH to fully be a full member, so that it participates in the decision-making, planning this body's work to have the opportunity to employ a number of BiH citizens, to have the opportunity to develop its air flight control capacities and establish air flight safety. For all of these reasons, the Komsija has given the prenuptial home to support and to give consent to the ratification of this agreement, which makes BiH, in fact, a part of those overall activities towards so-called. European integration, and in this area, therefore, air security or air security, air flight safety, this is particularly important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1576	Thank you, we have heard of the President of the Commission for International and Economic Relations. Is anyone picking up? I am obliged to say that the predstavnički of Representatives has given its consent to ratify this agreement and I suggest that if there are no debaters that we too vote for ratification of this agreement. Who's in? Unanimity. There's no one against or abstention. Thank you very much. Ad.10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement between BiH and the Central Bank of BiH and the European Community, Proposer of the BiH Presidency You have received a report from the competent commission. Is there a committee in charge of what to say? The House of Representatives agreed at the 22nd session, held on 12.11.2003, and I am opening the debate. Is anyone answering their word? Does anyone from the Council of Ministers have anything to say about this? There isn't. Čengić, this commission of the Central Bank, is that your share? Thank you. Mr. Spasojević is gone. Osman Brka has no comment. He's positive. There's a report in writing. I'm voting to give consent to ratify this agreement. Who's in? Unanimity. So there's no need to ask who's against and who's abstention. Thank you very much. Ad.11. The appointment of the Ombudsman for BiH's human rights, the proposed BiH presidency, has established candidates for the ombudsman's role in BiH's human rights. The candidates are Dr. Snježana Savić, Mariofil Ljubić and Safet Pašić. On the basis of Article 9. The Law on Ombudsmans for Human Rights of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appoints ombudsmans. The House of Representatives is held at the 24th session, held on 27.11. appointing the proposed candidates. I put the motion to the vote and open the debate. If no one's having a discussion, since I think the presidency has seriously agreed. Who's to accept these gentlemen? Who's in, Halide? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's the master? - 1 abstention. So we find that most of the votes, with one abstention and one against, have been given consent to elect an Ombudsman, to appoint an Ombudsman. So, these are Dr. Snežana Savić, Mariofil Ljubić and Safet Pašić. Ad.12. The proposal for a law on BiH's defence – first reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers This is the first reading of the law. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission has adopted amendments that have become an integral part of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 23rd session on 20.11.2003. We now need to hold a debate on the constitutional foundation of this law. So I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Here you go. What business? What did I do wrong?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1577	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of Delegates from the Serb people, for the need of further consultation, is asking for a half-hour break, and then we will proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1578	I declare a half-hour break. Thanks a lot, buddy. Thirty-seven breaks. Let's get started. We have little one situation that is not exactly so simple and colleagues from the Club of Serbian Delegates, because of the specific situation they asked us to take a break, that is to interrupt this session and continue tomorrow at 11 o'clock, all with the intention of obtaining the position of the RS Assembly, regarding the change in the transfer of constitutional powers to this home, in order to pass this law on the People's Defence. I think we should accept this proposal from the Club of Serbian MPs and take a break from this session tomorrow at 11:00. Please, I want to tell you something. I know it might be better if we did it tomorrow at 10 o'clock. However, Mr. Jukić is in this agreement he is going on a trip and he has to go home to Hercegovina to prepare himself, and to come by 11 o'clock tomorrow to be present, too, present to this session and I ask you to accept this appointment at 11 o'clock, so that we can all be at the assembly, without delay and strictly at 11 o'clock to begin. I hope tomorrow we finish this, this part of the agenda pretty soon. They're basically better tied up and I wish we had a good solution. So, I think colleagues from this home should go to meet good solutions. Here, that's what I think and thank you very much for understanding. So we interrupt the assembly by sitting tomorrow at 11:00. Thank you. The seat was interrupted at 1710 hours. 38 I would ask that we continue, the session is interrupted whether the 14th session of the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I am taking the opportunity and this time to welcome all of you, to welcome Mr. Loker and his crew present here because it is the Law of Defence, and Loker, and Mr. Loker is the man who led and worked this project. I welcome all the others present and especially welcome the gentlemen from the information funds. We are, here I think we have a quorum, missing these two Bosniak MPs. They're here somewhere, but we don't mind having a quorum, we can start a session. The 12th item of the agenda is Ad. 12. Proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and first reading This is the first reading of the law. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission has also adopted amendments that have become an integral part of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 23rd session on 20.11. So here's to having a debate on this law on the principles on which it is, the constitutional principles on which this law was passed. Mr. Šiljegović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1580	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you on behalf of the Club of Serbian Delegates and my personal and I would like to say the following. Since the National Assembly of Republika Srpska adopted amendments to the amendments and amendments to the Constitution of Republika Srpska today, we have every valid reason to approach the debate and possible adoption of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and two accompanying laws, and I would ask you to chair the Rules of Procedure to propose two amendments adopted in the first reading in the House of Representatives. Parlametna Bosnia and Herzegovina. As we consider the law in the first reading, I would ask our services to multiply this and to divide the delegates of the Bosniak and Croatian peoples so that they can plead, and I propose this for the reasons that by adopting these two amendments, we would achieve the sameness of the text of the law in the House of Representatives with the House of Peoples and would avoid the possibility and need to form a committee to agree on two different texts of Law 39 and thus bring the House of Representatives, the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the full adoption of the law on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1581	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. Here I am asking the service to photocopy these amendments as soon as possible to share them, to deliver them on the benches of the MPs to see, since the amendments in this case are a little late, but since it is the consistency of the amendments with the amendments that have been accepted at the House of Representatives, I think it is logical that they are being discussed. Thank you. I'm asking other debaters who want to come forward for a discussion about this law. Mr. Filipović, is that on behalf of the commission? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1582	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me now, on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, report to this House that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered the Proposal for a Law on Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a competent committee, that by discussing the proposed amendments it has accepted from 18 proposed amendments, it has accepted the 9 amendments that you have received with the materials for this session and all nine amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, with the approval of the mandaters, the present OHR mandaters at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We believe that we have done a very important job, I would not be talking about the importance of this law because it belongs to one package of reform laws and in that sense, we have heard that we will have some more repairs of this law recommending the House to come through further discussion and the work of this house accepts the law with these amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1583	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Here comes Mr. Halid Genjac's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1584	Dear colleagues, esteemed presidency, distinguished guests, we are today at a significant moment ahead of a significant decision, and I would say that with the existence of will, the existence of willingness to reach agreements, to reach compromises, I believe that we will be able to resolve this work that is before us today. A significant decision is ahead of us and speaking of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading, I want to highlight a few moments that I hold necessary to highlight this occasion. First of all, I cannot without thanking all the members of the Commission for reform and defence and domestic representatives and foreign representatives and representatives of entities and representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or defence structures at all levels, because I believe that there was both will and courage and readiness that such important issues could not be spoken of in this way a year or two ago were defined in a way that paved the way for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the road, or towards a partnership for peace, and, of course, all the countries that are in partnership for peace still have the experience of enabling this partnership for peace and improving further steps for further Euro-Atlantic integration. I support this law in first reading and support the principles on which the law is formed, above all, that it meets those conditions for which Bosnia and Herzegovina has no alternative, neither its citizens nor its peoples. This is the way of Euro-Atlantic integration, these are peace partnership projects, that is the EU, that is the NATO Pact and for the simple reason that the solutions in the law are such as to improve this time. That's the first reason I've ever supported this law. At the same time, these solutions mean that the proposed law requires adequate command and control of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces at the state level, removing inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the laws that existed and concerning the powers of the state and entities in matters of defence, which is particularly important to establish democratic, quality democratic parliamentary supervision particularly in the competencies of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities in the field of defence. I particularly stress the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fact that we have already formed a joint commission, a single committee of the Parliamentary Assembly composed of representatives of both homes for defence issues and intelligence services. Furthermore, with its fundamental solutions, this law removes existing non-transparency at all levels of defence. Furthermore, with its solutions, this law allows respect for international obligations, political military agreements signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am particularly referring to agreements under the OSCE signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, the number of members of the armed forces is reduced to the number of members, so I am talking about the report, not about legal solutions, because the law does not treat directly, but the report speaks very thoroughly, very precisely in a way that the number of members of the armed forces is reduced to the number of members acceptable and tolerable for the budgets of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the available funds of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which it is currently located. Especially in economic terms. Of course, the use of human and material resources through the existence of a single law, the existence of solutions that are transparent which are adequate, will eliminate both unnecessary disposal and unnecessary exploitation in a non-functional way and human and financial resources in the defence sector. For these reasons, therefore, citing that a number of solutions in the law, some in particular, and fortunately not many of them are the result of painful compromises and they are not, I would not say that the law will satisfy all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, certainly not, but these projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina at a time of political, acuteity in which it is possible to come only by compromise. The compromises I think have been found, however, offering to all those who are interested in this issue, and I think that all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are interested, however, in allowing a minimum of compromise for all to be in some way not fully satisfied, but still satisfied with this solution. 41 So, I support the law on defence in the first reading, and once again I want to thank all those who are persistent, patient, and I would say quite brave decisions lead to a moment that we can discuss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1585	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. If nobody does, does anyone else answer the question? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1586	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I welcome you all. At this extended session of the House of Nations, I particularly welcome Mr. Loker, the leader of an expert team under whose patronage and the birth of the Law on Defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thank him at the same time behind this pay phone for what he did both as a person and as an expert in order to revive this law and become part of the overall and better and normal reality in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law has since been adopted and supported by the Croatian MPs in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We support it in the original text with amendments that have become its component thanks to the commission that has done its part of the work. Second, talk about the law, elaborate it now, I don't know if it makes sense. But what is the fact that the law is a newspaper, not only because it allows us to get closer to those integrations that we started, but because the total space in this country makes us more normal, makes us more life-saving, convincing, and significantly better, because we need to make every prerequisite in our home to go where we're going. Here we need to create Europe, here we need to adopt and implement in life the standards that NATO offers, which is offered by the Alliance for Partnership, which offers an alliance for peace, and that is the one that moves this law. Personally, by reading and listing this law, I think it's good and I think on the trail of our mutual work, I mean three clubs in this House of Parliament that they did it, or their commission to be about like this, not that one club did it. Well, then I'm sure he wouldn't be like this, but this is how when we put all three of our clubs together and that's how it was supposed to be. This is a law that has one normal composition, a law that basically covers everything and everything. That's why I support him, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1587	Thank you, Mr. Zrn. He's reporting for the word Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1588	Dear guests, dear colleagues, dear members of information funds, I would like to say a few words to this occasion regarding this law. The adoption of this bill is a major step by Bosnia and Herzegovina in its transformation on the way to Euro-Atlantic integration, i.e. on its way 42 to the EU. A colleague, Šiljegović, mentioned yesterday's session of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. There have been some changes to the Constitution of Republika Srpska, and I must say as a Srbin, as a member of that people, that there are painful, very painful compromises that we have agreed to at this time in order for our common state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to become a member of the EU as soon as possible on its path of prosperity. I think there's been some wrong interpretations these days about all these events about this law. I would like to try to convince you once again that there has been no talk here of any obstruction by the Serb people, especially delegates. In fact, our desire was to come to this law by means of a constructive approach, respecting the procedures of our interpretation. I expect both relevant and international factors to appreciate the efforts of all of us here and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will soon become a member of the Partnership for Peace and NATO Pact. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the members of the Commission and Mr Loker who is present here on a truly remarkable effort, and I expect, therefore, that during this session today, we will adopt this law and that this will be one of the most important assumptions on our path to membership in the Partnership for Peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1589	Thank you, Mr. Goran Milojević. And is anyone else answering for a word? I think there you go, Mr. Čengić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1590	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, and especially Mr. Loker, media representatives, here after a long and persistent work, after seven years of negotiations on the work of denial, persuasion and patience, we have come to this extremely important moment. I am very pleased to have the opportunity to discuss such an important matter as the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is seven years ago, when it is, for example. The Law on the Defense of the Federation was unimaginable and could not be spoken of at all. This shows the remarkable progress made in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the changes that have taken place, which took place within Bosnia and Herzegovina, psychological and political and social, as well as the international community that has shown its determination to help Bosnia and Herzegovina in the direction of its full integration. We all know that, technically, this law is one of the conditions for receiving Bosnia and Herzegovina in a partnership for peace. However, I hope that we here are aware, as well as the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we are not passing this law to prepare the preconditions for a partnership for peace, but we are bringing it in to ensure defence reform, for the security of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina as states and regions. It's the most important aspect of this law to me. 43 Of course, our commitment to a partnership for peace as a first step towards full NATO membership is important, and I hope we agree on that as a whole. I personally support one such approach, but I know that there is a long and hard and persistent work ahead of us which I would not have determined for years, but certainly that the work that is before us in many areas is more about defence than the one we have done so far. Maybe psychologically and politically smaller. To be clear, however, this is the beginning of reforms in defence and the continuation of the development of the Dejton idea towards a stable and whole Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we need to know that, the law itself is not a reform, but is the basis for its implementation. It should establish a basis for the establishment of the Ministry of Defence, a common command, and then a common army, and leftover structures that are common in all normally organised democratic countries when it comes to defence. As my predecessors have said, this law with its solutions is actually an expression of real circumstances within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all, some international circumstances, and it has very good solutions as well as shortcomings. I would especially like to emphasise that for me, an extremely important and quality solution is the issue of civil command over the structures of defence, which is the basis of every democratic development, and which is a very important and final turn from the previous system and previous psychology and habits in this area, in this area that the military had no actual civilian control but was a very important political structure in the past. System. [[doesn't understand whether the previous one]] Therefore, the civilian command of the defence structures provided for by this law is, in my opinion, a particularly important democratic achievement in the area of this law. However, there are other solutions that I believe are not only good, but unfortunately are still bad and for this reason I am convinced, for this reason I am convinced that this law is actually the next step in the real transition of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence structures towards standards common in developed democracies and standards common in NATO member states. I particularly want to express my concern with the insufficient instruments included in this law on the real integration of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army. In essence not only has progress not only been made, but it is, but three components are indirectly introduced into Bosnia and Herzegovina's army, and we have one not so good experience that the integration of the Federation's army with two components even to this day is not really over, no matter how many swear it is over. For this reason, I am quite sure that we will come into a situation that in a few years we will probably talk again about the reforms of this law that will actually go towards full integration of defence structures, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina's armies, to meet NATO standards. However, it is important to know that our obligations are not only for citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also beyond. Our obligations in the area of defence are also commitments in the area of the region. We remember well that, through the Dayton Peace Agreement, we were in charge of special negotiations and in a special agreement on regional stabilisation, which we led the negotiations in '96. The year and successfully ended, and the signatories of the agreement were then Yugoslavia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Under the agreement, Bosnia and Herzegovina has assumed commitments in regional stability and co-operation. Bosnia and Herzegovina has such obligations today, but Bosnia and Herzegovina must also have instruments in order to ensure that 44 can ensure its participation and meet that and commitments to regional stability. Of course, a very important segment is just setting up defence structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The agreement on regional stability also provides for the ratios of military structures in Croatia, Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and within Bosnia and Herzegovina. These ratios are carefully balanced for reasons that are clear to you. We know well that Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina's neighbouring countries, especially Croatia and the former Yugoslavia or the current Serbia-Montenegro, have had and have political but timely influences. We can't forget that. We can't run politics like it wasn't there or it wasn't there. For this reason, we must be very careful and very sensitive by developing towards European integration so as not to endanger regional security for a moment. We know well that endangering regional security can mean, among other things, a certain imbalance of defence structures between countries that can give cause and adhesion to someone to believe in the success of illegal use of military structures. As Meršen further said, the imbalance of power calls for war by increasing the potential for the success of aggression. In fact, war is minimalized when there is evenness, war is minimalized when there is evenness. If there is no evenness, the war is called upon. For this reason, Bosnia and Herzegovina must ensure the implementation of its regional stability obligations through these defence laws and reforms. But that means, among other things, that he must not make such moves that can give someone else reason to think that his aggression is worth it. Of course, the presence of international military forces at this time is the most important factor, unfortunately the most important factor in both internal and international stability, but given the development of the event, I hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina will finally stop the need for the presence of international military forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina and be a factor of stability by entering NATO. However, I would like to draw attention to one fact that is not insignificant, the adoption of amendments to the Republika Srpska Constitution yesterday can be a serious stumbling block, because among other things, to decide that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina will not serve a regular military deadline, it can cause interest in such solutions and in the field of the Federation, which some might interpret as a path of non-demilitarisation only Bosnia, but also in particular, I will unfortunately be here direct by some and particularly demilitarisation of Bošnjak. Of course, we know that such ideas are unrealistic, unfounded, not justified and we are convinced that Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency and future defence structures will take care of these facts and will take care of the fact that it is not true that the professional army in Bosnia and Herzegovina is cheaper than the army combined between the professional, reserve and military personnel made up of those who are serving the military term. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have such financial potential to finance expensive professional units, and for this reason safe until the time of joining NATO, Bosnia and Herzegovina will have the need for recruiting. From everything I've said, and given the interest, I trust all of us and my personal opinion that this law gets support in this home and in another home and that we adopt it in time so that we can enter the process of joining a partnership for peace. 45 I will suggest to my colleagues at this home, to the distinguished colleagues in this house, that after the adoption of the Law in the text as proposed we adopt the conclusion that I propose to read as follows. Therefore, we ask the Presidency to establish within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law the size of the professional and reserve composition and the recruiting of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces in accordance with Article 4. Annex Ib of the Dayton Agreement and the subregional arms control agreement and the Fjorentine Agreement of 14 June '96. A year that will apply until Bosnia and Herzegovina is received into full NATO membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1591	Here we heard Mr. Hasan Čengić's exposure. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? Thank you very much, I think we've exhausted this debate in this section called the first reading. Who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? Thank you very much. So unanimously 14 MPs voted in law in the first reading. I suggest you, please. Well, after the law, you said, after the law was passed. I hear very well, Osman confuses me. Thank you very much. I suggest we continue the debate on this law in the second reading. Do we agree with you? Who's in? Thank you very much. Unanimity. Dear colleagues, here's the amendment that we talked about and that he accepted, which was put forward by the commission, and they became an integral part of this law. We also have two new amendments he's offered. Please, can I run this session? We have two new amendments offered by the Serbian delegates' club and you've got all these amendments. We agreed that these amendments, to discuss these amendments, and here if there is a need for the president of the Serbian delegates' club to come out for a pay phone and say something about these amendments. Here you go. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1592	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, since the Committees of Constitutional-Law and One and the other at home, when considering the amendments, have determined the diversity of the text of the law that the Defence Reform Commission has delivered in the parliamentary procedure and how much information I have on the Council of Ministers has accepted that certain technical errors have taken place in the bill of law that we have received. 46 So I do not repeat to Rule 89 that a delegation in hats can invest amendments when it concerns new aspects which the Commission has not taken into account, etc. in Article 12 of Amendment I, which we have provided – Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, the Bureau is acting according to the consensus to carry out a supreme, operational and administrative command and control of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces. In the bill of law that we received, which was with us, it stands in Article 12. – Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, in the follow-up, the Presidency carries out a supreme, operational and administrative command and control of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces, and makes decisions by consensus. This part – and decisions made by consensus is part of the text added by the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives adopted in the first reading the text of the law as in the amendment and which we have sent to you. Article 14 of Amendment II states in the Bill's proposal – Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister, the minister has the following organisational and administrative powers which are the subject of the presidency's supreme command and control. Add part to go on – in accordance with the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I repeat the part that was added – in accordance with the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're making amendments just returning some of the text to the original text as it was, and these additions came from the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1593	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. I am asking Mr Filipović as a member of the Commission, the President of the Commission, to tell us something about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1594	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, about the amendment I, there's nothing to say about it, absolutely acceptable and I don't think he's controversial about anything. As far as this amendment II is concerned, I think his formulation has been given a little awkwardly. Here, at the end of the text that was proposed to change and read, the defence minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the follow-up text of the minister, has the following organisational and administrative powers which are the subject of the presidency's supreme command and control. 47 Now the text follows, the rest of the text remains unchanged. No, I think it should have been said that the follow-up to paragraph 1 is deleted. And then it would be in line with what Mr. Šiljegović said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1595	Thank you very much. I've got to go now, I'm sorry. We're gonna stop for a while. I now have to consult Mr. Šiljegović, as an applicant for the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Let him. There's a Genjac probably a statement, so you'll end up with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1596	I'd ask one five-minute break to be with the club presidents. Five or ten minutes, just to match the text of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1597	At the request of the president of the Bosniak Club, 10 minutes break for club presidents to agree on this amendment. Thank you very much. Who wants after this ten-minute break in which the presidents of the clubs have been made to agree to this amendment or to agree. [[PAUZA]] And here I would ask one of the presidents to. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1598	In fact, there was a misunderstanding in terms of understanding this text. In Amendment II, the text of the amendment states that Article 14 of the first position changes, which states that the rest of the text remains unchanged. This could be understood that the rest of the text of that attitude does not change, or the rest of the member of this 14th. Of course, the point is that the other part of Article 14 is not changed, and the first attitude is changed as indicated. I mean, that misunderstanding was removed, and I'm saying this more for the record so there won't be any misunderstanding. We've agreed to this, and I think it's possible to access the amendment statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1599	Thank you very much. Here we have heard Mr. Halid Genjac. Is there? Mr. Boško. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1600	48 Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, there would be no confusion in improving the legal technical proposed by Mr. Filipović and Mr. Genjac is correct. But I originally, originally, received part of the text from the House of Representatives, so I only went to the variant that the same part of the text where the point, where the point, is to be identical, is not to agree, not to the point here, but to that point. And this amendment to the House of Representatives, which we have invested in front of the Club – Article 14 is changed and said – Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister in the text of the Minister, has the following organisational and administrative powers which are the subject of the Supreme Command and Control of the Presidency. The rest of the text remains unchanged. It was an amendment that I got from the House of Representatives for the same text. I am suggested and we propose a technical repair in the direction of the extension of paragraph 1 is deleted and the rest of the text remains unchanged. halida, we're not going to do it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1601	Okay. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1602	The extension of item 1 is deleted... /save connection break/
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1603	So we adopted, here's a stenogram to make one conclusion. So we have adopted these amendments and voted unanimously for them and I am now asking my colleagues to vote if there are no further debates to vote for the law. Who is it that the Defence Act is adopted along with these amendments that we have adopted today and adopted by the Commission? Who's in? So we unanimously passed the Defense Act, and I congratulate you all. Here says my president, Mr. Loker, buy you a drink. We had one conclusion, a proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Hasan Čengić behind the pay phone. You have any objections, do you? Do you have a discussion on this? Here's the conclusion. We've shared the conclusion. Here's to this conclusion Mr. Limov will discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1604	Dear Mr. Presidents and Co-chairmen, fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, I am above all taking the opportunity to congratulate all those who have contributed in any way to the Law on Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I would like, in relation to 49, to the proposal for a conclusion issued by Mr. Čengić to propose a solution in the next direction. In fact, it seems to me that although we haven't received it, the conclusion is very interesting, although I'm not sure whether that 30-day deadline for the Presidency itself is sufficient to, I suggest that we adopt this conclusion in a way that it is forwarded to the competent commission and that at the next session, then we make a statement about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1605	Mr. Šiljegović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1606	Mr. Chairman of the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Serbian People considers the following. There is no need to conclude by reminding of obligations under the Dayton Agreement and obligations under the Agreement in sub-regional arms control. We believe that this is unnecessary, these previous obligations have highlighted this and with respect to the conclusion that is so inciting and reminding of these obligations. We believe there is no need to reach that conclusion and that the delegates in the order of the Serb people will be against making such a conclusion. We just think it's too high.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1607	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. Please, we heard, we heard discussions. So, here's Mr. Čengić to explain probably some things about conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1608	I don't think there's anything to explain, but I just want to say it's an idea, so we remind the Presidency and we tell the Presidency what it knows and needs to do. However, I will be very clear to the Club of Bosniak delegates actually had this as its amendment to the Constitution, but given the general interest and interest of us who represent our people, that this law is adopted within the deadline and that it is adopted in a way that is acceptable for all of this is that we do not delay discussions, amendments and others, we do not extend decision-making, we have given up on investing as an amendment in order to speed up this process. On the other hand, we believe that no one here can be against the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina. One such reminder by the House of Peoples of the Presidency that will play an important role in the further defence reform process is not at all a renegade and is not contrary to any position that Bosnia and Herzegovina has ever played in relation to its international obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1609	Thank you very much. Here, we heard this. So we heard Mr. Čengić, we heard Mr. Limov, we heard Mr. Šiljegović. 50 If there is no further discussion, I will still make this proposal to Mr Hasan Čengić on
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1610	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1611	Great. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1612	So if you'll excuse me for a moment. If colleagues think this should go to the commission, as the text may have come relatively late, etc. I personally don't mind that it goes to the committee, that the committee in charge should consider it and come to the House with its position, because I think it's important that we agree on things, not that we insist on something that is not acceptable to us. So, if it's acceptable that, Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry, if it's appropriate to go to the committee first, so let's listen to the committee's position. In that sense, I accept the suggestion of a respected colleague of Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1613	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Here's a two-way line on this proposal and I'll put it on. So, therefore, some Mr. Cengic, this is a proposal to Mr. Čengić to refer this to the commission and to make it clear and say his own. Thank you very much. Here we are, so we've done one big job after all. The next item of the agenda is and I must ask you now that our two colleagues Jukić and Milojević would have to get on the plane quickly, understand this thing and understand this thing and try to hurry up a little bit. The 13th item of the agenda is Ad. 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration, first reading, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, please. Hello, journalists, if we can get gentlemen out of the feather if we can keep it down a little bit, then do your part of the job later. This is the first reading. You've received the law, as well as a report from the committee responsible. There was no amendment to the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading on 24th session 27.11. Here we see that we speak in the first reading in the legal basis of this law, or constitutional basis of this law. 51 please. There's no discussion, is there? Who is it to adopt this law in our first reading? Thank you very much. Unanimity. So the law in the first reading was passed. I suggest we discuss this law in a second reading. Who's in? Thank you very much. Unanimity. You received a report from the committee in charge. There was no amendment. Is anyone answering their word? So we don't have a discussion. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Unanimity. Thank you very much. So the law was adopted in the proposed text. Point 14 of the Ad agenda. 14. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading This is the first reading. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. He has an amendment to the law. There's Mr. Jukić. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 27th session. Here's to having a discussion on the grounds of these laws. Here comes Mr. Jukić. He's got his amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1614	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in a report from the House of Representatives of the Commission, it is said that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has adopted one amendment in Article 3. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The word at the beginning of Article 46a – until a new Council of Ministers convenes after the next general elections and the end of the term of office of the members of the Council of Ministers is changed in words – within one year of the entry into force of this law. This amendment was adopted unanimously on both the Commission and the House. So no one was asked. I am also here feeling that this amendment is good and correct and obliging the Council of Ministers to do this job within a year, and not until the end of its term, this amendment has accepted and taken as its own and I propose today 52 here for our home to adopt it in order to get the law already today and then to avoid the need to comply with the different texts of the laws and the formation of committees. Here, that's my explanation. So it was unanimous. I think the amendment is good and correct and I suggest that we adopt this amendment too so that we have this text of the law in the final text today, that is, after the confirmation that it will be in the House of Representatives in two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1615	I thank Mr. Jukić. Is there anyone who's answering for the discussion? So, here's what I'm going to say if we accept this amendment. Who's in? Thank you very much. Unanimity. So now we're voting on the law in the first reading. Who is it that we accept this law in our first reading? I'm sorry, in the second reading. Excuse me, please. Wrong. Technical error. In the second, I apologize. All right. Thank you very much. The law was unanimously passed with the amendment given by Mr. Jukić. Mr. Šiljegović wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1616	Excuse me, just a little patience. Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Club of Serbian Delegates, I request an explanation of your statement yesterday given in the means of information in which you said that some political parties and some representatives are obstructing, philosophizing, etc. I can't take it. I'm sure you haven't thought of delegates from the order of the Serbian people and delegates from this home, because we have lately done everything we have done to make sure that with a valid legal basis and amendments to the amendments to the Constitution of Republika Srpska there is the adoption of these laws and in this direction I seek your statement or apology on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-03-28-0.u1617	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honored gentlemen, respected representatives of the Serbian delegates' club, I am, I must make some introductions. Yesterday after the session, or after the session, I made statements on four televisions from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'm probably somewhere, I didn't watch that video, I didn't watch it on TV, and I'm probably left out somewhere. From previous communications I had with the Club of Serbian Delegates, I think 53 were both correct and that from our communications there was one desire to bring this business to an end. However, if I have remained unspeakable, I must also say what I thought and what I think about the problem. A lot of misunderstandings and a very difficult situation have caused the adoption of this law and the discussion of this law at the club, at the House of Representatives, and it is clear that at some point some, in my opinion, were feeling some obstructions, but I did not, if I remained unarranged, then I must think that they are, I must now say here that I have felt that these are the obstructions of the people of the opposition parties and I did not mean these MPs, these delegates, outside of this parliament, and then Mr Šiljegović sent me a rebuke, why I am speaking, a friendly criticism, why I am talking about that parliament. I must tell you, I belong to a political option that has MPs in the Republika Srpska Parliament and I have representatives of both the Serb and Bosniak and Croatian peoples in that parliament and I get as a party, party official the right to discuss this club as well, and that is why I have discussed the club and discussed it. I thank these MPs, namely these delegates of Republika Srpska, on behalf of the Serbian people for one good co-operation, the Serbian people for good co-operation and one quality and correct work in this parliament. Thank you very much. The seat is over. The session was completed at 12.50 hours.
