ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9519	Dear Members, distinguished guests, I am opening the 20th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear colleagues, MPs, I would like to inform you that today's session was invited by the chairman and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the EU, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the monitoring mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the representative of the UMNIK. All who responded to this session I warmly welcome, and it is my special satisfaction to welcome the Chairman's Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and to welcome the representatives of the Permanent Election Commission, if they are here, because last time the point related to the report of the Permanent Election Commission was removed for reasons why the promoter was not at the meeting. I would also like to inform you that the session is attended by 38 MPs. 25 from the Federation and 13 from Republika Srpska, that they are on the official path of Sead Palavrić, so there is a justifiably absent and Zoran Spasojević, and also Vinko Zorić is justly absent. The others did not justify their absence. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also received a draft agenda for today's 20th session. The only change in terms of the agenda that you have received earlier relates to item 12. This is the request of the Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. This item of the agenda was included at the request of the Permanent Election Commission, and on a proposal from the Extended College which was here 15-20 minutes ago ended its session in terms of preparing this session. There's no need to read the full agenda I'll read it after adoption for a stenogram. 2 In this regard, I am opening a debate on the agenda with a small note. I would like to inform you that the College of Representatives held a meeting in the short term and that we held a debate on the Rebalans of the budget and that the position of the College of the House of Representatives, in particular that it was the summed deadlines and needs of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we can regularly finance ourselves to finish this job as soon as possible. The first proposal was made by the Bureau to do so in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, but since this procedure does not apply to the Rebalancing of the budget, we are simply obliged to implement the procedure of Members 106 and 107 in which the College decides on the procedure. We agreed in the College to cut the procedure as short as possible, so for 2/3 to leave 7 or 10 days to the commissions to finish their part of the work, and that in the last or last week of this month we have a new session of the House of Representatives in which, hopefully, the deadline and the need to try to get the clubs together and if they have, but therefore this amendment phase or ambition for the amendments must be reduced to a minimum and if they come to a common amendment that would adopt here and that would support the House of Nations. So by 31 this month, we would have adopted the Rebalance budget. In that sense, we also had a conversation today with the chairman of the Council of Ministers who, of course, had other proposals, but here is the position of the College. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. The speaker, Mr Adnan Terzić, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for getting the agenda I felt the need to respond to two questions. First, as announced by the chairman of the matter of the budget Rebalance which you know that at one of your meetings at the beginning of the year, you have concluded that within 60 days, the Council of Ministers comes before this Parliament with the Rebalance of the budget. I would like to say that we have led the activities in the past 6-7 months in this direction that as soon and as soon as we get to the Rebalance of the budget, in particular that the rebalancing which, the budget adopted at the beginning of the year, with great pressure from the international community of the IMF, the World Bank, the OHR did not entail a new Law on the Council of Ministers did not mean all of these reform things that we do, which strengthen state institutions and did not take into its content a few important institutions such as the Election Commission, such as BH MAK etc. The basic reason why we haven't been able to get out with the rebalancing is that the IMF refuses to allow any rebalancing at all. We had three months of very bile discussions with the IMF and at the end when we said we would declare them an institution that prevents reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we were given the opportunity to go into rebalancing. There's got to be some relationship with the entities and the way we're gonna do it with them. An increase in their spending on Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. 3 In short, the rebalancing is done out of the meaning of the systemic needs to include those ministries and those institutions that are not covered in December 2002, but for the reason that Bosnia and Herzegovina has enough inflow of funds, a very large inflow of funds that we simply cannot afford without rebalancing. The truth is, these are short-term funds that have come into play and let me tell our activities, but also with some circumstances these are not the means we can count on for next year. The IMF is rigid, and it doesn't want us to put those funds into the budget because they're not permanent sources. I understand your need to say something about that rebalancing. I understand your need to make certain changes if you can agree on this, however, I urge you to understand both the reality and the need to adopt rebalancing as soon as possible. If it is not possible to do business according to the 105th procedure, I invite you to make one effort and reduce your procedures to as little measure as possible. So even this 1/3, which was adopted at the College, I think it's an extremely long term, because it's not just this House of Representatives that decides on the budget, but we have a House of Peoples who are going to be in the same procedure, and we're going to come to probably mid-November of the month when it's absolutely impossible to make any payment by then. It also means the question of the salaries of MPs and the issue of the functioning of state institutions and all these institutions that are attached to Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. I will not today and because of the media and for everyone to talk about what the biggest problems we had in the talks with the IMF, but also to know that certain increases towards the Presidency, according to the Representative, both homes of the state parliament were one of the biggest stumbling blocks. The second reason I came forward was my surprise that at today's session you do not have a statement on the procedure for the Law on indirect taxation. I do not know if it is necessary, and I believe that we are all in this room sufficiently politically and politically wise and politically wise to understand that this is a crucial law on which it depends, among other things, the result of a feasibility study that is due in November to be published by the European Commission. As far as I understand it, the College has failed to reach a dispute that today's statement on this procedure is put on the agenda and I am slowly afraid that we are also dividing ourselves into a position and opposition and a crucial thing on the European path. The law on indirect taxation was done under the leadership of an international representative with the presence of all experts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you know very well how many months there have been coordination and debate on the subject. I must admit that he was in the Council of Ministers for a time, and I did not knowingly put him on the agenda until I reached a full political consensus in Bosnia and Herzegovina over the law. The moment I reached a full political consensus, we put it on the agenda and adopted it in the text proposed by the Commission with some minor changes. I'm not sure that this House, which, as far as I understand the ongoing session, is necessary under such a crucial law to discuss principles, procedures, and I don't know what not. So the content of the law is certainly known to the general public, let alone the MPs. You got four last week. You're in a permanent session and I'm inviting you to plead today on the procedure. If we go into the process, which is not happening, it is certain that the European Commission will also do a negative feasibility study because when we came and when you took over your duty and we did when we took up our duties Kris Paten sent a letter saying that the complete parliamentary majority and full post-election power is watching through laws that will ensure the introduction of VAT into Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus make us an equal country in all European countries. I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't be discussing the procedure for this law today. I again underline the information that I have politically agreed on, as you know in it we have deadlines that involve certain activities to implement this law. I want to cut those deadlines, and I want to split those deadlines together with the representatives of the European Commission and the OHR, but we have to start once. If there is no statement of this procedure today, it means that by the second half of November, we will not have adopted that law. The end of October and the beginning of November is when the European Commission discusses the feasibility of the study here on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I call on you, apart from everything that goes along with it, a unique economic space, the need for us to have a single customs duty, to go with the introduction of VAT, I think that this feasibility study is, however, the strongest argument for appeal to all MPs at this moment to think carefully whether we will delay this process or not. I again underline, we have political agreement and all the political factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina have accepted the content of this law and I don't think at this point we need a debate on whether the day is two too late, whether the MPs have had a chance to get acquainted with the law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9521	I thank President Terzić. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9522	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I feel the need on behalf of the Club or the Party for BiH Club needs to be determined according to these initiatives we just heard here. So the truth is that this morning at the Expansive College, we held a serious debate about the situation where we found ourselves from the point of view of the procedure and from the point of view of the practical needs for this country to determine legal projects, adopt as soon as possible. If you remember, I asked this Parliament in the last session to investigate these secret roads of certain legal projects through this vast forest administration, etc. and cited concrete facts for certain laws when he was considering, when he came to a second level, etc. When it comes to the Republic of the Budget, the Party for BiH is absolutely ready today if it is to be discussed. But the minimum procedure of truth works and the public must be respected. And the five facts is that all MPs practically rebalanced the budget this morning, most of them saw it this morning. So as far as we're concerned, some of them didn't even get it. So when it comes to the stranka for BiH as part of a possible procedure, we are absolutely ready to discuss the Rebalancing of the budget and tonight, if possible, of course. I just want to say, we don't see motives for the Rebalance budget in salaries, we don't see motives in some kind of tails, etc. We see the motives in the adoption of the Rebalans in creating assumptions for achieving the basic state functions that we are establishing during the year, because we said when we adopted the budget to adopt it under the obligation to go to Rebalans in 90 days, because we were already aware that certain functions were not properly covered by the necessary resources. So it's very important to know what motives are. Motives are not wages, motives are not some tails, etc. rather than simply creating a minimum for the functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that is establishing. When it comes to the Law of Indirect Taxation. According to our information at the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina Club, this law was laid down 15 days ago by the Council of Ministers. The MPs got it, I might be wrong again, some on Thursday, some on Friday, some this morning. We're ready, we've followed the whole project and we're totally in the middle of what's going on, we're ready to also comply with the possible procedures for this law to discuss immediately. If possible. So, I wanted to state the position of the Party for BiH, we are absolutely ready in the framework of the possible quickest and shortest procedures to enter a serious debate on all these projects Mr. Terzić talked about with minimum procedures. As soon as we ask for a re-examination and determine why a single piece of paper travels for 15 days in the same building. And don't change the odds that people won't. So we want to discuss it, but with minimum respect for the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9523	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Gligorić answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9524	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that the 12th agenda that we received from the College in the proposal, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law, which is proposed by an urgent procedure to adopt, to remove that item from the agenda and to propose, means that we go to the regular procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Because the amendments and additions that are proposed are fundamental to the law. It's not just technical reasons, and that's why they should go through the commission phase, and that's how we get into that commission phase, and that's how we solve it. I don't think there's any need for us to work on Article 105. I'm going to contribute this. And now, as for the initiative proposed by Mr Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I believe that both proposals regarding the Rebalance of the budget, as well as the Law on indirect taxation, should not be accepted as proposed. 6 First, when we talk about the Rebalance of the budget, as an MP, I am aware through regular procedures, I will support it, it is necessary for institutions as well as for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. But the way the Council of Ministers proposes it to do this by an urgent procedure, which is that we do not have the opportunity to go through the regular procedure in the debate, and through the amendments, it is in fact a monopoly position of the Council of Ministers, which in this way what they have installed practically in the Rebalans budget that we only accept here and has left us generously Mr Terzić that we can and that he fully understands that we can say something about it. We have a need for that, etc. Mr. Terzić, we have a need, a commitment, we owe it to the public and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss the budget of each item individually, long-term and then to adopt what is real, not what may be fictional and what is monopoliestic, and that you threaten us here that MPs will not have a salary. No MPs must have a salary, the salary is the least important in this country in terms of what needs to be financed, and Mr Terzić, I suggest to you now, I propose to this Parliament when we are already talking about Euro-Atlantic integration, when we talk about this democracy and the market economy. Let's tell the OHR, let's tell the Implementation Council, let's tell the international community as a whole, let's make a new order of steps, and that's to make Bosnia and Herzegovina a legal state that they don't want to make, and then we'll have democracy and a market economy. Here we are offered a market economy, we are offered democracy, but that we are offered in no way to build a legal state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why we want an unfinished monster in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why I propose that we agree as serious people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we want reforms, you cannot have reforms without a rule of law. That's why you have corruption, you have crime and you have a monster called Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of all these negative phenomena that we're all talking about and the High Representative. And then when we want to talk nice about Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we say it's great, etc. There's something wrong with people somewhere. And that's why I'm proposing as serious people that we engage in serious, serious problems with the proposed measures. As far as the Law on indirect taxation is concerned, I also feel that it is necessary to enter the ordinary procedure. But what we got. The same thing in this House has been said to us from the OHR and here also in the joint institutions, no matter what we have to ask the governments of the entity. That's too high. We don't need governments at all, their opinion is too high. And what do we get now? It's the first process. It's all about entities, with prime ministers, Mr. Mikerević and here in the Federation as well. There's something wrong with us in Bosnia and Herzegovina again. And that is why I do not want this parliament to be reduced to a mere statement in which we will bear the burden of responsibility for the construction of the rule of law. They are not only the passing of laws but also the only obligation of parliamentarians to establish a legal order, and that means a good life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9525	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Jahić answered for the word. Here you go. No, I'm running from before as soon as anyone answered. It's possible someone's answering without me seeing him, but you're all recorded believe me. Jahić ići, and Mr Lagumdžija, then Milićević, then Kunić, and the apostle Dr. Azra Hadižiahmetović. How about behind Mr. Jahić? Here's when Mr. Jahić is finished, then business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9526	I would first of all like to say that we had just before too much black assessment of the existing situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially about monsters, etc., especially if some participate, and if they want that monster created. But aside from that. I would like to say, therefore, that this morning we are at the enlarged College of this Parliament in front of the U.S.A., so it is proposed that today there be a Law on indirect taxation under Article 104 in Parliament. First of all, we feel that we really need to protect the integrity of this Parliament and that it has its true role to play. And I hope that the time we passed the laws, certain decisions under Article 105, is by system take or leave behind us. And we see that it's already becoming an intensity. As far as responsibility is concerned, we feel that this Parliament's responsibility is being examined and that we are acting responsibly towards certain tasks and obligations. We all agree, we all agree that this law is not one of the foundations of future reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we, if we want to safeguard the integrity of this Parliament, must be responsible and we must respect this law and therefore to those reforms, and that is what can draw us forward. We know that it's also a very important form and that it's rare that we don't have a firm and strong form and procedure to tell us what to say and the essence slips away. However, really the essence of this law imposes on us the obligation to deal extremely responsibly with this problem. Especially since today we will not discuss the essence of this law. So we're not discussing the essence of that law. So that's one thing, but we're discussing procedure, procedure. And it's better to do it now than to do it for about 15 days at the end of this month when the next session is planned. The deadlines are very tight. And then let's not complain to ourselves that we haven't been able to honor the deadlines. The initiative was also from these MPs, from this parliament, that every law goes to the Council of Ministers and that a maximum consensus is reached there. The members of the Council of Ministers, so the government provided it. Certainly, there was an exhaustive debate beyond the session itself and during the meeting of the Council of Ministers itself until a consensus was reached. So we have everything we've been looking for in principle. So let it go according to procedure. So it doesn't matter if we're aware of how much we are, although we're less very well all familiar with the essence of this law. So we're looking to go according to this procedure, so 104. 8 Also, as regards the Rebalans of the budget, given all that he talked about, we would not have been much longer, so we also support this initiative, which was supported by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so today can be debated, or since we ate in a permanent session which would not have been held by Parliament at the end of this week. I don't see any reason, therefore, because there's nothing before, no journey or visit, so it's not more important than the adoption of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9527	I thank my colleague Jahić. The word was answered by Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. It's more like a business intervention. I'm sorry. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9528	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and guests, I would like to draw attention to Article 50 of Article 2 which says - the MP cannot speak for more than 3 minutes nor elaborate the essence of the issues proposed as part of the agenda. Since MPs speak in this meaning in this speech much longer, that is to say, come here and apologize, I ask the chairman to respect Article 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9529	I thank my colleague Novaković for correct interpretation of the MPs, but I ask the MPs to really stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'm not gonna take anyone's right to speak, but I'm asking you to stay on the agenda within three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9530	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, in line with how it was carried out here. First on the Rebalance budget. I want to draw attention to two aspects. One is procedural, and the other is essential. From the procedural point of view, it's not quite clear whether you're looking for 105, so if you can't do 104. Is that the conclusion? I'm talking about the Rebalance budget. After 105, and you can do 104 if you can't do 105, right? It's Mr. Jahić too. First, it can't be 105th or 104th because the issue of budget rebalancing and budget execution is regulated by Articles 106 and 107 of the amending budget itself. In fact, practically 105th, which you have indicated here as a possibility, it is procedurally not possible. Otherwise, such a procedure is only an imagination for something that, as it stands out there, requires a high degree of urgency or is not complex. But this is a question and how complex. But it's not just a matter of procedure, it's about essential things. First of all, we haven't won the MPs' Club yet, we haven't got nine Rebalance proposals yet. So we didn't get it to be clear at all. So far, we have not received the Budget Rebalance Proposal. Secondly, you have committed to giving the Council of Ministers a budget rebalance before this Parliament within the appropriate time-limit after the adoption of the budget. Let me wait for Mrs. Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9531	Okay, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9532	Maybe some of them won, and we didn't, and I'm sorry. We didn't win. Six months have passed the deadline the Council of Ministers had to put before the parliament's Rebalans budget. So six months. Maybe even more than six months. You told us here you've been holding discussions with the IMF for three months, saying you threatened the IMF to accuse them of being against reform. Which I don't argue with, it's even possible that you did. However, I have the right to tell you that I, as a member of Parliament, have learned this for the first time today. So you cannot conduct three months of such negotiations and inform us now in such a way. We have several times asked that, in November, a stand-by arrangement be highlighted in different, both in committees and in this individual home, not just from several parties and individuals, we have asked for a debate here, because November is coming to us. Unfortunately, we have heard here today that you understand the need to say something about rebalancing. First of all, about rebalancing, this is the only place that needs to say something about rebalancing before it is adopted and I have to admit that you gave us one sentence here, look at the magnetogram it looks like – that if we don't do that it will come to the question and pay of the MPs. That's what you said here from this pay phone. You've listed something else. But you said they'd come into question and pay the MPs. So this parliament has no way of acting in an atmosphere where the chairman of the Council of Ministers explains that their salaries will be at stake. We've come to the question of the pay raise decisions that we've made past the budget, which I won't repeat, in fact, they're known to the public. However, the president, a member of the presidency, said after the Bureau's session, that the Parliament's salaries must be returned. We got it through the information fund and we haven't gotten it in the official procedure yet. Maybe it's contained in the budget's Rebels. However, it is something that is completely and acceptable for the way it works. And I still have to tell you, Mr. Chairman, do you know that there are parallel offices of state institutions that are financed from the budget, although they are not foreseen by the budget, and now it seems that the budget should be remedied? Do you know that your foreign minister has an office in Republika Srpska and that there is a finance minister appointed by the High Representative as his advisor who takes care of the budget and these things. And that pays for everything in the budget. Do you know that? Do you know that a member of the Bureau has three offices? Two in Republika Srpska and one in Sarajevo. And it should all be paid out of the budget. And v and 10 you want us to wave that at 105. Please take this all seriously together. Get this whole thing together. So I ask you to discuss the budget the way it is, that is, its rebalancing and to answer the questions that I've been asking here, when we're talking about it. It's better for you to talk about it yourself than for us to ask you from this pay phone. As for the Law on indirect taxation, you told us that it was done under the leadership of the international community and that the Law was known to the general public and that all political factors had adopted this law. Under 1. The SDP did not accept this law. We also consider ourselves a political factor. We did not accept it, which does not mean that in a serious debate, if they respect the appropriate amendment, that we can accept it. But for us, the law in this form is unacceptable. And I still want to say it eventually. Two dots, I'm talking about two dots. I can come out and come back if you want. It's a second point.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9533	I'd like to hear from the MP. I didn't take anyone's word from you. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9534	And once what Beriz was talking about, I want to draw it one more time in my own way. We received the Proposal for a Law on Indirect Resistance 9.10, 9.10. Why did this stay with you for 10 days? Why on the Council of Ministers this cost 10 days. Ten days was supposed to come from the Council of Ministers to the protocol. We got it as a club on Friday and today you're asking us to discuss it by telling us that we agreed on it. We don't accept the law in this form that's given here by article 105. According to Article 104, we have interventions that are appropriate and we are prepared to work on it, if we are to continue the session tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9535	I would like to thank the Member of the United States of America. Lagumji. The speaker, Mr. Terzić, picked up the floor. But if there are any more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9536	I'll just have to, I should have gone out right after Gligorić. So it wasn't the Council of Ministers who asked, and this is not the replica of the representative Lagumdzija, it's just the presentation of 11 fts. The Council of Ministers did not go to prevent MPs from discussing the content of the rebalancing. I just asked you this morning that the procedure that you are, here's what the College said, means five days for one commission, 10 days for another commission to cut it short for a few days. Nothing else. Shorten up in a few days, considering the situation is what it is. And then go out with the amendments. Everything you can agree on will be an integral part of the rebalancing and over. But don't spend 10 days on the board discussing something you can do in three days. Nothing else. It's a key thing. And the Bureau has asked you for a procedure and the Presidency is what it proposes to this House to rebalance the budget. And when it comes to this Law on indirect taxation, no matter how many days have passed since you received as MPs, I am asking you today to plead with me on the procedure and that the deadlines begin to run. The procedure was the Council of Ministers realized your request a few months ago that you didn't want anything after 105 and we never sent you anything after that. 104 means 23 days of debate. Why wait until you've heard of the procedure when we'll have the same result in seven days. You'll accept to go for 104. Here's my suggestion, and I'm really asking you to take it. But I have to, when I'm out and I'm gonna say next. I think that MP Gligorić was in this parliament in December, and I am not a fool to point out that under the pressure of the international community, the IMF and OHR raised their hands to adopt such a budget. It's not a rebalance of the Crucial Document. The budget is a crucial document. The budget is an annual cruise document, and the rebalance is something that patches up the hole. Now, you've raised your hand under the pressure of the international community. If the Council of Ministers comes out with a rebalancing and if I, as chairman, argue with full responsibility that the reason why you've been waiting for 6 months, I agree with Mr Lagumdžija that this deadline is inaccessible, that the reason is exclusively a rigid position of the IMF, that he has not allowed us to discuss the rebalancing at all. Here we are. The staging arrangement is perfect as you can see from all the IMF reports. By December the month will be fully realized. So the IMF has a very positive view of the current flows in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the realisation of the stand-by arrangement. Maybe it doesn't answer to someone, but it's day-to-day political needs. It is strategically important that the IMF has such an attitude. So that's when you accepted that a Crucial Document like the budget, no discussion whatsoever, would be accepted with any hint that it would be a rebalance. Now I ask you a question – how can I take responsibility, how can I take responsibility from the OHR, among other things, and you insist on it, I am committed to it if for the first time the chairman comes before you and explains nicely to you the situation in which we are in the matter of rebalancing, you do not accept it. If the High Representative had come here, if don Hejs had come, if a representative of the European Commission had come, they'd probably have said a few times that it was the destruction of the dignity of this house, but eventually raised their hands for it. Give us a hand in doing what we intend to do, and that's to take responsibility. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9537	I thank the chairman. The replica has Mr. Lagumdžija, then Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9538	Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, when you took over the Council of Ministers, you took the obligation to come out with the rebalancing in a few months. The budget you mention has been adopted by this parliament in which you have a parliamentary majority, as I remember unanimously, just because you took the commitment, you personally will arrive at Parliament with a rebalance in 60 days or 90 days. Otherwise it's us, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9539	I wasn't back then.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9540	This Parliament was sitting with this, remember that, you'll see well when it was. This is when you were appointed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, while you made consultations and here very clearly told us that you are taking the obligation to complete the budget rebalance in 60 days, or 90 days. That's one thing. Second. Don't make a mess. When it comes to the Law on indirect taxation, we are prepared as SDP, if this is your proposal to go along with Article 104, to declare today that it goes under Article 104 and then to speed it up without breaking the Rules of Procedure. So we're ready. When it comes to the budget, please refer to the right attitudes, the members of the law, the Rules of Procedure and tell us exactly what you really want when it comes to the budget? Are you going to do 106, 107, or 107, and when you refer to 106, or 107, and ask for an emergency procedure, what kind of urgency are you looking for in order for us to know what to talk about today? Well, I do, but I mean, we communicate, we Berize communicate through the chairmanship of the predsjedništvo because the finance minister who's not here is the one who prepared it for the presidency. I suppose, or the Council of Ministers. We know what the procedure is for Berize and you and Adnan and me. So when there's no presidency, I guess I won't be giving an empty chair a question. And what made me the most of all. Please, if you have the fear of the High Representative, of don Hejs and of the EU representative, as you have told us, don't pass that fear on to us. These people we treat, I treat them personally as members of the international community, and it looks like you treat them like someone who's ready and you're willing to scare all of us together. Get them to talk about budget rebalancing, and you'll see what it looks like. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9541	I thank my fellow Lagumdžija. The replica has Mr. Gligorić. Here you go. Behind Mr. Gligorić, I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9542	Ladies and gentlemen, the guilty quote is Mr. Terzić for these reasons. You went out and you said the same thing when we adopted the budget on necessity, urgency, collapse, etc. At the same time, you spoke to the international community, the World Bank, OHR, etc., and I, in this parliament, could ask for a stenogram to say the following – it is the wrong IMF policy because it works in a way to talk to the relevant finance and budget ministries or vaults and occasionally with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and then it comes almost to Parliament, and at the same time nobody calls the relevant committee on finance and budget, or in another home, the administrative commission, and I was saying that it would be necessary and necessary for Parliament to be represented in the procedure, in particular that it brings the budget, and we bring it in the way that the law is intended. The budget itself is not the law. So in this House, I criticise the World Bank and the IMF because they find politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are talking to each other in four eyes, with whom they agree and who, on these half-tronary grounds, want to raise to that level here that we are all in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. We're not like that, Mr. Terzić. I have the courage to say what is good with the World Bank, at the IMF, and at the same time what is wrong with our politicians, and especially with those who exercise executive power such as the Council of Ministers, such as entity governments who simply accept absolutely everything by the IMF and what is negative for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You carry that responsibility. We're actually helping you, we're getting you back on track. You have completely separated yourself from the people, and you accept these civil servants who thus impose something against the interests of the people. Therefore, I will be as an MP, primarily guided by my conscience and the profession that I have, of course. Therefore, Mr. Terzić, you have made a complete mistake when it comes to my address, I simply ask you to try to be partners with the international community, not half-trons like this until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9543	I thank my colleague Gligorić. I'd like to keep our words. Mr. Novaković's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Moranjkić. Is it a discussion or an injury? You're registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9544	So give it to me, it doesn't make sense. An hour and a half already. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9545	I would like to warn my respected colleagues of Article 50, paragraph 2, which says - the MP cannot exhibit for more than 3 minutes or elaborate in the essence of the issues proposed as part of the agenda. And I'm asking the chairman to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Article 55(2) - an MP may ask for a word to correct a quote that is incorrectly cited and which could be the reason for the misunderstanding etc. etc. The last sentence, in which case the MP must be limited to correction, or an explanation that cannot last longer than 3 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9546	I thank my colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9547	The speaker, Mr Špirić, called for the word. According to the records, he is indeed in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9548	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will, of course, try to simply come up with a solution, so I won't discuss it in a sense to open any replicas. I think we need to figure out a way out, just get to the agenda and work on the agenda. There were two proposals that drew the attention of most MPs, which are the proposals of the chairman, Mr Terzić. The first was related to the need for urgent discussion and adoption of budget rebalancing. And no one in this House argues that an emergency dispute should be carried out and budget rebalances should be reached. We have to do all of this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On the trail of what the MPs spoke about, chaired by Mr Adnan Terzić, I informed you of a narrow college already made a decision. I don't know what this story needs today and who needs it. The college has decided to shorten the procedure maximum, tomorrow we will inform I have another session of the Colleges to see when Parliament's session will be scheduled. With all this in mind we're discussing budget rebalancing. What is not good and what is not good for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, which is not good for budget rebalancing if we are to treat it is the procedure of Article 105, but it is business impossible. The fact that the Bureau and the service don't know our rules of procedure, so they sometimes ask for the procedure of the 105th, we meet them and we say we can't follow that procedure, we can't do 106th and 107th. So we've already acted in accordance with this procedure, and I'm asking you not to discuss it today. So no one argues that we will shorten the maximum procedure aware that certain institutions of the state have serious problems for regular financing. So, aware that we should not include the process, but also that MPs can debate, make observations and certain corrections to the budget. 15 I don’t think there’s any need to discuss it today, because that’s not the point of the agenda. It was just information that the College was aware of the urgency, aware of the requirement to do so, made a decision to shorten the procedure. I think that's enough for information today, so we don't have a debate at all. The second proposal was to find a point in the agenda a statement on the procedure of the Law on indirect taxation. I have to tell you otherwise, that law entered the Council of Ministers eight or nine weeks ago. And it's not good that when the time is spent to debate Parliament is told to Parliament, you know, we're all supposed to do it for now. This isn't an order office. This is a serious state parliament. That's what I'm supposed to be like. So, shortening the procedure, I remember here when we discussed that we were told that the reform laws, the Law on Defence, the Law on VAT or indirect taxation, the Law on Mergering Intelligence, that Parliament would have a chance to pass that law in the ordinary procedure. What happens next, who spends time. Where these discussions are being held is not clear to me. But I ask you our task as Parliamentarian is to hold to Parliament's dignity. I don't mind, but I must say I signed a memo this morning informing the MPs that we're passing the law to them. It's crazy, I think to declare here that the rule of law procedure is not the essence of a farce. In order for someone to declare whether the procedure is shortened, urgent or regular, they have to read the law. To see if he's complex, if he's got a lot of dilemmas. Whether to seek expert support to clarify some dilemmas. I'm afraid of that speed, and I don't think it's a good thing every time we have it now, instead of an ambulance, we have a shortened procedure, even though I'm aware of deadlines. And if this law were to go according to a reduced procedure, and if at the next session that will be held in 10 days, or 12, 15 is irrelevant to it, we can honor the deadline of 31.12 which is very important. But ladies and gentlemen, in order for the MPs to debate, they must be informed. What's not good is that we're discussing without reading the law or even the procedure. But if today wins the opinion that here are the people who want to plead out of the procedure as Parliament, okay. But I don't think we're giving rise to this House whether the requests come from the Council of Ministers or coming from the OHR. And I'm saying we won't be late. If anyone thinks December's gonna be a celebration, they're wrong. As now the assumption is if we don't finish by the end of November, December is January, so the old practice per year we're going to celebrate the festivals and I don't know what we're going to do, and the rest we're going to do. So, we can afford, even in the regular procedure, to agree to pass these laws, but what we should do is sit down as chairman of the employment clubs, to agree on a minimum of amendments that will be common, so that the laws are passed. I'm asking you for that kind of dialogue. And this dialogue that we're leading who's in, and who's against me is too high. We're all aware that they need laws, that they need to be adopted, but we need to create an atmosphere. 16 As the chairman said, he did not allow the law on indirect taxation to enter the Council of Ministers until it reached political consensus. Why do we have a real problem with that? Well, I guess we in Parliament need to get to that desired consensus, too, and to come first, we need to read the law and we need to talk. So I'm asking you to get out of this. So the budget rebalance is settled. We made a decision to cut deadlines. So that's the information to Parliament. We can't talk about this today. The law on indirect taxation does not waste anything on time if we declare the procedure of the next session. But if today's opinion prevails, today people want to make a statement about the short procedure, but that the public knows they haven't read the law. There's no worse message. Because someone can have party information, someone could get a line of party law, but he was sent to the MP the moment the letter was signed in Parliament, and then the activity begins. We're aware of those responsibilities. Today they even made a decision that is the committee in charge to make sure that we're perceiving time. I ask you to understand that we have had a responsible approach, and that we appreciate and respect what the Council of Ministers requires and I ask the chair of the clubs to have this in mind, to create an atmosphere and to come to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9549	I thank the Mr. Chairman, the word was asked by Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Adnan Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9550	I'll be very brief, but please tell me. Mr. Špirić is very skillful in using his position as chairman and stretching the procedure. This house is in a permanent session. If it came on Thursday, here's what you want me to confess. The Council of Ministers made a catastrophic mistake. I'm asking you to accept this, that it's a catastrophic mistake, that we've extended the deadlines, but why are you going into the same thing now? If Thursday came from the Council of Ministers, you are in a permanent session, you could have Friday if not Thursday, then Friday. And don't let him, I'm just asking those MPs who don't exactly follow Mr. Špirić, think hard and put this in the regular procedure when voting. And besides, he has political consent. I read twice in the paper, in this, Independent and Avaz, that Mr Špirić and his party absolutely supports the Law on indirect taxation. I can even get the articles. So, I know there's a political environment, so don't drag it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9551	The replica was answered by the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9552	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think, I really don't want to talk on this background even though I could talk to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whether MPs are following Špirić or not, they will decide themselves to follow what they read. I am today, therefore, trying to find a way out as chairman of this Parliament for both one and the other point of the agenda, with full respect for the function, including the person of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. There's no reason for Nikola Špirić to obstruct anything. I'll make a statement about that law. So I personally and also MPs from the Club Party I belong to, but we have to give people a business chance to read it. That's what we're asking. Well, I guess it's past the time when the ministers haven't read the law they're delivering to Parliament. And I said in a conversation with representatives of the international community, the condition is that we discuss, that ministers read the law. What do you want the ministers not to read now, not even the MPs? And it's true that we're in a permanent session, because it means that people read, to determine the essence of whether it's shortened or regular, it's very important. So, I'm taking care of the deadline, and I want to help the Council of Ministers. We won't make a mistake at least 42 people have no reason to make any mistake. And please don't let us rephrase on that background, but we're looking for a solution. I'm on the line looking for a solution, not for a solution to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9553	I thank Mr. Špirić. Is Mr. Novaković giving up the business discussion? We started respecting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9554	I'm not giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9555	Okay, Mr. Novaković and Mrs. Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9556	Dear colleagues, I didn't find this in the Rules of Procedure, the possibility of replicating the agenda, and despite my efforts, I couldn't find it. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to Article 50(2) and Article 55(2) and ask the chairman to respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9557	I thank my colleague Novaković. I appeal to the MPs to honor the Rules of Procedure. And I think the Rules of Procedure have been respected and there was no need for this intervention, unless Momčilo won't take another time, but he'll get a chance every time he warns us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9558	Gentlemen, the chairman of the esteemed colleagues, I also support Mr. Novaković's initiative and I think it is actually directed to our chairman that they are there to limit the story and the discussion, to be constructive and finally get started. We've been talking for almost an hour and a half about something that isn't still on the agenda. So, first of all, I'd be begging our chairor or colleagues here if they don't have it, we at the club didn't get a budget rebalance at all. If you need Mr. Belkić said he got it, we'll copy it. Now it's a paradox that we're ten days ago, I'm as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, and I've already received from certain agencies correspondence where they complain about their budget items, where they insist that we consider it, that we even call them. And I don't have a budget rebalance, and neither do any of my clubmates. This document, this bill we got this morning was 13. 10th when it's posted. So the interesting thing is that we haven't won at all, and here it's said that he could go to the agenda today. First, I think we're late with the rebalancing proposal, and it's important that the budget is rebalanced, but let's not break things over our knees. It's time we got him, so it's time for him to go to the Finance and Budget Committee. Secondly, no one here mentions a budget implementation report. Whether it is done, with which date it is done, what kind of items it is. I think it's two inseparable. I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not present here, to say whether we have a report on the implementation of the budget, whether it has been done and I insist that we get this budget rebalance. I'd like so much, and I'd like to get back to work at last.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9559	I thank my colleague Miličvić. Mr. Kunić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9560	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I generally accept the views and views of the predecessors, but it would not be good if we did not realise a few facts that Parliament is becoming a transmission of one's desires. Almost a member of 105 entered the constituency, and even I suggested once that something should go in the shortened procedure of 105 on the suggestions of others. Come on, let's leave that article 105. Well, you can tell by Article 105. So I advocate that we finally take a stand once and really think about the issues when something is put on the agenda. The matter of the budget is a very serious matter and I agree with the predecessors, that it cannot go to such a finding, that it must go to the very least in accordance with Article 104, but I differ a little about the Law on indirect taxation, here an important procedure as someone pointed out, not only the procedure but also essential issues. We know that a commission has been formed, that it's been working on it for a long time. If political had been reached, a political consensus had been reached on the issue, but I would have advocated the procedure here anyway. He would ask that the entity governments, i.e. the entity assemblies, be declared to accept this law, i.e. to accept the transfer of jurisdiction from entity to BH institutions. Because this is entity jurisdiction, and before it comes to procedure in the 19th Assembly, I ask the Council of Ministers to ask the entities to declare the law so that we can make the right decision on the matter. Question of Article 13 of the Election Commission's request. These are not, these provisions are also very essential, very essential. The issue of the judiciary with us, I hope to come to the agenda of this Parliament's judiciary. Court of Enclaves, off the grid. There's no control. There's no balance of power, so it's contrary to the principle of division of power and that's the fundamental principle of the rule of law, and we don't have it. I believe a debate will be opened in this House on the matter. Therefore, I suggest that Article 12 go into a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 104, not 105. So, I accept point 12, I accept Mr Gligorić's proposal. So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9561	I thank Dr. Kunić. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9562	I thank the honourable members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we are discussing to remind you of the draft agenda whether it is. Among other things here in this proposed agenda at point 13, we have a little reminder of the Commission's work on the general elections in 2002. If anyone else remembers the election was just over a year ago. We are at one of these points of the agenda today, and here we are almost an hour and a half of the debate on two very important potential points of Parliament's agenda, which is at a permanent session. There is something wrong or late last year's election report in October or we are late in some dynamics to discuss the budget or the Law on indirect taxation. Let me start two replicas before I suggest something.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9563	I'd like to ask my fellow MPs to hear from you. I beg you for a moment if you need a break, but let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9564	I had no need to intervene business on the construction of my colleague Gligorić, the monsters of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let me really mention if it really is or if my colleague Gligorić thinks it is, then this is the House of Monsters, and you are the Monster Messenger, is it so? I mean, I don't even think it's regrettable. Secondly, counterpart Kunić mentioned earlier that any debate on the Law on indirect taxation, in one way, should be included in the timing, so that the entity government, i.e. entity parliament, is first declared. This state Parliament, the Law on indirect taxation, is a state law. And I don't see any legal or constitutional or any foothold to adopt or debate in one state law, conditioning 20 statements of entity parliaments or governments, and I don't think it's a good thing that we start the debate at all, because then we're going to take a detour from the essence of the law itself and the reform flows in these two areas. When it comes to the agenda proposal, respecting all your arguments, especially fellow Špirić, as it is a fellow member of the profession, and I know that it is very well aware of the reform on the economic area and when it comes to indirect taxation and budget rebalancing, and as chairman of this House, I also respect his argument of respect for procedures, given that we are in a permanent session, I suggest you schedule a session tomorrow morning, to declare procedure 104. If you can't process this today, when it comes to the Law on indirect taxation. Otherwise, I must tell you that as an MP for this House today, 13. I didn't get the Law on indirect taxation on the 10th. Therefore, I can consciously, even though I know the content, I know the essence of economic reform, I can plead for the procedure, but I am not in favour of this Parliament discussing anything unless we have received a minimum of hours before the meeting of this House. Secondly, while my colleague Belkić, on behalf of the MPs' Club, has well highlighted the views of the Party for BiH, I would like to remind myself of a discussion at the last session of this house, which is a strange path that laws are being adopted in this country. I, it was said here by the chairman of the Council of Ministers that all political factors have adopted this law. And I remind you that Parliament is the highest legislative body in this country. So somehow I'm already starting to feel like a filter or a form that needs to raise my hand for any reform course and I suggest really respecting the importance of all reforms, chairing to open up, or give time to exhaust the debate on this Parliament and to pass laws as well as other normal states. Secondly, I am sorry that there is no chairman here, although all the criticism related to budget rebalancing went to his address, I would like to remind you that the Presidency is a rebalancer of the budget. The Bureau proposed this procedure, which goes beyond the rules and common rules, the Law on Budget Implementation or, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Implementation Act may go in accordance with the procedures laid down for the laws, but the budget itself cannot. Therefore, I remind this Parliament that we can discuss the budget in accordance with the specific procedures relating to the budget, and when it comes to the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the implementation of the budget, then we can comply with the procedures relating to the other laws. Furthermore, I want to remind you again of today's date, the 13th 10th of the year remained 74 days straight. We're here to discuss whether we're going to put the agenda item on the budget rebalance. If we put her on, she'll be traveling for a while. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9565	I beg you, so I have no intention of shortening the discussion but to stick to the Rules of Procedure so that there will be no intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9566	I'll try as short as possible to comply with what I'm going to suggest and give some explanation in normal states. This is the time of the end of one and the beginning of the second fiscal year.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9567	Please, a little patience. Let's get this debate serious, if you want to work. To listen to each other, so past time, I warn the Rules of Procedure, but to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9568	So this is the time, in the normal states for discussion, that is, the end of one fiscal year and the beginning of the second fiscal year and the debate on the draft budget for next year. And, in that sense, I would like to suggest the following. First, to consider the Council of Ministers, given this remaining 74 days. That ongoing problems in the financing of institutions, the state institutions of BiH, are resolved in line with the possibilities provided by the Budget Implementation Law. Aware of the problems facing this Parliament, i.e. before the Council of Ministers and the RES, in view of the procedure and the debate on the rebalancing of the budget itself and the amendments Zakn the Budget Implementation Act. Secondly, if the Council of Ministers, or the Resort Ministry, therefore also considers it necessary for the Bureau to now adopt under a rapid budget rebalancing, i.e. the amended Budget Implementation Act, then I suggest that they do the maximum. And that is, to deliver to this Parliament a report on the implementation of the budget for the previous period, with an argument for budget rebalancing and, in particular, with an argument for the urgency of adopting budget rebalancing, a month or almost a month and a half before the end of this calendar year, and to send it immediately to the members of the BiH Parliament. I would just like to mention that, as an MP of this Parliament, I did not receive a budget rebalance on 13 October, nor was it amended, or a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Budget Implementing Act. I suggest that it be put in line with this proposal on the agenda. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9569	I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word. I would ask, really, please, the debaters to direct their discussion in order to get to the agenda, we lead, here are two hours on two points that aren't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9570	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be both brief and practical. I'm talking on behalf of a mixed club, and you know who it's about, since there are three parties in it. I'm going to talk about three points of the imposed problem here, because I think that one big part of the time has been taken away by people who impose a problem without need. First of all, the Electoral Law, which was put into the agenda later, I don't think that Mr. Chairman has explained enough how you explained it at the Expansive College and, I don't think Mr. Gligorić would have any problems with that point, given that it's about cancelling the doll in which the Election Commission should continue to work, and we don't see the complexity of this problem, as we now see it from another point. I suggest that it be on the agenda as you suggested. Secondly, the Law on the System of Individual Taxation, I suggest that today it is only a vote on the procedure to go and accept and a plea from the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I think it is our goal, and it is time that we can do it in quality within this deadline, which is offered by Article 104, yes, if we want to do it. Third problem, budget rebalance problem. I think Mr. Terzić, well, someone mentioned it, pushed into the fire. He should have, in my opinion, that today, and I suggest that this point is not accepted today, to come and apologize on behalf of those three empty chairs, I suggest that they be carried away from this, because there have never been people who should have brought this problem, and not by the courier to send and put it into the fire of no use, because this does not drink water, since no one in this room, at least from ordinary, under the alleged signs of MPs, has a letter written about this rebalancing. I wish they'd put it on the table to go. So, I suggest, in other words, that this rebalancing is not going today, but that the Kolegijum should take on the task of sitting with the Council of Ministers and this gentleman from the Presidency and agreeing on what is the shortest possible and telling us and setting it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9571	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I'm begging you, we need to hear from you. The shortening procedure of the College is over. You've got that information, but I can't make you give up the discussion. This is in accordance with points 106 and 107. The Rules of Procedure excludes the jurisdiction of the College. We've shortened the procedure. You'll be given information when the House session is scheduled. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. He's giving up. Thank you. 23 I think this is a good contribution to moving on. Col. Sead Avdić reported, Dr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. It's all in order, Živković goes and Jovanović goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9572	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored members of the Council of Ministers, I, too, want and support the chairman-in-Office that the agenda, which the chairman of the Council of Ministers has proposed today, is the adoption and consideration of the adoption of budget rebalancing, objectively support and give confidence to the College, who has simply defined the deadlines and, I expect from the next seven to nine days, a re-session of the House of Representatives, which will have on the agenda a simple review of the budget of BiH institutions. Noting that by October 15th objectively we need to get a draft budget of BH institutions for 2004, by the BiH presidency. I ask you in this context to take all measures to get this document's House of Representatives. That's below two. Three, I would also like to announce the views of a mixed club, which simply expects the law on indirect taxation to gain trust and be on the agenda today and vote on the procedure. Clearly, according to Article 104, the more the law is of vital interest to BiH, from the aspect of reintegration of economic space, in particular, simply with the procedure that will be ahead of us and which will certainly be burdened with the amendment phase, in this context, I do not expect a simple quick, easy and simple procedure of adopting this law, but rather with a very exhaustive procedure and a solution to the law on indirect taxation. So it would be good to define today and to consider and adopt the procedure under Article 104 and nothing more. That's below three. Finally, we think to tell you, objectively this discussion of the agenda, which has spent an hour and a half and more time, warns that, simply, BiH does not have a parliamentary majority, that the parliamentary majority cannot agree on the agenda and that it warns the simple public that, objectively, both the Council of Ministers and parliamentary majority must take responsibility for what is happening. So, I'm warning you once again, the debate of the hour and a half on the agenda is inadmissible and, I would suggest, if the chairman is already having a discussion to take a break, a break, that the extended college meets and that we simply take a stand, a simple stance, and we go to the House of Representatives, if we can't do otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9573	I thank my colleague Avdić. I beg you, there's no need for a break, we're going to make a statement about the agenda and the suggestions. The discussion should take as long as MPs think they should discuss it. Now everyone should have the perception of the time ahead. Mr. Munib Jusufović came to the floor. He's giving up. Thank you, Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Živković answered his word. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9574	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the representatives of the Council of Ministers, particularly the chairman, are not here, I did not want to report when he made the incorrect allegations, and it was about the budget, that MPs here were under pressure from the international community and that they indicated that there was going to be a debate on the rebalancing. I think it is an incorrect allegation, because it is true that we have then violated both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, but we have also concluded this ministerial council that after 60 days, or 90 days, it will bring rebalancing. For that reason, and also, from a few of the other grizzlies that we've heard of here today, I don't trust the Council of Ministers with anything that this speaker says. I also ask the IMF, chairing this parliament, to demand a statement that there have been three months of negotiations on budget rebalancing, because I think it is wrong to constantly attack other institutions, which cannot come out here and defend themselves, because we have been put in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure again and to say again at the Council of Ministers that this parliamentary assembly of votes is saying the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9575	I thank Dr. Živković. Mr. Jovanović reported the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9576	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here, you see, we today of the 18 points of the agenda have 8 by emergency procedure. Eh, now we'll see those who have criticised this procedure, to see how much they're voting against us today and, right Mr. Terzić when he says, when something comes from the High Representative, then you all vote yes, and when it comes from someone else, then you vote differently. What I specifically want to say, and that is, I have a note to the order of the agenda points, I think, maybe, I don't know who was making the order, but logically, it means that point 5 is specifically that the law, the consideration of the law on high court and prosecution council, is before point 3 that it is about amendments to that same law or, possibly point 4, when it comes to subsequent amendments and additions. That is, to say the logically, logically done code seems to me 8 and 9 so first it is passed law, and then it is proposed to amend it and supplement it, and here I see that, also point 6 and 7 well I see here that the second official messenger, but it means 6 and 7 are, in my opinion, the same, the proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH by emergency procedure, so the 6 and 7 are exactly the same. So I suggest that point 5 be under regular number 3 and then in order to compare. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9577	I thank my colleague Jovanović, but I must, of course, draw attention to that we know that the business opportunity for imposed laws is to take them according to the procedure of Article 105 so that we can change them. I don't think there's a charge here to convince anyone of our rules of procedure. The second thing, here is the agenda set out according to the date of publication in the Official Messenger and Orders as some law is imposed, so we had it in mind and, it seems to me, there is no logic to accept this amendment and if I respect your request. The order has been taken here, as a law has been imposed and published in the Official Messenger and, that it is a normal procedure, this makes sense, but if you insist that we put it to a vote, I will put it to the vote, but I ask you in writing, but here I think this is enough explanation for my colleague Jovanović not to insist, because, therefore, our principle was that, as it was published in the official messengers, because it is about imposed laws. If I may ask you not to plead, we'll waste our time. Thank you very much. Thank you for your understanding. Mr. Križanović Jozo answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9578	Gentlemen Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I can respect the full reasons for the urgency of budget rebalancing for this year, especially because this is the time when we should consider the budget for next year. Also, I can fully accept the explanation that the chairman, Špirić, gave about this and what I want to say in the end. I think we've lost a lot of time because of, I'd say, the negligence of our collective in running this session. In fact, we've talked a lot today about budget rebalancing, and we don't have an authorised promoter here. Therefore, we had to stick to our rules of procedure and, in line with that, simply, I mean ultimately propose that we are not at all saying today about budget rebalancing, especially because, as far as most MPs can see, they have not received the proposal for rebalancing at all. As far as the law on indirect taxation is concerned, there is, to say, an authorised proposer, there is a requirement and, possibly, we could declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9579	I thank my colleague Križanović. I'd pray you don't really put responsibility where it doesn't stand. I have informed you about the position of the College at the beginning of the session, however, this debate was initiated by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but for the sake of the elevation of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, you were all reporting and participating in the debate. I warned you in half the debate that we were wasting our time, but here we are, hopefully, at the end of the debate. Mr. Selim Bešlagić answered the question. Thank you. No more debates. I'm closing the debate. 26 So for all there is a democratic procedure and, these charts for and against and abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, about 20 MPs participated in the debate, with some participating two or three times in replicas. The debate lasted as long as it lasted, now we plead. We have one, therefore, proposal from the gentleman in written form Tihomir Gligorić to make the draft law amending and supplementing the Electoral Law by emergency procedure and in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure shall not be adopted, but shall be referred to the Amendment to the Act in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So Tihomir Gligorić is looking either for the point or for a change of procedure. Well, if we don't accept this procedure, then we need to know exactly what to look for or take down the point or change the procedure. So, you're looking to take the dots off the agenda. We can't change, on behalf of the promoter, we can't change the procedure. If we don't vote, it means it's going into regular procedure. So, who is it to remove this point of the agenda, at the request of MP Mr Gligorić? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, out of the 37 MPs there were 11-against 18-tent 8. Therefore, the request of MP Tihomir Gligorić was not accepted to remove the point on a regular number 12. Let's move on to the plea. We don't have written requests. So, we have the initiative of the Prime Minister's Presidency to present Parliament in a brief procedure on the law on indirect taxation. So, to plead today on the procedure and if you are not in writing that request, I am obliged to make a statement to Parliament. Who is it to accept this initiative, to be included in the agenda, Article 104? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 37 present 27 for - versus 9 - 1 abstention. I guess you didn't count well, I counted more, but it doesn't matter, we're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from RS for? So, of the 37, entity, therefore, from the Federation for 23 – from RS 4 – I realize that he did not get an entity majority. He's going for a match. I'm asking you, if you'd like, if you'd like, we can schedule a press conference in front of the cameras. Is there a consensus? There isn't. We're going to definitely make a statement. 27 Who is against the Federation? Who's from the RS against? Ladies and gentlemen present, therefore, against RS 8 - the Federation does not mind. So this point is included in the agenda. Get into the agenda. Please be nice, just to arrange which agenda point to be. The last item of the agenda, since it was declared to be a procedure. Do you agree? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, no further statements on the agenda. I find that we have adopted the following agenda: 1. Record of the 18th and 19th session of House of Representatives 2. Legislative questions and answers 3. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. On a provisional basis, the law was declared by the High Representative, published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 26/02; 4. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Ex post Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law on a provisional basis declared high representative. Published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 35/'02. 5. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the High and Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law on a provisional basis declared by the High Representative. Published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 35/'02. Six. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law on a provisional basis declared by the High Representative. Published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 24/02. Seven. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law on a provisional basis declared by the High Representative. Published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" number 3/03. 8. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal of the BiH Prosecutor's Law, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law on a provisional basis declared by the High Representative. Published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 24/02. Nine. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law on a provisional basis declared by the High Representative. Published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 3/03. Ten. Proposal for an Air Force Act BiH - Second Reading 11. Law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities' institutions – first reading 28 12. Application by the Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure; 13. Report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to conduct the 2002 general elections in BiH; 14. Information from the investigation committees, so-called Case of "State Impact"; 15. A report by the Council of Ministers on initiatives and activities so far on the construction of the Corridor Vc highway; 16. Determining the composition and the work of the Research Commission to determine the spending of the donations, which it received from BiH; 17. Giving consent to the cancellation of the bilateral agreement on trade-economic relations between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary; 18. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Cooperation in Education and Science, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece on Cooperation in Culture, Education and Science, (c) Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, (e) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cultural, Education and Sport Cooperation, (f) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments, (f) Agreement between BiH and the Netherlands in International Road Transport, (g) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Co-operation in the field of Education, Science and Culture, (h) Basic Agreement on Co-operation between BiH and the Kingdom of Spain, (i) Agreement on Cultural, Scientific, Scientific and Technical and Technical Cooperation between the Council of BiH and the Government of 19th). The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the law on indirect taxation, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the debate and adoption of the agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes with the 18th and 19th sessions of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening a discussion on the record. Who answers the word. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9580	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, one small intervention. It's the 18th session minutes. Please, we agreed that no matter what the oral questions are asked, they should be applied in writing. I have also attached what is in the record and what I have written is not decidently prescribed, so I ask that the correction be carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9581	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. A colleague called Altić Muhamed. He's giving up. Thank you. Are there any more debaters on the agenda? There isn't. I suggest we adopt this agenda, with the suggestion of colleagues, Moranjkić. Who's for the record? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. We unanimously adopted the minutes of the 18th and 19th sessions. Ad.2. Parliamentary questions and answers have been answered by the MPs of Filip Andrić. Does Mr. Andrić have a comment on his answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9582	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I asked the main and responsible editor of Federal Television Mrs. Marija Topić Crnoja at the 18th session. The question was why does it allow the Federal Television in its programmes to call Herceg-Bosnian County an illegal name for the Lithuanian Canton? Here I'm going to add even that it's a name that's a little bit of an insult to at least half the people of that canton. The answer I didn't get from being asked, the answer I got from who I didn't ask the question, which is the press service of federal television, and she answered me questions I didn't ask, which is that the Constitutional Court once abolished the names, that's what it says about the county's position. So we don't even have the right to set a name for ourselves, let alone. So I didn't ask that question and I got the answer to that question. And, so I didn't get an answer to the asked question, so I'm asking the editor-in-chief of Federal Television, Mrs. Crnoja Topić, to answer my question at the 18th session. Thank you. I don't think that's an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9583	I thank my colleague Andrić. I am opening an opportunity to ask new parliamentary questions. Who's answering for a word? kolega Jahić, Moranjkić, Dr Hadžiahmetović, Novaković, Altić, Dr Šivković, Dr Muratović. So, we'll all have a chance. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9584	After writing to Vienna's Dipres, BiH Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanić reportedly said that if Kosovo becomes independent, it would immediately raise the issue of the status of the Croatian and Serbian people in BiH. I quote: "Then the question would be why they can and we can't. Among Bosnian Srbin and Hrvat, there remains an idea of secession from the common state." He reportedly said Mr Ivanic. If these statements are correct, this would be a case of an inadequate and tenorous step by the BiH foreign minister and this statement by the internal problem of another country, it binding on the future of the state that he is a functioner. Also, this statement indirectly calls for the division of BiH unless the situation in Kosovo is resolved in favour of, apparently, the official Belgrade. I demand a clear stance on this statement from the Council of Ministers and the BiH presidency, which is in charge of leading the external half-way. If the writing of Vienna's Dipres, in connection with this statement by Mr Ivanić, is incorrect, I ask that in this case the Council of Ministers deny incorrect allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9585	Thank you. The word is Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9586	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am still expressing my dissatisfaction that I am not responding to asked parliamentary questions. So far, I have not been answered by a dozen MPs, because she was a little bit less than a question. I thought I'd give up never to do that for this pay phone again, but I saw that I was going to the water of those who, right now, won't do their job. My question, therefore, would have been. The news has come to the public, and it has been manipulated for a long time, that someone on behalf of this country has contracted and approved the sending of a unit of our BH army to Iraq. The truth is, I don't know what component I'm asking. Who's in the name of who did it? If he did or works? Will this parliament be officially aware of it, or will it decide? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9587	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Dr Hadžiahmetović. Let's just hear from each other since we're gonna take a break after the parliamentary questions. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9588	It's short notice. When it comes to components, it's probably the Navy. I belong to the order of those MPs, who also did not get answers to the already-reserved questions. I'm suggesting to the College that she seek review of the services of outstanding questions, so that, perhaps, she's initiated, she's being speeded up by the resolution authorities. My question, who, and in accordance with what dynamics reforms are being conducted in the transformation of the Public TV Service and, along with the parliamentary initiative, to ask the ministry for information on this topic and to put it on the agenda of one of the next Parliament meetings. I will only remind you colleagues and colleagues that this home has also appointed members of the Commission to conduct a nomination contest in this area, but we do not have any information on the situation, and in particular on the direction of reform in the area of the Public TV Service.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9589	I thank Dr. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9590	First, I would like to inform the House that I have never received an answer to the parliamentary question, which referred to the landowners on which the Bárbara Barbara is located, and I have said several times here that, or warned that I do not have an answer and I do not have one today. At this session, I'm going to ask the next question. When will the citizens of Serbian nationality, the owners of the facilities in Dobrinja I and IV receive urban consent for the facilities for which they have received solutions for taking over the public area? Secondly, according to which decision is the dislocated 16 objects, contrary to the agreement of all relevant representatives of the authorities? I'm asking the Council of Ministers and I'm asking for a written answer. In fact, Mr Šeredan Dobrinj i and IV's arbitration decision, practically, from the RS, therefore, belonged to the Federation of BiH and at that time, means, when decisions were made, about 80 objects were found in the area, which were owned by Srbin. At that time, between President Canton, Mr Hadžidedić, the head of the municipality of Novi Grad, Mr Damir Hadžić and the representative of the owners of these facilities, and representatives of the RS entity, agreed that these facilities would not be touched in the next five years. It is also agreed that all documents, which these facilities had free of charge, will be free of charge to the owners and thus, practically, this disputed situation will be resolved, at least for the five years. Unfortunately, no such agreement has been respected, so here and after three years the owners of these facilities have not received urban consent, and then, of course, they are also prevented from working in these facilities, because without urban consent they cannot get work permits. I note that they have received solutions on the exemption, i.e. the takeover of public areas, and that these solutions have, in some way, been made aware that 32 of the agreement that I mentioned earlier, which, unfortunately, is not. 16 objects have already been dislocated, and I demand that it be terminated until an earlier agreement is respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9591	I thank my colleague Novaković. We're not going to move the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jahić answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9592	Dearly respected presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing all of us sitting here in BiH, where pensioners seek their rights, which do not comply with the applicable positive legal rules. They're just asking them not to get cold, to be fed up, to somehow survive that age as people with respect. I wouldn't be giving you what you want right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9593	Question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9594	Mr. Chairman, I'll tell you what I said and why I came out. I went out because of this, and I am telling you, and I am telling you, because none of the elected representatives, nor the executives, have since the end of the war raised a question of the social status of the public, especially the social status of the pensioners. Please, are we not ashamed that this population of pensioners - a pensioner who counts something about 500,000, who are our voters, who have chosen us here, and we are not discussing it, but they are looking for their rights on the street with demonstrations. Please, the pensioners are dying, the mortality rate is increased, because they have nothing to eat, they have nothing to warm up with, and they can't buy drugs, because they don't have any money for it. And, now, if at the entity level it is not resolved, if it is not resolved at the level, then it should be settled at the level of the state and of this Parliament and I ask on behalf of the Pensioner Party, the pensioners, to set up a thematic conference at this home and to discuss the social situation of the pensioner.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9595	I thank you, but it's not a parliamentary question, we appreciate the weight of the problems you bring up and it's not a parliamentary question, and I think that might be your position at one of the next sessions. Thank you. The word was further answered by Mr. Hasan Muratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9596	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I have two brief questions first here internally. Could we, before each session, get to the agenda map and all the material to be considered at the session or to wait for us in this 33th place or to be in some room, so who wants to take them? I've been testing, I need one material, and I couldn't find it, and it's very important, I won't say which one for this session. I couldn't even find one of my colleagues. Second question. Under whose control is the disposal of waste organizations, international organisations present in BiH and, if it is not controlled by our authorities and waste-related companies, how long will it be? It's a very short explanation. There is information to be delivered in containers of hazardous waste to this country and to be deposited on dumps that are not controlled by this authority or burned in incinerators that are not controlled by these authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9597	I thank Dr. Muratović. Dr. Živković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9598	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, firstly to express my regret, which I have not yet received an answer to the question of calling, or maintaining a census in BiH. I was taking that question orally, so I asked it in writing, so, here, it's still nobody's going to answer that question. Obviously, the May Force in BiH, which does not want to be the issue at all from this pay phone and mention and that in the end, the truth of how many of us in BiH we have, how many missing, how many refugees we have, etc. I don't know any more ways I could ever get an answer to that question. Otherwise, my real question Mr. Moranjkić took part. He obviously has more information that there is such a unit that went to Iraq. I intended to ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. to extend that question, because I believe that I will answer that such a unit does not exist and that they intend to form a military formation, which will be at NATO's disposal to the military alliance, especially if we cannot implement a double criterion in this country that we are all declaring NATO's Partnership for Peace, and that we can't wait for us not to enter there, because after that we will have an obligation to have such a unit and not to ask us where that unit can and should go anywhere in the world. The question I want the Council of Ministers to deliver to me in writing concerns how many young people in Europe have been sent to colleges or postgraduate studies in front of BiH, whether they are financed by the entity budget or by the state of BiH, whether by a college or by a foreign state in the last five years? I ask this question because we have witnessed that countries, far ahead of us, on the road to European integration, have achieved this by stimulating and stipending young people, so that they have come back with a new way of thinking, which, apparently, even in this assembly we cannot overcome in the post-war period, have brought improvement to our country. I therefore also submit from this speaker an initiative chaired in writing for the signing and award of a hundred scholarships for studies in prestigious colleges across Europe, and I refer the initiative to the Council of Ministers to consider this in the budgeting process for next year. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9599	Thank you, Dr. Živkovuć. Mr. Selim Bešlagić answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9600	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, honored guests, I asked Mr. Ivanić to give us a written and oral explanation of the statement in Vienna. As you can see, there is no today, here is Mr. Jahićje, who reiterated that question. Meanwhile, he made a statement upstairs that only Bošnjak support BiH's suit against Yugoslavia. There is now a correspondence between the BiH presidency and Mr Ivanić that I am now asking for the state within the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Presidency to be explained to this parliament, and to take appropriate measures, because this is how integrity is disrupted, or rather BiH's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9601	I thank Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9602	Speaker of the dom, Mr. Špirić answers the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9603	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would not be asking this question if I were not convinced that BiH has done damage to BiH's reputation, a candidate who is proposed on behalf of BiH. Namely, I will visit you to make a decision on behalf of BiH as judge, an international judge in Strasbourg, at the last European Parliament meeting. I think the way our delegation took place, in the sense that it disappears behind all three candidates, is not good, that we, there, show that we do not have a state delegation, but a transnational delegation, which is unable to defend the position of BiH's state institutions. Namely, I must say, this parliament, the College, the BiH presidency is behind all three candidates and that in the way that Dr Ljiljana Mijović was discussed, is improbable, dishonest and is not good for BiH. It is not good that BiH sent such a candidate. It is not, therefore, the way it was represented. It's a good thing Dr. Ljiljana is a candidate, but the way this debate was conducted has done harm, not to the candidate, but also to the state of BiH. In that sense, I want us to initiate one debate here, there is no need for Ambassador Gaon to transfer there after the end of the session, that the BiH state is behind all three candidates, but that, for the sake of such debate and such leniency, I would say to that candidate, send a letter to Parliament, the European Parliament, in which we ask that this procedure be completed at the first next session and that the institutions, or the BiH Parliament, are behind all three proposed candidates. It is a way to remove the stain from BiH, to remove an unwarranted stain that has already been applied to the candidate Dr Ljiljana Mijović. I ask you to give, this question has been addressed to all of us, and here I am, as President of Parliament, not to answer it, but it seems to me that it would be good, wise and smart for Parliament to, after all that has happened, which was in the BiH media, not simply to be silent, but to send a denial, and to say that the institutions of the BiH state, including the Parlment, are behind all three candidates and that 35 asks the European Parliament to complete the procedure at the next session. Of course, the candidate who gets most votes will be BiH candidate. I would ask you to accept this question and initiative and send that memo to the President of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9604	Mr. Hasan Muratović reporting for word. I don't want to open a debate. Mr Špirić has come up with a point of parliamentary questions and it is only possible to ask a question and no decisions are made within that point, but here,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9605	I'm reporting because of an incorrect quote. Our delegation agreed before the meeting and parliamentary political groups and before voting that they would say that we do not want to favour any political group, or group of political parties, any candidate and we have done so. So, we are in groups, political groups, who are discussing as well as the debated committee clubs, saying that we support the BiH state's proposal and that we do not want to suggest to the political groups in which we are present by any candidate. That's the first one. So we did exactly that. Second, the Bureau of the Assembly, in which I was also vice president, concluded after the assembly that the second round of voting would be held at the first next session and on the first day. It means, that simply as he put it to the vote, put it out of the vote, removed from the agenda the second round of voting, now put it to a vote and would not implement any other procedure, nor would it return any of that motion to elect judges. The third is an incorrect quote, Mr. Chairman, that you call it the European Parliament. The European Parliament is the Parliament of the European Union, and this is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9606	I thank Dr. Muratović. Of course, in these arguments, but at the next session, I will insist that Parliament stand behind all three candidates, because we are not naive that we did not follow the media within BiH that seven days there were letters around that candidate and that there, unfortunately, I could not read the holding of our delegation, but I appreciate that damage has been done and that this parliament must strengthen, if it stands behind all three candidates. To write about a candidate, as it was written, and to think that BiH is doing well, is not good. I regret not hearing the Delegaicje's attitude, as I hear it today publicly. So, I regret and I will insist on that at the next session, not to burden the assembly today, to be the item of the agenda in which we will conclude that we are behind all three candidates and to inform the competent European institutions. Thank you very much. No more reports, I apologize, Ivo Miro Jović. I didn't write it down. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9607	Dear gentlemen of the presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, I have one question today, which concerns the public prosecutor of the Herzegovic-Nretva County in Mostar. Why investigative actions have been launched, with a threshold of ten illegal or non-performing consents of construction, etc. or building permits, therefore, in front of ten facilities in Mostar City, whose owners are exclusively persons or associations of Croatian nationality? And it is known that the number of possible suspicious, provided that the Mostar building is much more than the owners of other nationalities.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9608	I thank my colleague Jović. Who's picking up the word? Nobody's answering. I'm concluding the agenda point, regarding the MP's touch and answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest a break by two o'clock. I ask the MPs to take advantage of this possibility to rest and continue at 2 o'clock. We're starting work. [[PAUZA]] I'm sorry, we've extended this break a little bit, but I guess we'll work harder after this break. I'd like the MPs to sit down and beg for work. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. This law was declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis. The law was published in "The Official Voice of BiH", number 26/'02 as indicated to you in the pre-term agenda you received I am opening the debate, first on the request of the Council of Ministers for the Emergency Tug, under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the raps. We're going to vote. So we're voting on who it is so that we can discuss this bill in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen, 28 MPs present. For 25 – versus 1 – abstention 2. I figure we have most of the entity majority. We're going to vote on the bill. 37 Who is it to adopt the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH on an urgent basis? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that with 26 votes for and 3 against, we passed the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Twenty-six for three abstentions, this is three against. I'm sorry, this is a service error. So 26 for 3 abstentions. Please take care of yourself. Thank you. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on ex post amendments and additions to the law on the high court and prosecutorial council of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. It is, therefore, a law on subsequent amendments to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The law, also declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis. It was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 35/02. I'm opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9609	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is aware that this will go well, but I cannot say in Article 3 when it comes to the age of judges, who are due to retire, so says the age of the BiH Court of Justice 70 years. And the age of Judge Brcko 67. Let me say it makes sense, but as far as the prosecutor, the state's attorney or BiH prosecutor is concerned, 65 and the prosecutor of the Brcko District for 67 years. I can only suspect that there's a judge in Brcko who's here somewhere near those years and, then, to set him up, he put him up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9610	I thank my colleague Jovanović. But I beg you, he's right when he talks about these non-sustainables, but we don't have to let the public know. We have no other option to correct these anomalies in the future, but to adopt the law in the same text so that what MPs see and I don't really block Mr. Jovanović or anyone that we already have amendments and additions to this law at the next session, on a proposal to even it out, but we don't have other options to correct it unless we adopt the law in the same text. Just so you know. Thank you very much. Is anyone still answering for a word? Mr. Džaferović is giving up, because he was thinking, exactly, of apotencing what I was talking about. I thank him. Is there any further discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 38 Who is it that we should accept the Council of Ministers' proposal to discuss this law under Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, of the 31 MPs who voted – 28 – against 1 – abstention 2. I find that we have both the majority and the entity majority. Let us, therefore, go to a definitive statement on the Proposal for a Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Who is it that we accept this law? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree, therefore, that with 28 votes for and 4 abstentions, we have adopted the proposal for a law on high and judicial and prosecutorial council of BiH. So, we passed that law. I'm thanking you. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9611	Point five.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9612	Is it 5? Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the BiH High and Judicial Council, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. This is about a full law on high court and prosecutorial council, which was also declared by the High Representative. The law was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 35/02. I am opening the debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to support the Council of Ministers' initiative to plead in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, of the 32 MPs present, 28 were for – 1 versus – 1 co-starred. I realize that we have a majority and an entity majority and we're going to go now for a statement of the law. Who's to adopt the bill on high court and prosecution council? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that with 29 votes for and 4 abstentions, we have adopted the proposal for a bill on high, judicial and prosecutorial council of BiH. Thank you. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. 39 Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. It is, therefore, a law containing 11 members. Please pay attention, to consider a legal proposal, which has 11 members and is published in Messenger number 24. I'm opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the raps. We declare the procedure under Article 105. Who is it to consider this law in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that with 29 votes for and 4 co-administers, we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, under Article 105. Let's go to the law firm. Who is it to accept the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that with 30 votes in favour and four abstentions, we have accepted the amendment and addition of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also thank the 7th item of the agenda. Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Here, so we have a bill containing 13 members, published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 3/03. On a provisional basis, the law has been declared by the High Representative for BiH. I am opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers to declare this law in accordance with the procedure of Article 105 of our Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the Council of Ministers' initiative to discuss this law under Article 105. Rules of Procedure? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, ladies and gentlemen, I find that with 30 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' initiative to discuss the Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Court of Justice, under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 40 We move on to a statement of the law. Who's to accept this law? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, I realize that with 30 votes for and 4 abstentions, we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Thank you. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal of the BiH Prosecutor's Law, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The law was declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis and was published in 8 "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 24/02. I am opening a debate concerning the request of the Council of Ministers to declare this law in accordance with Article 105's procedure. Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the Council of Ministers' initiative to plead in accordance with Article 105's procedure on this law? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I call upon the MPs to exercise the right to vote. We have a situation here that 36 MPs are present that only 34 voted, but of those 34 voted 32-2, I find that we have a majority and entity majority, and that we have adopted a proposal from the Council of Ministers on the Proposal of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. We're going to make a statement about the law. Who is it to support this law? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, I realize that with 32 votes for and 4 abstentions, we passed the Proposal of the BiH Prosecution Act. I thank you and we move on to the 9th point of the agenda. Ad.9. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. It's about amending the Prosecution Act. On a provisional basis, the law was declared by the High Representative, and it was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 3/03. I am opening a debate on the Council of Ministers' initiative to declare this law in accordance with Article 105's procedure. Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9613	I apologize to this mechanism they started voting on. I'll do it very briefly. Understanding the position in which this parliament is located when we meet with the laws imposed by the High Representative and the need to take them in order to possibly change them, the Party for BiH, the Party's Club considers and suggests that it would be good for Parliament to reach one conclusion, whether Parliament should draw one conclusion. Do these seven legal projects and amendments that we have just adopted, therefore, from points 3 to 9. That the ministry of justice in the Council of Ministers is tasked with submitting within 30 days to this parliament information on the course of judicial reform. So, at what stage, we're at, as far as we're concerned, because I think domestic authorities, or domestic institutions, absolutely don't have any information about what's actually going on in this area. I'll back that up next. We had an independent judicial committee that worked for three years and cost a lot of money. The job's not done. We have 3 prosecutorial councils whose deadline is to round up judicial reform, including the rules of appointment, etc. material and technical conditions of work, etc. So, it's certainly not going to happen, this project also costs a lot of money through these judicial councils. You saw today what Mr. Miloš Jovanović was saying, it's not just that. One law puts itself outside the scope of the provision of another law. If you're a little bit of this, you've been tracking what's going on here, so unknown practice, and some solutions are absolutely incomprehensible to us. And that's why we're asking the Justice Department to produce one complete piece of information. First, that it masteres the process, that eventually it corrects it in some way, to be together with the High Representative and there the people who do it, do it rather than just be his observer. I ask Parliament, it is the least we can do to at least in this way get involved in this reform, which is clearly being led past the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9614	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I'd like to ask my employees to stick to the agenda. It is on the agenda to discuss this law, not to dispute the initiative to be a special item of the agenda, to be a special item of the agenda of the next session, but today we are discussing, therefore, the advance of this Council of Ministers law. I thank you, I do not dispute at all that it was not and is too much of a story about judicial reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is not in line, it is not closely related to the law. Well, it is a theme, but it's not about this point. Who's next on the agenda? I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. 42 Who is it that we should accept the Council of Ministers' initiative to consider the draft law amending the law and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, I find that with 33 votes for and 3 abstentions, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' initiative to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Prosecutor's Law under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the law firm. Who's to accept this law? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So, I find that with 33 votes for and 3 abstentions, we have adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to agenda ten, that's A.D. 10. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's aviation is proposed by the Council of Ministers. At the 19th session of the 24th September Law proposal we adopted in our first reading. You ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament have a report from the committee in charge who supported the bill's proposal and adopted two amendments. At the plenary stage, we have an amendment to the MP, Momčilo Novakovič. I am opening a debate on the amendment and the draft law in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Novaković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9615	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues, I would like to inform the House that I am giving up the two amendments I have repeated, so that they are practically not in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9616	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Mrs. Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, please. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9617	I thank the chairman, I do not want to talk about the law, I fully agree with the new text of the Air Force Act, but I will agree on the amendment of the Commission for Transport and Communications. Amendment I, which logically one word, a term which should not even have its place in one law, suggests that it be deleted, therefore, fully agreed but I will address Amendment II. I recall Amendment II saying that the directors of two deputies, the Civil Aviation Directorate, are elected from the three constituent nations, taking care of national and entity representation. I think the practice and the Council of Ministers and the elections in the last two years, two to three years, is to take care of this and how it works. But this must not be a priority that will stand in the law of appointments especially in such positions in professional bodies dealing with a specialised or specific type of problem. I remind you it's the Civil Aviation Directorate. It is quite logical to say in some areas relating to the regulatory areas of civil aviation or, say, navigation, etc. We can't compete with someone who doesn't deal with that problem. The fact that this is in the law would lead any reader of the law to prefer national or entity membership, and that the profession is in a different plan. I propose not to adopt Amendment II to the Commission on Transport and Connections. But to take care of it as it is so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9618	Thanks to Hadžiahmetović, I just have to warn the business opportunity. The amendments have become an integral part of the text of the law and no one disputes that an MP can submit an amendment to the amendment in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in time. I regret that you did not use this right as an MP and there is no way out now, but to plead on the whole text. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a statement on the law in the second reading. I thank another colleague, Novaković, for giving up the amendment, so we will not declare the amendments. We therefore declare ourselves, on the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Air Force in the second reading. Who is it to pass this law? Who's against it? Who's being held back? There's no one here. I agree, ladies and gentlemen, that we unanimously passed the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act. 44 We move to the 11th item of the agenda, that's A.D. 11. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina In the first reading. For a reminder, I will say that the legislator of this law is MP Nikola Špirić. The bill was sent to you on June 06th of this year. It is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, whose opinion you received on 26 June 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the committee responsible, submitted a report on September 17th of this year. As you have seen, the Commission has supported the principles of the proposed law. I note that this is a debate in the House in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9619	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment and addition of the Law on Conflict of Interest are important, and they are mostly in themselves, according to my proposal, incompatible and the demands of the Permanent Election Commission, which is eager to come into line, to make changes to that law, in order to enable the work of the Permanent Election Commission. So all proposals of the Permanent Election Commission are included in this proposal. There is one amendment that has been defined and Dr Petar Kunić has slightly modified by Mr. Beriz Belkić. I'm glad there was an understanding on the committee. I have therefore, as a promoter, agreed to make it an integral part of the text of this proposal, and I ask you today if there is a possibility, if there are no requirements of clubs, parties for the spread of amendments, for the amendment phase, that today we try to connect, therefore, the first and second readings on this law, in order to empower the Permanent Election Commission to do one important job. So, I don't dispute if there are amendments, serious requirements for corrections, but if you don't have the strength to adopt these changes and supplement them in the second reading today after the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9620	Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's go, and Mr. Moranjkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9621	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm just one quick question. When I read this law, it all fits me, just because I'm an engineer and I'm not a lawyer, I'd like someone to tell me what these are methods used to determine an out-of-marriage friend, how it's determined, so that the Commission can work. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9622	What method to, well, know what is in the special legal practice of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal mate. I don't think you need a special interpretation of Mr. Moranjkić that's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9623	Every community of life that's not based on a mother, that's the definition of out-of-marriage.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9624	Yes, Mr Muratović, I ask you to listen. The word has Dr Hasan Muratović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9625	That if the motionary explains, he has experience.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9626	Yeah, that I have a bad experience in these extra-marriage communities, so I can't help you out here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9627	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, first let me say one general opinion of this law. I have reviewed and informed myself of this law, with such content, nowhere in the world exists. He's deeply intruding into some human rights. And for that reason, I suggest that perhaps the Electoral Commission, which is not now too busy, be in charge of access to a new law based on the experience of other countries that have these laws for a long time. For concrete remarks to this law, I refer to Article 95 paragraphs 1 and 3 which want these proposals to be included in the further adoption of the law. First, Article 1 should say what is not to be laughed and not what is to be laughed at. In law, it says where a elected official can work. It says, of course, where it can't, and then it writes where it can. All laws by nomote are defined in such a way that they are forbidden something and what is not prohibited is allowed. But if it stays as defined, that means what elected officials can do, and what I can't suggest, first, to erase the word and the like, it can't really stand in the law. And secondly, if it is not clear what is forbidden to add a word to foreign legal persons in what is allowed beyond the words of the associations. That means a man can work in a foreign company, etc. if elected official. It doesn't say here that he can, it says here what he can do, but what he can't write, and I don't think he should write what he can. In Articles 3 and 4, I propose that words be added – companies in majority state ownership. 46 So this is all that is forbidden, to be banned in enterprises of the majority state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9628	I thank Dr Muratović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Džaferović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9629	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning of our mandate, applying the Law on conflict of interest in the original form as declared by the High Representative, as confirmed by our Parliament, we have encountered serious problems in the application of this law. The Election Commission and the initiative to amend and supplement the law have indeed come forward. However, I am of course in favour of those who have caught up with the deal and have proposed one text of the law that should certainly specify the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities. However, I'm afraid that these changes and additions are not going one step further in creating a complete mess in this area. Be careful, when the law, when the law excludes something, it applies the principle of elimination and tax-listing and it is entirely right for counterpart Muratović, what an electoral official cannot be. Our member of the 1st law has taken the right to define what an electoral official can be. I'm asking you who's able to count all that an election official can be. And here I read this what's called the bill before the Electoral Law said what an election official is and what he can't be. The elected official cannot be the director of a public enterprise, the director of a private enterprise where the private and state ownership ratio is up to a certain percentage, it seems to me to be a percentage of 25% and worse. He can't be the director of the Privatisation Agency, he can't be if he's in the executive power, in the legislative authority if he can't be in the executive power. His close relative also points out. These things were thus clarified in the law. We now have a definition that says, be careful in Article 1 point 2 is changing and it should now be a norm that we will adhere to – elected officials, executives and advisers can carry out jobs in teaching or scientific, cultural and sports institutions, professional associations, NGOs, non-profit organisations, foundations, humanitarian organisations and the like, under the conditions laid down by the entity law on work and other regulations. Here, please, I'm talking about Parliament now, and I'm talking about MPs, I'm talking about people who aren't professionals, and I'm asking the question of the promoter. By accident, I know this area well, I am directly concerned and I am asking the question, could the MP of this House be a lawyer at the same time. From what I've read here, unless this professional association is a lawyer, and I don't know if it's an MP for this House can't be a lawyer. I thought of that. Look, I've just cited this as an example. You will remember many in areas that concern you, some 47 other examples. That's why it's very dangerous to take for granted and define what it is that a elected official can do. Well, it's normal for the law to settle what the elected official can't do, and then that's the solution to the so-called conflict, or conflict of interest. That's why I think it would be good, Mr. Chairman, that this is so good law in everything else, and I support it, but I'm merely pointing to this danger, that we today pass the law in first reading and support the principles of this law. Let's not go with the second-reading phase today. To allow another brief amendment phase, Mr. Chairman, to fix these things that can lead to even more confusion tomorrow than we have now. And I think that would be the way out of this situation. We may even ask our constitutional-legal commission, so that it prepares for us solutions relating to this Article 1 which is defined in this section. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9630	I thank my co-worker, Džaferović. Of course, I said if there's a mood today, if there's no mood to go into another reading, I don't mind even if I'm the pronoun of these changes, I agree with this finding by Mr. Muratović that he can't stand up and stuff, because this is still a bill, so I think we can accept in this amendment to delete the word and so on. Of course, it's more precise and better defined this amendment. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has therefore completed its work. So now they can be amendments to the amendments, but that's phase two. I would ask you, therefore, today I see that there is no mood to go and in the second reading we are discussing the Law on Principles and in the law in the first reading. Who's next to the word? Mr. Živković, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9631	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I support your intention to prepare your initiative in today's work only in the first reading, and I have found myself directly affected, and I believe that the fellow who is with me is a doctor, in this part is not a decadently listed what it means under similar and I don't see them writing between cultural, sports and health institutions. However, it is specific to our interest that, despite this work that I am doing here, gives me the right to remain in the business that I have left there for the next four years as long as my mandate is here, and I suggest that this member, meaning in Article 1 point 2, throw out this whole member and write only that elected officials carry executive functions and advisors, cannot perform functions that are not listed in the article where what they do not have to do is prohibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9632	I thank my colleague Živković. The word is Dr. Petar Kunić, please. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9633	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, therefore it is clear that those who participated in the debate did not read the Law of Conflict of Interest. They don't know the content of the law. The Law on conflict of interest excludes these categories listed from the restriction of the so-called income of one third of the salary, and all others who are professionals, of course, cannot be professionals in other organisations in companies and any other association. But he ruled out the law, the current Law of Conflict of Interest. He excluded these categories except for adding humanitarian organisations to Mr Belkić's proposal. So, if you want to be a professional in the Assembly, you can't work extra in other organizations, so you have to be professionals in the Assembly, except for these organizations, why these activities, why? Because these are deficiting activities. Especially teaching, scientific, etc. This you will find everywhere in the world that scientific organizations, that you can work with a particular professional job. But if this congregation concludes that other activities can be done, that will be the case. But until halftime, as foreseen by the entity's legislation. Otherwise it's accepted everywhere that you can work hours plus half the time. The existing Law on conflict of interest did not foresee this, but predicted a third. So one third of the salary, and from that we can conclude that he allowed you to be engaged somewhere else to one third, which is very little special in cut-off activities. That's why I'd ask you to understand this article. So this already contained the existing law, but we were the only ones who went to comply with the other legislation on our premises. So, up to half, but if this assembly concludes that you can work in other activities, in law, etc. Then that's fine, then we can give one general clause that will tell you you can work half the time, according to existing entity legislation.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9634	Do you have a member of point 1 of the original text? Do you have it on you? You don't. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9635	The word is for Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9636	Mr. Kunić, what you're talking about is an indisputable matter. And if you want my opinion, I will immediately tell you that I would be against anyone who works here in Parliament and pays here in Parliament that they can work anywhere else. The Law on conflict of interest allows people dealing with science, science, scientific, professional, humanitarian and other institutions to, despite being in a working relationship in Parliament, for example. I am now talking about Parliament or the Council of Ministers can deal with 49 to a certain level or when it comes to working time or some other type of measurement of engagement and in scientific, humanitarian and other institutions and institutions. And it's not a question at all. I didn't accidentally tell you, so we don't argue at all, Mr. Kunić, I would ask you just to listen to me, because I'm telling you, of course, to everyone else, but first of all to you, because you've potentified this issue in your debate. So it's not a question at all. I'm ready for a sharper criterion. That any of us working in Parliament can't be engaged, but I say, the existing law allows me to say 1/3, 1/2, I don't know that many hours, etc. etc. This isn't about that. This is about amending Article 1(2). The law on conflict of interest that regulates the question of what the elected official, whether he was a professional or was a volunteer, was here in Parliament and on the salary and on the cobweb or only on the cobweb, must not work, because the law does not allow him, because it is incompatible with that position. So it's said. If it were incompatible, I repeat, it can't be an MP and a minister, it can't be an MP and a board member, it can't be an MP and a director, it can't be an MP, whether he's a professional or a volunteer. This member, as his change is proposed, he goes on. And now he's mixing two things. The one you were talking about, and the one I'm talking about right now. And now to say that MP, I read this standard like this, Mr. Kunić. That, regardless of whether you're a professional or an amateur in this House, you can only work in as the law says here in the law to work in teaching or scientific, cultural, cultural sports institutions, professional NGOs, lists what you can do. And if you remember a volunteer here in Parliament and you don't have a salary in Parliament, but you're an MP no matter what you're not a professional, you can only do what this amendment predicts. So that's the problem. I, therefore, advocate that people who are not in a working relationship in Parliament, but are MPs that they can be for example lawyers, that they can be doctors. Now we have an example of a fellow who is directly concerned. If we adopt this provision, then let's assume colleague Živković is not a professional, he won't be able to be a doctor and do this job and he's doing this job today. That's why I insist we specify this thing, so this is a serious matter, because it's worth following that law later. That's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9637	I thank my colleague Džaferović, the word is Dr Petar Kunić. I would ask you to step out of this because this law is in the first reading, there is a possibility, therefore, of an additional amendment phase, we will determine to get out of this is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9638	I think we've figured this out, the truth you're right about the law on conflict of interest not making a difference between professionals and amateurs.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9639	Of course, that's essentially 50.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9640	And that should be defined in the second part, but you're wrong when you speak in general. Any rule can have an exception. This is exceptional in the previous law and now.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9641	Now it's a rule. Now it's a rule because they don't talk about who's a professional and who's an amateur.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9642	Although I must have spoken to the Electoral Commission, an expert man there who is the exception of those who are not professionally engaged. So, they can do their job normally, but I agree with you, I agree with you if it's not sufficiently precise somewhere else, to make that clear. There's no misunderstanding here.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9643	Well, of course, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9644	Here's the president of the Electoral Commission. I think we're completely in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9645	I thank Dr. Kunić. Here is a member of the Electoral Commission chairing it seems to me that Hilmo Pašić is right. For information therefore, a second reading should correct if there is inaccuracies to clarify it is not prohibited. So today we're talking about the law in first reading. Who's next to the word? Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9646	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, it seems to me that we have had one proposal here, but that proposal requires a special conclusion. In fact, the amendment phase has passed, so we don't have the opportunity to make amendments unless we make a special conclusion that will allow it. And I think it also meant such a proposal by Mr. Džaferović, I just came out to say that the SDS Club supports therefore, the continuation means the possibility of an amendment phase but I just want to say we just have to make this special conclusion possible. Otherwise, we can't do that. Article 87 and the other members who regulate this area do not allow the investment of amendments after this, completed this phase. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9647	I thank my colleague Novaković. I know I actually know that in the College, we're going to make a decision that, so here we are in consultation with the College, so by the 20th, this month is going to be an amendment phase of seven days. Who wants to submit an amendment to the amendment and that we have a law in the second reading. So I ask you today to commit ourselves to the law in the first reading. If there's anything that's inaccurate and needs to be improved, there's no reason, I should be the pronoun of these changes, and I have no reason not to accept any well-intentioned suggestion at all. I thought there was no dilemma, since there was no debate, and now that there are, we're going to have another reading, and we need everything that's inaccurate to remove it. I am glad that in the end, Dr Kunić and his colleague Džaferović agreed that this inaccuracy should be removed. So to define what can be professional and what an MP who is not in a professional working relationship, and of course what Dr Muratović was talking about. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. So we're pleading on the bill in the first reading. Who is it, to adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by MP Nikola Špirić. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that with one vote against, and with 34 for, we adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. And the conclusion, of course, is that by the 20th, therefore, the 10th phase of the amendment takes place that MPs can make amendments to the amendments. Thank you very much. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda, that's A.D. 12. A request from the Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Election Commission's request for an emergency procedure was delivered to the House on 3 October 2003. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention that these changes also concern conflict of interest, where the Election Commission stands at the point where one of these same, the same person cannot be on a different level of MP and delegate. We have such a case in this home, and it's about filling the vacant place of the Permanent Election Commission. I also want to say that we have formed, we have proposed members of a wider committee who will work with the Permanent Election Commission on amendments and additions to the permanent Electoral 52 law, and this commission works when the first draft changes take place, it will propose that to Parliament. But it seems to me that these amendments and additions that are required contribute to us, this representative council and the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For these reasons, we have accepted this initiative at an extended college, and you today, when we included this item of the agenda. So, I am opening a debate on the request of the Permanent Election Commission to make a statement on the Proposal for amendments to the law in accordance with Article 105. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it, to accept an election commission's request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 105? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with 30 votes in favour, and four abstentions, I agree that we have accepted that the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are pleading by an urgent procedure. We're going to vote on the amendment and supplemental proposal. Who's in favour of accepting this amendment and supplementation? Who's against it? Restraint? So I find that with 36 votes in favour, there were no abstentions, we passed the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the 13th item of the agenda, that's Ad.13. A report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to hold general elections in 2002 in Bosnia and Herzegovina Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that this was the item of the agenda at our 4th session, but that none of the members of the Permanent Election Commission were present as rapporteurs. Today I am pleased to find that members of the Permanent Election Commission are present today. And here I am opening up, opening a debate on the election commission's report. If the Electoral Commission, members of the Electoral Commission, appreciate that they need additional explanations, they can, but I think the MPs first need to hold the debate, so if they appreciate that they need to have the President of the Electoral Commission, there is no need. I thank the President of the Electoral Commission, the chairman of the Election Commission, Mr Hilmo Pašić, but here he is and 53 Mrs Lidija. Well, if there is a need to answer some questions, I thank them for having responded to the invitation to attend the session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the hearing and putting the report on the plea. Who is it, to accept the Report of the Permanent Election Commission on the course of implementation and the elections held in 2002? Who's against it? Who's being held back? There's no one here. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that we unanimously adopted the report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina with three votes, so abstention, I did not see. So, we adopted a report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission on the implementation of the 2002 general elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Members and the chairman of the Election Commission thank you for your presence. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, A.D.14. The Commission's information on the so-called state coup case, you're ladies and gentlemen, you've received a report from the Commission of Investigation. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? But before that, I'll just announce
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9648	Chairman, Home Mr. Špirić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9649	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 26 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, "The Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina" number 2000 The House of Representatives held on 10 September 2003 at the 18th session, formed an investigative commission composed of Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović. The Commission’s task of obtaining, within 10 days, the necessary and relevant information on the so-called State Impact case from the competent authority for the purposes of the House of Representatives. The investigation committee held its first session of 17 September 2003, and concluded that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, informed on the formation of the Investigation Commission and asked for full and relevant information on the so-called "state impact" case so that it could inform the House. Rod for delivery of information immediately and no later than 7 days. 54 Although the request was immediately forwarded to the designated authorities, no information was received from the same authorities. At the 19th session of the House of Representatives on 24 September 2003, at the request of the SDP MPs' Club, it was included in the Committee of Investigation's agenda on the accommodation of our MPs in the preparation of a "state blow" under allegations of chaos, bombings and intimidation. Since the Commission has not received information on what the House has been informed, it has been concluded that an urgent supply of requested information has been sent to the competent authorities. Since sending the conclusion to the competent authority of the home on 24 September 2003, the competent commissions have not received the requested information, the competent commission has not received the requested information, thus informing the House. In line with the conclusions adopted, the Commission shall submit information to the House on the basis of which it will inform the public and decide on the need for further work of the Commission and on the direction of its action. In this regard, we are also ready to seek the views of the House of Representatives. But I must say that during this session, I received written information, so I received written information that I failed to extract during this session, which is called the Official Secret, Emergency Ministry of Security, and this, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Investigation Commission. I have to say that here today I don't know what's in this envelope and even if I should know, but I have to, because it's carrying an emergency and strictly confidential, official secret, so either this or it has to take off the veil of official secrets so we can simply inform the House. But what I also want to say, on my behalf, Mr. Džaferović and Martin Raguž, we have received one piece of information. It is one idea in which one FOS intelligence officer complains, that although there are no findings, there is no reaction from the Federal Prosecutor's Office that the internal control of FOS is already conducting investigative actions against workers who had contact with the then head of intelligence, Mr Alibabić. It's about the people they're dealing with, so they're doing research in terms of creating some kind of responsibility, which they don't think is good and so they want to inform the Investigative Commission, and it's basically the only paper that I can inform this home about. And what I want, of course, as an MP, as chairman to say not on behalf of the Investigative Commission, but that the way the State Parliament is informed and that there has been no talk of what is called a coup, bombings represent one new affair, one terrible affair. That those who received the information, those who daily fill the daily papers with stenograms of conversations with individual persons, are not prepared to forward the same information to the state parliament, in order to put an end to it. And that's why I think today I don't want to be any decor, any make-up in that sense that the Prussian House is forming an investigative commission that's really going to run investigations and conversations. Who will not play deaf phones with any authorities in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I don't think there's any need for this Commission of Investigation within the members of the College to continue to operate this way, but in my view, it makes sense to strengthen and form the right Research Commission to come up with material, to get information. I cannot believe there is a law in this 55-nation state, and I can't believe the FOS law on which the information is given to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić and the Minister of Security, without getting it from the College or the President of Parliament, chairing Parliament and members of the College and one and the other House. I can't figure it out, getting it to the presidency without feeling the need to inform us what information they have. I guess this FOS law would have to apply and apply to all state institutions. But I have the impression here that this country is getting a little bit of information, a little bit informed in different ways, but that there is no hierarchy of responsibility for information, and that is why I insist that at least for the work of the future in which I think we will work as colleagues in accordance with the law and with the Constitution, it must be provided. And that's why I think it is necessary to expand the work of the Commission, so that's my proposal, and of course they are sticking to the majority's position in this House. It's a shame, it's a shame, and that in itself in a normal democratic state would already be a scandal. That there is no answer to Parliament's emergency, from those of whom we have asked. At Parliament's emergency, therefore, no one has the need to inform us whether or not he has, whether or not he has. There's information or there's no information. Whether you need to remove the secrecy from the documents or not. And to fill day-to-day sheets and publish stenograms and conversations. So, covert listening, unauthorized listening to people in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9650	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I will not deliberately propose any conclusion regarding the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent authorities are deafening themselves for the second time to seek information from this home, so I leave it to others to propose and draw a conclusion from that. However, I would like to remind you that a month ago at our 18th session, we decided, in addition, that at the next session that has already been passed and that, from our commission that we have formed then, we will open a debate on the information that the Commission will provide for us and will therefore inform the public and decide on the need for further work of the Research Commission and the direction of its action. I would not really owe and comment on a relationship like this today that I do not know by which time the Bureau, Council of Ministers and certain ministries repeats itself, so I would only suggest and affirm our request in terms of what Mr Špirić has already indicated, and that is that we believe that we should really strengthen and form an investigative commission, which will insist on this issue. Here is Mr. Chairman and my concrete proposal, therefore, to return to the original request and to re-form the Investigation Commission that will insist on this issue. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9651	I thank my colleague, Belkić, for his word, Mr Gligorić. Yes, of course, I thank my colleague Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9652	Ladies and gentlemen, last time I was talking about this problem, I was saying something to Mr. Lagumdžija, who did very important jobs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it was not correct to accuse him of a practical coup, a man who spoke abroad about values and spoke very correctly and affirmed Bosnia and Herzegovina. And no less than we accuse him of a coup. Or someone who accused him, I don't see him sitting here, would be correct if the answer were also politically. The next thing I want to say is that both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and all those who are obliged to deliver the information obviously ignored this Parliament and last time I spoke and I was against being sent again to the predsjdništvo and other competent authorities, because I knew that this would happen again, which is that the highest legislative House in this country is being ignored and also from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But at the same time they are working political intelligence services past the official intelligence service, which I think is a whole of three parts, so it has one policy and a better policy within it, and the data is brought to different addresses, but it is more dangerous that the political one informs timelyly and then politically eliminates people, primarily the opposition in this case and Mr. Lagumdžija, as a potential threat to change the authorities of course. I don't know how you're going to discuss and develop what practically these points of the agenda are going to be, but since you've misformed our MPs in the sense that you've used our MPs who are related to the so-called coup. There was a story about Mr. Lagumdžija, and now all of a sudden it's spread to our MPs, so you spread it. It's completely undefined, and it's a mistake of the investigative commission that we've formed and they haven't been well formulated. But speaking of which, if we were all MPs, then maybe it would be good for Professor Lagumdžija and for all of us who are dissatisfied with this condition to read the right book, and it's called Kurti Malaparta's State Impact Technology, which is forbidden. It's a book he says has brought him world glory, but he hates it above his soul. Eh, it says here how to crash state, how to make a coup. The statesmen read this, it was forbidden, democracy came, now we have it, but I recommend it to you all. If someone thinks the change of government within Bosnia and Herzegovina is a coup, then they're wrong. It's not in this book. So think about it well, these political qualifications you gave and said, and there's no one to talk about it. 57 Therefore, I ask you to approach the assembly majority of this problem with responsibility, to come out here as representatives of clubs, positions, congregational majority, and to say clearly what they think about this issue, or in this way will make it clear to the public that they are afraid of their bosses whose political intelligence services on their practical feet are bringing huge information, but in order to bring down the opposition in this case probably one perspective political party such as Mr Lagumdžija's SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9653	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Who's next to the word? I'm just asking for a little patience, who's still answering for the word? Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9654	After these, love statements I can really say anything very hard except that it is not clear to me, and here I agree with Mr Gligorić, the concept of our MPs. I really, uh, think you could use a happier term here in terms of some MPs at the House of Representatives, and I guess it's said ours because it's about the House of Representatives. If that's the case, then I can appreciate it, but if that's the case. So they didn't seem like the big majority had anything to do with this. To be honest, I didn't even read much, and to be more honest, I didn't even care. Therefore, these Members of ours need to be reformed a little and we need to move towards a solution. And what's the solution? The solution is, therefore, to vote on the proposal made by Mr Špirić, so that's one solution, another solution is to leave more time without this formed Commission of Investigation doing its job, so let's leave more time to this Ministry, if of course the Ministry has valid reasons why it was late with information to the Investigative Commission. I think if these reasons of the Ministry are valid, then we need to allow more time, given that some material has arrived, we need to give more time to the Investigative Commission to get this job done by us and to go out to the next meeting with the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9655	I thank Mr. Novaković, Mr. Džaferović answered his word, and so did Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9656	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore the chairman of the House, has given us an opening statement as chairman of this committee whether, whose member I have also informed him that he has received an envelope containing some material. And on the envelope, they're writing an official secret top secret, as far as I can tell from here, and I can see that the material came from the Department of Security. 58 The order would therefore be, since we have here a representative of the Ministry of Security, a deputy minister who asks for a word, to explain what is at stake as much as I don't know, that's what the people of the Ministry of Security know, and then to lead the debate and take the appropriate views. That would be some elemental order. Mr. Špirić, of course, you're very careful and it's a good thing you didn't even open that envelope. It's an official secret that's top secret, and you treat it that way. Well, please, please, please, how nice that we can have a discussion on the subject at all without first hearing those we have spoken to. The chairman has informed you who this commission has addressed? Here's something, so it's arrived. I'm asking you to give a word here to the Council of Ministers. I'm not going to tell you now whether I can say something about this pay phone or not. Is there anything I can do or can't know? Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9657	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Who's answering for a word? Is he looking for a word from the Council of Ministers? Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9658	He was looking for a man a long time ago. He asked for a word from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9659	I'm sorry. Just a little bit of business, I filed the information. ________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9660	Well, let him open it, but in front of the camera.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9661	Can you copy this and give it to the Rules of Procedure? To copy, give the man. Mr. Deputy Minister Mektić, please. And the MPs got this information I read to you, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9662	I'd finish the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9663	Well, we can't finish, let's move on. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9664	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we have received a conclusion from the 18th session of the House of Representatives since 10 September 2003, which adopts the conclusion that the Committee of Representatives of the House of Representatives, composed of Dr Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž and Šefik Džaferović, with these two tasks, is being established. But if I didn't take your time, I wouldn't really read it, you all have these conclusions. We are simply that this home has reached that conclusion, we have not taken any obligation, because it was not then that this ministry in any part of this entire case undertakes to collect any information and information related to this case. Only, September 17th means that after 7 days, we have received from Mr. Chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr. Nikola Špirić, a letter saying that for the needs of the House of Representatives, we have obtained the necessary and relevant information about the so-called coup on what we will inform this home. After we received this request, we did not, in any way, deal with this case in our electoral or actual jurisdiction, make a certain request at several addresses or, to several institutions and ask that information and data be supplied to this person again, the so-called case so that we can meet the request of this House or the Commission. To be honest, right here, and I say my request to the Federal Intelligence Service, we've sent it to the Federal Ministry of the Interior of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we've sent it to the Federal Prosecutor's Office of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We couldn't commit a federal prosecutor or a federal prosecutor and give him six days or five days. We said it was a very urgent case, delivered a copy of this act that we received from the House of Representatives and asked that since it was an emergency, it was delivered to us. Exactly 7 days after that, we received an emergency, again from the chairman of the House of Representatives, so the first acts on September 17th, 24th, in which it stands to provide information to the Commission on the involvement of our MPs in the preparation of the coup, the cause of chaos, bombings and intimidation. We're getting a different request now. It's only about the so-called coup case and then it's spread now to cause chaos, bombings and intimidation. We once again contacted these institutions, asked them to provide us with all the necessary information, information that can, of course, help solve this first case, it's a so-called coup, although some institutions, when we addressed them with such a request, asked that we specifically supplement this request, because they don't, either, this case doesn't lead under such a name or with such an explanation. Then we contacted them again, explained that an investigative commission was formed, that there was such and such a debate, etc. We have been actively referring to the 60 requests of the Investigation Commission all along, and in one case, we did not exactly have the intention of demeaning this entire case by respecting the dignity of this home. That's not true, it's simple, and you can see that, from that we're going to see that on Friday, that's what it means when we finished this, the week we got late material from some of these institutions and since it's legal, according to Article 23. The Security Intelligence Act of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is responsible in that case to determine the status of such a document, has designated it as an official secret and top secret document, and the prosecutor is also the Federal Prosecutor's Office in his entire procedure for making a possible public prosecutorial decision, has determined the subject of the status of the official secret and strictly confidential and by a member of whom I have now cited the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Service Act, they are responsible for determining the degree of secrecy and they are competent when that degree will be abolished and when that document will be submitted to the public. That's why we, what we collected in this form, delivered to the Commission of Investigation at that moment, so that the material had not been with us for a day, had not been delayed, had been delivered to the Commission of Investigation, with the conclusion that it was strictly a matter of official secrecy and of classified material, and that in the debate on the investigation committee and this Parliament on this material should be excluded from the public. And so we can treat that material. Now that in a certain way, I don't know where it's coming from, it's a single task force that deals with these checks, etc. And I wouldn't really want to get into it. And as such material, here's what we've delivered to the Investigative Commission, and we're still ready if the Commission thinks it should be expanded in a certain way, in a way with this additional information that we've received in the ER regarding the cause of chaos, intimidation and bombing, then we should sit down to see what it is specifically about and see which institution it is that when it comes to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9665	I thank Mr. Deputy Minister Mr. Mektić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Belkić, please. Just take it easy no problem, don't rush too much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9666	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, I have indeed abstained from expecting from Deputy Minister Mektić what I have heard of the occasion. So, the man has explained to us what this is all about and we are simply now in a position to suggest that the investigation committee in the afternoon, in the break, whenever you want, sit down and open those envelopes, read as well as as the Commission come out and give one piece of information about this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9667	Me, I'm not going to be a part of it. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9668	Mr Džaferović was appointed to this parliament by the Commission of Investigation, not the College, but the Commission of Investigation, in which the members of Špirić Nikola, Džaferović and Mr Raguž are members. Please read it, do not report to us whether it is strictly, not top secret, therefore, MPs are practically unable to hear information or, I can hear it but without public presence, etc., and any journalist may seem to be able to get information perhaps even such a degree as you are talking about and that citizens are reading in the paper without any problems. And get the job done when we're determined to form an investigative committee, let's get people to keep our authority, so we don't turn out to be a mess about it. There are big things, you've accepted to be members of the Investigative Commission, you can go ahead and read, read, open envelopes as you know and insert and report to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9669	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9670	Home Chairman Mr Špirić has a word
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9671	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the way we're discussing this, the seriousness we're dealing with this problem is not good. I'm convinced he's not good and I don't think we're doing a good thing like this. If someone thought it was necessary to form a commission to mess with the commission and what's called a "state strike" quote, then it's another disastrous knowledge. I must inform you that people are already conducting investigations and that those who are not involved in politics will pay our inerts with their heads. Paying the job position neither guilty nor due, because politicians got involved in that part of the job that may have been unnatural or unnecessary. Who will explain to the citizens, therefore, whether this state parliament can amnesty to, say, have daily papers in, say, the weekly papers in Ljiljan phonograms of covert listening and conversation. Can this just go past us and the state parliament doesn't take a stand. A three-member religious task force is not enough to deal with, I have suggested that this task force be expanded and this letter sent by an FOS worker, he wonders who gave the order to open an investigation to him. So people are already in trouble. And I have to tell you, that's where it's all about, so it's not for the public to talk about serious things. There are serious matters involved in government services. Sometimes, unfortunately, you get into something that might not be good. But this parliament must get the strength to bite this problem. This is running away from trouble. So believe me, look, how is it possible that this Parliament has formed a commission? The presidency has come out with public statements to make information available. You'll see, you'll hear, and we'll see what the press is writing about. The Minister of Security and the chairman of the Council of Ministers were also publicly manifested, you will see about hearing everything there is we've won 62. I'm asking today, so I'm asking for the first time. Who in this state, by which Mr. Tihić can receive information and Nikola Špirić cannot. What can Mr Bariša Čolak and Mr Adnan Terzić do without Nikola Špirić? Like, where the law says that. We're going to get real information in this country or we're going to judge the public. That's all I ask. So, I don't need ifnorms like Nikola Špirić. I want to protect the dignity of the President of Parliament and of the College, and we have the strength. If we don't have the strength to tell the public, we don't have the strength and we won't, because here, I want to draw your attention to the cleaning work being done. Now we have to ask the question as a state Parliament who needs them and why. Why is one worker guilty or someone here in Parliament guilty of having contact with Parliament's chairman, because he needs to answer that man. But this is already about the responsibility of the people who contacted the suspect. So, I'm saying there's a definition of a man who works and asks. So, the man asks about the above, he asks a few questions that it is necessary to answer who ordered this investigation into people's work, and we say there was nothing. No, no, please, please don't do that, so this is the only material we've got. But I have to tell you, he's associated with a delivery I don't want to talk about without arguments. But as a responsible man, I won't even talk without arguments. I'm looking for arguments, if Parliament has given me an assignment. I ask you, therefore, to extend this investigation committee, that it enters the essence of the problem and inform Parliament and the public. I, therefore, am, we have sought that level of information that already exists in the Ministry and with the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I don't know if you need to explain now that they only got this when they asked us or had it in the office. I have to tell you, unfortunately, that I have information, that there is some information that is not good for this country, about listening to people from neighbouring countries, etc., about monitoring work, about integration of intelligence services. I'm talking about a future project. Are we gonna do this project or not? This is not how we're gonna do it. Unless we as the state's most responsible people are ready to look the truth in the eye. And it's likely that this investigative commission will get to something as far as it's going to go, but something has to be a lesson in the depths of this country. Only for those reasons. I have no reason for you colleagues to read this so that you can make a cartoon take off the veil of secrets as you wish, read, inform, etc. I therefore ask that the work of the Commission be expanded and that the competent institutions simply send what they have. But it's not good, it's not good to have it in the ministar's office and to say today we only sent it when we got it from you. That's what makes me suspect someone is breaking the law of this country. If Parliament asks, it will be delivered within five minutes. Five minutes, if it's a coup. And not to be deceived for a month, so you remember by what law we called the next session of Parliament when it was that misery and what was in Banja Luka. Was it then to ask the Republika Srpska Intelligence Service, or was it Parliament, and at that time I supported the emergency session. But there's nothing urgent here right now. So we can get together, this is where politics is being conducted, I did, I did screw it up, and that policy just reflects the picture of 63 of this country. But I ask Parliament to get serious on this issue, so that others have no chance of doing what they have done so far. So, I suggest extending the Commission, otherwise I'm not prepared to work this way on this committee. Thank you. Zlatko Lagumdžija answered his word. You're all right. I don't mind what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9672	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, it is indeed refreshing that we finally have from the Council of Ministers, ministers and two deputies. There's not so many Council of Ministers here long ago at one point in the agenda, so I thank you all for finding the time to find yourself here. I hope that's not because of the next point, but that you'll be able to tell us something at this point. I thank all those who have had an active relationship in this whole case, which unfortunately has been going on for more than a month. But I want here very clearly and precisely to say that this, this information and this about lighting up the circumstances, really unnecessary shames in many elements, don't need either SDP or Zlatko Lagumdžija as an individual. Well, it's clear to me without investigating this Parliament that neither I nor anyone in the SDP have made a coup. Even the fools know we didn't do it. But apparently, there's been a multiplication sphere here from which I'm really inviting you with a full note of seriousness to try to put a point more on this mud rolling. This causes great damage to the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this sends a message very clear and ugly that we are playing with such things in this country and that it is possible that someone who is sitting in Parliament who has sworn before this flag and before this coat of arms, after listening to the anthem, will guard the constitutional order of this country to plan after that and perform what is here. So this Parliament has to do with its seriousness and for the dignity of no more Parliament than the country to put on this point. I really have no intention of commenting more on how Mr. Novaković said here the love statements sent from this pay phone, if I understood it well, by the fact that you are with the lady who is missing here today and who has contributed much to the fact that we have this on the agenda, you have had a lot of communication with her that deserves to be called love statements, but I did not think it was a personal nature, but that it was a political nature between your two parties. These love statements are something that has been legitimateized here and by the formation of this council of ministers who are missing here, with full respect for the people who are here. So I won't comment on the love statements, it's ugly what you said, and I really wouldn't tell you at the big guy's hack, which my sister would say, and I wouldn't say it to you like this, and you were able to say it from this pay phone, and it's ugly, and I was able to stop to say it rougher because the ladies said no. 64 I would ask all of you, thank the Deputy Minister for this information. At least he has honored us to have someone outside the Council of Ministers give us a few words. We learned from what you said that no one in this country is running a case in official institutions called a coup. Look, and it's something to find out from this pay phone that this case doesn't exist as an official case. It would be good if we put in an ad act, too. However, this is about that we need to, in accordance with our own conclusion that we adopted, actually the minutes from this session that Dom, after the information we received from Mr Špirić, informs the public and decides on the need for further work of the Investigation Commission, or on the directions of its division, and we have the elements for all this together. So I would like to remind you once again of the elements that when we adopted this report were told what should be formed, to do this commission. This commission, to remind Mr Špirić, was it intended to determine whether MP Zlatko Lagumdžija or any organised group organized bombings and prepared a coup. Then what measures should be taken in order to protect the constitutional order if the exact allegations from what I said are correct. So what do you do to get me arrested? In order to facilitate my job, I immediately sent a letter after that session of Parliament to the prosecutor in which I made my mandate and immunity available to him and asked him to take me to the proper procedure, but to do so with anyone who violated the country's reputation by making such constructions and to determine first whether such a thing was done and if it wasn't to determine who led us to the silence of all this time. What the commission's mandate was supposed to be and when, these first two points will be easily resolved and Mr. Džaferović spoke of it by some investigative authorities doing their job, we should not interfere. The investigative authorities have done a good part of their work. But for us, it is an important question, for Parliament, who created false accusations if they are not correct? What measures should be taken to protect the country's reputation abroad and strengthen citizens' confidence in the system institutions? That was supposed to be the commission's job. To investigate whether and in any way and who has violated it, please, I'm undermining this, only for this to form a commission, an international convention on human rights and freedoms? Who violated the BiH Constitution through possible listening, creating reports on this basis and unauthorized dissemination of information that violates the Constitution and the law guaranteeing the rights of individuals and institutions? I responsibly argue that the violation of fundamental human rights has been defined not only by European conventions on human rights but also by the Constitution of BiH in front of people and people who have been subject to such a shameful manipulation. And that's the role of this House to plead against this and not to allow a violation of the Constitution of this country, especially when it involves people who have sworn to keep it, like us. Then did they in any way and who violated the laws or baselessly accused BiH citizens of organising a coup and destroying constitutional order by violent means? What was also proposed was what we should have said after we got this to form a commission whose work will be public and which will take place through public hearings and debates and then people from ministries and ministers will come if necessary and the head of state will come if necessary, because if the head of state can come to the United States or to France for a hearing or in Great 65 Britain, if the prime minister can come to the hearing to see what his role is in the murder or suicide of one of the officials of the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence, then he can also afford to afford something like that to us all. The Commission should give the report to the House of Representatives no later than a month later and then eventually end its work or ask Parliament to move on. And normally there was under 7. that the Commission would give full support to the investigative judicial authorities to highlight all the facts relating to these issues and that their full engagement was expected to end with the performance of all the necessary work. This is what we agreed to, as, Berize, if I'm not mistaken, your proposal was to come up with this compromise solution with this three-member committee, we said these things, we're going to form this committee after we get the answer, right, and then if we get the answer after the investigative authorities don't do their job we're going to get into this problem regarding the protection of human rights and freedom and the violation of the Constitution in another way. The commission needs a simple move to free Zlatko Lagumdžija, or to have this parliament remove the immunity he himself offered and arrest him and be punished more brutally in accordance with the law. I have an 8th point that I won't be aware of today because I'm afraid that because of the 8th point, it might be a question of accepting what was agreed on last time. And my 8th point would be to examine, if this commission were to examine the embarrassing role of the international community in this whole case. So my message to the international community is that their role in all this is shameful, embarrassing. But I will not ask Parliament to adopt it because there is no necessary parliamentary majority here to tell the international community that they cannot do what they want in this country. There is no parliamentary majority of Muniba, and if you're willing to accept these seven things to achieve that parliamentary majority, to put cards between us and to see where we are, and when we do, then we'll be able to literally represent this country in front of the international community, but I wouldn't want to see this last point so that someone doesn't raise his hand on these first seven. The first seven points are the introduction of order between us. And when we do, the eighth will fall on its own. Because Munibe, you know, some members of the international community behave here as if they were occupiers, not as if they were invited here to help us. Unfortunately. And some of us are acting like domestic traitors, and I'm not going to provoke that story any further, because we're going to go far, because we're not going to finish what we can.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9673	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Who's next to the word? Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9674	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if a man were to succeed in shutting down and looking at this parliament on the side, he would have to wonder where this House of Representatives is going and on what basis he decides and discusses today. I ask you to see on your benches if you have one document from this point. Do you have one document? There isn't. We are calling exclusively for media 66 speculations and provocations. Our media are sources of information. Based on the media, we're putting an end to the agenda. Well, you know what we do. Are we going to put an end to any worse sign or provocation in the media? I know that public opinion is the dimension to be taken into account. But objectively there is no cause of public change that we can have relevant facts here today. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you, I'm asking you, so only by the documents can we discuss. We don't have anything today, and we're already talking for half an hour. So ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, we have no right to do so. Whoever thinks we're right, we don't have the right to do that. We have no right to abuse this House of Representatives and waste time. If anyone wants a judge, if anyone wants a media promotion, if anyone wants a party promotion, that's other stories. I ask the document before the MPs of the House of Representatives. The document we have. If we don't have the papers, we're taking it off the agenda. We're taking this off the agenda. What's wrong with you? Who put this on you? I'm sorry, please Belkić, if you have one document in front of you, tell me. I'm begging you. So any speculation about the expansion of the Investigation Commission that we're already beginning to abuse,...we have investigative committees normally, and now we're going to have another investigative commission. That's right. Based on which the investigation committee will conclude, work and what we can offer it. Nothing. So, Mr. Chairman, I apologize, once again I warn on the basis of the media, speculation, provocation, misinformation or objective writing, we cannot conclude anything. Papers on this House of Representatives. And I agree with the chairman, there is also a question of responsibility for all institutions that have disobeyed and have shown high levels of confidence in this House of Representatives and the Kolegijum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9675	Thank you. The word is Mr. Džaferović, so Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9676	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all ask that if any of us were not present in the O.R. then we would not discuss our colleagues who are not present here as he did before this colleague who was behind this pay phone. That's what some elemental order requires. When it comes to the essence of things and the point of this point of the agenda, I actually more and more move away from understanding how right I was when I objected here in Parliament to form an investigative commission to deal with this case. So I call it a case and I put an end to the word by accident, I'm not qualified for it. They showed it today, and the best example, what it really means is, let's not let fellow Špirić be angry, but the best proof of it is that when he received this envelope, I am once again turning my attention to the label on that envelope, which suggests that the old one is much more serious than we can think about here in the House and that we need to deal more seriously and more responsibly with this matter. 67 I said last time at the pay phone that this parliament could not be a judge and could not judge whether someone was doing something or not, whether someone had imputed or not. This is not the task of this parliament, and especially in things that bear the mark or which are regularly marked by the laws of "officer secret" and "extremely confidential". This is not the task of this parliament and this parliament cannot do so. I agreed last time to form this commission which will consist of members of the College with only two tasks to obtain information from the competent authorities, here's information, here's what you see and this has come to inform the House. Here's Dom's been notified. Everything else in this case is the work of the competent state authorities in accordance with the laws of this country. If someone has doubts about the illegal work of an organ, so if anyone suspects it, then there is a law that provides for a procedure to be carried out. The Federal Intelligence Service, under the law which established the existence of that service, arranged its organisation and the way it works, has authorities above that service and which are obliged to take care of the legality of the work of that service. I don't know exactly what the organs are, but I do know that the FOS Act exists. So the only thing that we can do here as a state Parliament is that if someone thinks it's necessary to address these authorities to those authorities, respecting the procedure prescribed by the law, they provide us with information. This cannot be done by any commission in front of this parliament, because believe people meet immediately with an insurmountable obstacle. So this is where the material came in, I repeat again to Mr Špirić, who has been marked "the official secret" and "the top secret". I'm asking a question right now, and it says "The Commission of Investigation" down there. I'm a member of this investigation committee, and I need to get to know this material. What do I do after I get to know that material, what? "office secret" top secret. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't. Please nice, please listen to me. Please, I don't want to, I don't want to put myself in a position to commit an act of "office secret." I'm a lawyer, and I understand myself in this area, so don't make me do anything that I don't think I can do. So far, I've had to tell this whole story, so get into these finesse, among other things, to show you what we as Parliament actually did or didn't step in. It is still time for us to be able to get out of all this and put in charge of the competent authorities, and then let them work in accordance with the laws and to submit to Parliament the information they need to submit to Parliament. I believe this commission, I believe this commission formed by Dom last time has been delayed by its work on this. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9677	I thank my colleague Džaferović. It's a replica, it's a replica. Blame quote Mr Gligorić, so Mr. Bešlagić, so Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9678	Ladies and gentlemen, the guilty quote in the part of Mr. Professor Avdić's discussion. He was actually speaking part of it, but the other one was wrong to say that, after all that we talked about and what preceded me in some way accused the media that they were manipulating, speculating, etc. with information they published in the meantime. That's not true. In this country, great importance is on the media, and this medium is actually the conscience of this country. Only politicians and leaders in this country fear public words. They are afraid that they cannot exercise influence and that their investigative journalism is more researched than the official authorities Mr. Džaferović advocates and wants to give it to them there. Procedurally, yes. I agree with that, too. But it's a way of not doing anything. So I ask you when it comes to this parliament that we can say, as Mr Avdić says, we have no fact. We have a fact. Ma'am, our colleague Seada Palavrić has made it clear about Mr Lagumdžija, accused him of a coup and terrorist attacks, bombings in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sarajevo. What does that mean? But she, meanwhile, if it's the manipulation of journalists, in the meantime she didn't publicly deny it. The rest means her claim. It's known in the democratic world, if anyone says anything, he should deny it. If he doesn't, he's always behind such a public statement. And you ignore it because of the political alliance you have. You can't say in one country the biggest thing about wanting to break down practically constitutional order in a country. And how can you sit here in this House and go through it peacefully? Are you even educated in this sense what such a huge accusation means? Or it's this political dependence on the leaders who sit in executive power who are your bosses and you can't, to raise your real voice because deep down you agree with it. It's against your being. But you can't because of political importance and that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9679	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9680	Let's just hear it for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9681	I tell all those who didn't come out here clearly and fenced themselves from it, but by political calculations and dribble, he wants to say something of this and something of this. Come out, gentlemen, one by one, and say: I condemn Mrs. Seada Palavrić's statement and the SDA Club. They shouldn't have said anything like that. Are you ready, gentlemen, fellow Members to say that? You're not ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9682	Let's leave the SDA and Seada Palavrić. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9683	Whoever doesn't, he's practically not aware enough to stand by his own actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9684	Please, nice. Just take it easy, sir. Replica Mr. Sead Avdić, so goes Mr. Bešlagić. Please, you'll all get the word, just take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9685	Come on, young boy, you're still green.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9686	My esteemed colleague Gligorić did not understand my ironic intonation. With an intonation that only spoke of political manipulations, etc. I felt that the media was independent and that they had the right to write and you said good research journalism shows high progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which means, but the media, my colleague Gligorić, are independent media. He can't make a policy on them, nor is this House of Representatives supposed to deal with it. It should deal with perhaps a press council that we should form or a simple press board, and only then discuss the situation in the media and the simple truthfulness and objectivity of information, etc. etc. So my ironic intonation was the reason why you reacted, and again I repeat my fundamental intensity is we can't, in some way have an independent body, which will, simply, give a review of the BiH media. They're independent people. They have the right to write, investigate, etc. and that's good for BiH at the very least.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9687	Thank you. The words of counterpart Bešlagić have so Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9688	I really didn't mean to discuss this information that came and Mr. Džaferović says it's over, he's talking about what kind of state we have. The Dominister for Security here told us that he passed on the information, we could all know that, and so it's no wonder. However, I was a little surprised, and I must say that I was amazed by Mr. Avdić's appearance that we had no proof, that it was from the press. Gentlemen, please, if the materials are to be handed over to the Presidency, to the Council of Ministers, to the Prosecutor, to the daily newspaper, then it says we have materials, but unfortunately, these materials are not available to us and we have therefore formed this commission. We formed a commission to get us these materials and to give us some suggestions based on these materials. 70 Why am I saying that? I think, right now, our attitudes to put it under the carpet are leading to a situation like this. And, secondly, that top-secret material doesn't talk about having anything, whether it's incorrect, so we need to look for these solutions that we're talking about now independent of the media, or if it's true, then excuse me, but Zlatko Lagumdžija or SDP shouldn't sit in this parliament. That's the point we need to get that answer. Therefore, the essence of this problem is not that we are now asking this commission to take over the judiciary, to take over what the prosecution is, but to get us materials. As much as I have information, I read in the papers, the D.A. called. And that's the material that's supposed to come here. And based on what we're saying, inside of me, I said last time, if we're accusing ourselves here, then you can think of what they think of us as the ones who chose us. That is why I believe that this committee has not finished, and therefore I believe that it is necessary, in my deep conviction, to give the opportunity for those materials that are obtained to be studied by this committee, by those points that we have spoken of and to get that answer. An answer that will make it clear. Gentlemen, someone has made statements and has an obligation to say here in front of parlament, I'm sorry, I've made a mistake or to say this is done and gentlemen, you sitting here is no place in this House. Such an attitude is the only correct position of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9689	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. The word is Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović, so Mr Emir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9690	The Honorable Chairman, I will have you, but before I begin to discuss, shortly before I was initiated by the discussion of my fellow Members, I thought, which profile should be that based on the camera of some material, whether or not there are elements of a coup. I'm sorry, if you'd delivered me a thousand and one pages, I wouldn't have known, but I guess there are people who know it professionally. And, with full confidence in all those institutions, prosecutors and courts and investigative bodies, etc. No matter what level of government the word is, I understand that the role of the investigative commission is, exactly, to contact all those competent institutions, who do so according to the description of their regular activities to inform you whether or not there is a coup, elements for the coup charges. Any other qualification, even more so, any supply of any confidential material to any of us MPs, may, possibly be information some more, qualification some more, but I'm not sure that all of you colleagues and colleagues are able to assess, based on the material read, especially if we are the profession of economic, engineering etc. whether or not there are elements of the coup. Let us not go far from the institutions, which such work should do according to official duty, that is, by the nature of its work. I, the only thing I can blame the commission, which is the information and item of the agenda formulate it as an information about the so-called investigation committee. the case of a "state coup". And, if I understand the commission perfectly 71 well, that she had an obligation to inform this parliament about the content that stands here on this paper, but as the name of the information stands, many have probably expected that there will be an answer to those questions, which the commission has received, possibly in the task. In that sense, I would only mention briefly, the discussion of my colleague Avdić was quite like this and content, is also with, for a reason with a little more emotional charge and should be so, but the darkness that I felt sorry for with you comes from my colleague Džaferović, who, by the way, generally, especially when the legal issues are at stake, but I don't really know what it means in secret, confidential, so we have a mystery all the time. Believe me, I keep thinking that there's something or doesn't, but let someone tell us once, but the fact that something is standing, there's something secret and confidential, it doesn't have to mean something and don't re-evaluate things in this House. My colleague Dkžaferović, I address you only for the reason that your discussion has given me a bit of an initiation on this, because somehow you state it as a matter of serious nature, just because it bears the seal in secret. Maybe there's something about this House at all, and it shouldn't concern us if it's secret, but let whoever's doing this job on official duty say whether he has the elements or not it's not going to be about the state militia eventually not the coup. Secondly, chaired by the Commission, I am now addressing you as members of the Commission of this one. If I were you, I'd ask some questions in writing. I don't know if you asked those questions. We don't have to go in there to have our investigative authorities supply us with information and file us with stenograms or I don't know what the ton doesn't mean to me either. That's what we read, in other words, and in the papers. But whether there are elements or not, I have personally read in the newspaper of perhaps the most invited person in the Federation of BiH who has said that it does not. But if anyone suspects or there are other such organs, I don't know who they are, send answers, or questions to such addresses. There's also the silence of the administration. If it doesn't send an answer within 15 days, it doesn't and we put that point on one of those cases, because otherwise, I really think that we're going to start doing things like this, not dealing with ourselves, possibly concrete reasons that bring us into this situation. Secondly, I fully agree with my colleague Džaferović and, indeed, I think that what we heard is out of my mind, precisely about the debate on this agenda point and last time and today. My colleagues, Seade Palavrić, are not here right now, but come on, let's think about how we treat each other. I don't put myself on anybody's side here, but if anything else for college reasons, I wouldn't say about someone here at the pay phone what they said today. kolega Novaković, that applies to what you were saying. I think, last time there was a debate on this subject, I mentioned one of the most important things, which seems to be very important to us when we talk about these issues, which is the code of conduct of MPs, and I am asking you to chair this home, now I am speaking to you, not as the chairman of the Commission, to initiate under urgent raps and work on the code of conduct. That we don't leave it for some future time, and in the meantime we're going to eat ourselves in this kind of fight and insult, as we do at these points of the agenda. Thank you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9691	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Initiating a debate on the code of conduct, anyone, any MP, and you personally, can chair, I am not running away from it. Mr. Džaferović answered the line. Please bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9692	But this isn't some big replica, just to say, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, you really have no reason to be surprised, really, with my discussion. I think I also know that I am fully aware of everything I said about this pay phone. In Article 10 of our Rules of Procedure, he says: "Employees are obliged to keep secret state, military, official or business secrets and confidential information and therefore are responsible, says here, and this document here is marked as an official secret trust me, I was motivated when I spoke about this matter and I am fully aware of what I was saying. Call whoever delivered that material, tell them who that material can be given to, and what can anyone who gets that material say? As far as I'm concerned, let everything be made public, as far as I'm concerned. I don't mind that, but to make all this public, but I'm not the one who makes the decision about it, and I don't want to talk publicly about things that are marked as official secrets, until whoever's authorized to take that tag down does. The whole point of my discussion is contained in this, and therefore, as I was saying about Mr. Lagumdžija, that the decisions of the authorities should be made, I also say on suspicion of those in whom there are doubts about the Federal Intelligence Service, that the decision should be made by the competent authorities. The whole point of my discussion is more than that.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9693	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Mr. Elmir Jahić answered the question. Sir, Jahić you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9694	And I, indeed, agree that it is time to channel and bring an end to this debate and to prevent both politics and some political marketing while at the same time protecting the dignity of our fellow MPs that have been so ugly, there have been a lot of ugly words in the last few months. From what I've noticed, good colleague Avdić said, so, the amount of information we've received, at least I've got from the media who wrote in one way or another. It seems to me that this case, so the name of the state coup case, I didn't get a chance to see it in the media, maybe I was wrong to apologize and that when we formed this commission, we gave that name. 73 In the media besides these allegedly so-called so-called. The coup, there was a lot of other information. Information on the cause of unrest, dissatisfaction of workers, etc. the coordination of individual people with journalists that the more potential it is to cause unrest and to aim at early elections. So that's all we had in the media. So as well as this information on the hold-up, etc. So here's the obvious problem that we don't have enough information. I just consulted and I don't know if we can do it. So, that this Parliament, in the interests of protection and MPs, and in the interest of bringing, is to find out the right truth to take down the mark of secrecy, therefore, to ask the competent authorities to remove the mark of secrecy from this document and to deliver it to the members of the College, ie, here and to make it available to us as MPs, so that we can see exactly what it says in this material and, too, it can be debated whether it is legal, or illegal and it has done that listening, etc. So we have to have the right information. I agree, therefore, with my colleague Avdić, we cannot make decisions based on what was written in the media, because it was one general capophony, one of the media wrote like this, the other and the opposite. So, the only way to truly inform ourselves, to see what's in those documents, and if we can take down the code of secrecy, if it's Parliament's ability or to ask the chief of intelligence and how the law predicted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9695	Mr. Špirić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9696	Of course, it takes patience and can always be solved. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's only one dilemma here. Are we like a parliament, so are we as parliament ready to conduct a parliamentary investigation or not? And then there's no problem. Whether the Commission will expand and whether we will call on people who have provided information in public. I think that the Commission needs to be extended with four members and that, therefore, it's called a parliamentary investigation, not what the D.A.'s office has, the judiciary, they're doing their part of the job and that, simply, this commission, that we, you know, send a protocol memo and wait 15 days for people to send a memo. Let's call the Director of FOSS, the Public Prosecutor of the Federation, the Minister of the Federation, members of the Bureau and the Council of Ministers. So, to invite people to give us information about what they have and, of course, it may be the conclusion that a state secret can be removed from what the state secret can be removed from, and that we get information that we will inform the public, but what is not good, and you all know it in this country that it is, I have to tell you that FOSS informs Bošnjak and Hrvat, but that I suppose the service in RS only informs Srbin. That's not good. I have to tell you that in five years I've heard terrible things, I didn't mean to bring this case at all, but as far as possible, let's say that two members of the Bureau get information without getting a third one, except on that basis. So this is about absolutely upside down when it comes to the information system. Are the Srbin a constituent people here? Yeah, well, I guess we should have information about their country. Why don't they have it? So, I ask, therefore, that there is this system of information, but here if we are willing to conduct a parliamentary investigation, then no one will mind the Commission expanding and calling these addresses for discussion, because we will get nothing by correspondence. Here's what we got by correspondence, and, believe me, now, as far as I'm concerned, that a calm conscience could open this up, unpack, and it would be 74 funny what's called a state secret. That would be the funniest after all. But if I don't get into it, then, the Commission, there's not even a law in which we can apply to the real secret in one way or another, but if the Commission expands, and the conclusion is that we call on the alleged addresses to deliver information, to respond to a parliamentary investigation. So it's not a judicial investigation, it's a matter of people coming and talking. If this is just a system of correspondence, it's a system of waste of time and what I'm noticing, unfortunately there's no readiness in that kind of parliamentary investigation, so far there's no way in. Thank you very much. Ivo Miro Jović answered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9698	Thank you, Mr. President, for a long time we've stayed on this issue. Just like on the 17th, same as on the 18th, 19th and 20th, and probably another session on the same issue, we just don't know what we're going to expand or reduce further. What will be the fomulation or preformumolaic of what we have already brought and so round? Why and why is that? The reminders work, I'd like to say next. Today we also have these relevant indicators here, that we can discuss something, very briefly inform ourselves and, in accordance with the conclusions so far, act. Here, we had a Mr. Minister of Security, who nice and decadently told us everything he, as among the first persons of the service, who must take care of this thought and directly addressed us, unlike many of the questions we have asked so far, and we didn't have such a direct indication. On the other hand, we already have a document and the Honorable President has shown us that it has been converted. What's in it, it's just an investigative commission, which is why we've formed it we need to see. Is there really something in there that is a state secret or not, it will, because it's an investigative commission and it's formed to say, and the scolding conclusions we had were three of those conclusions, which we had at the 18th session, where, in ten days' time, it's going to inform us, what the relevant authorities are doing and are doing on what has been called a "state coup" case so far. I would also remind you that we now have time, thank Bog neither thunders nor fires, nor is the army on the streets. So now we have time for this Commission of Investigation in the same configuration as the unchangeable, and according to our conclusions, already at the next session informs us, and according to the conclusion number three at the 18th session, where the Commission will submit information on this issue to the House. Well, if that's enough... here's what we heard today, submitted information in writing. She's who she is, and if she's happy, that's another question. That's why we've probably stayed on this issue this long, which is why it's my concrete suggestion. To leave the Commission's composition as it is, to bring its business to an end as we have charged it, in accordance with the conclusions and to accept it today 75 as information, what has been heard by the Minister of Security and what is in the envelope we do not yet know, this will be prepared by the Commission for the next meeting and, I suggest that we end this agenda point in such a way and that, from this part, or on behalf of the HDZ Club, I seek a break. It is my suggestion not to seek a sledgehammer, but to bring it to an end, I repeat, that the Komisjia continues its work as we did, and here we have the information already going, and the authorities and bodies will do their jobs and I think that, in one way and that, with all these institutions, when the request appears, it will feel that this Parliament wants and wants to participate in a fair solution, what we have started and I think it is not good that in one document of this same home it is a matter of state, so to speak. The coup, then, is being added to the next meeting of bombings, causing chaos, and I don't know what kind of prefixes he doesn't get, conditionally, the affair, maybe from today's dissuade of so many speakers for this pay phone, and we're going to go on forever, and we're not going to keep coming to a solution. I think there's a solution today. I am so experiencing it and I see, let's let those people we've given the trust of the three of us from Parliament, the House of Representatives, when we have formed this Commission, let the Commission finish its work just as we have entrusted it, there are now elements for it. So I would suggest to the president that we vote on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9699	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. He briefly searched for Beriz Belkić and we're bringing him in. I don't think there's any more discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9700	The Staranka MPsStaranka club for BiH has, from an opportunity to some extent, advocated what Mr. Jović is talking about. So we're looking for simple answers to some questions, which are open and asked here. We don't need hundreds of pages of stenograms, etc. So, give as the Commission of Investigation, take the form of a question to the investigating authorities, according to the judicial authorities, etc. And you're going to get answers, and you're going to figure out what kind of contributions you need and whether or not some hundred pages should be delivered here at all. I want to make a little comment. Obviously, we overestimated ourselves, counting on countries with developed democratic practice, to succeed in making a preliminary investigation, to create a parliamentary investigative commission, which will be the level of commissions in the United States, Great Britain, etc. Unfortunately, and obviously, we neither have that kind of tradition, knowledge or logistical support for such a thing, and therefore there is no reason not to face our possibilities, but simply to go to getting answers, to the open touch, which is here in this House. It's simple, if there's been a legal accusation that one of the MPs is, etc. and something like that in that sense, ask a question and get answers here, and you figure out what it is you need to contribute to. And, when it comes to the constitutionality and equality of the people and in terms of the information obtained and in the Presidency, I am speaking from personal experience, etc. We were finally ready to put the three of us on each other's table and to say for your information, we refused to accept it, because they were one-sided. Here's a chance, Mr. Špirić, for 76 of this injustice to the peoples to be fixed and to pass the state's law on intelligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9701	I thank my colleague, Belkić. The word came from Mr. Hazim Felić, then Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9702	Madam Chairman, I'll take a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues in the spirit of what Mr Belkić was saying, and in part Mr Ivo Miro Jović, Parliament, or the Commission we formed, has put too ambitious, not ambitious, but too ambitious a task with the aim of conducting a parliamentary investigation. This parliamentary investigation of these circumstances and of these laws is not possible for a simple reason, we all read in the paper that the federal prosecutor said there was not enough evidence, but that he asked for further information from the federal intelligence service and we can contact him, or the Commission with a request, they will tell us that in order to investigate, he cannot give away secrets that are in the case, etc. The director of Fossa will do the same. So we're gonna spin around in a vicious circle and we're not gonna find a way out of what we're looking for. For this reason, the most appropriate thing is to make suggestions or conclusions that this committee that was formed informs us based on what it gets. Based on what he gets. To go in the direction of removing secrecy from documents sent to the D.A.'s office, I don't think it's possible at the moment because the Director is in charge of removing the confidentiality code under the Secret Information Protection Regulation from those documents. He probably wouldn't have done that in the course of the investigation. So we're going to be going round and round and we're not going to get anything we're looking for, but the ambition of the Commission's expansion and the conduct of a parliamentary investigation wouldn't yield any results at this stage. For a reason, I think we should be informed of what comes to Parliament, and which does not bear the mark of secrecy objectively inform us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9703	I thank my colleague, Fezlić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9704	Dear colleagues, the SDS MPs' Club does not see the possibility of forming a committee that would have more authority than the commission, which makes it the chairman and two co-chairs. And for that reason, we support Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's proposal means that this commission is finishing the job she's in charge of outside this house. Thank you. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9705	I thank Mr. Novaković for what the Commission thinks he has authority, etc. But I asked, so that was my suggestion. Of course, however it may be concluded that the work of the commission is strengthened for the seriousness of the problem and that the commission is parliamentary, the commission to conduct a parliamentary investigation there is, of course, a lot of work to be done if there is a mood. The way we talk about all this today is that you regret at all what happened to the formation of committees. That's the problem, and I don't mean you, Mr. Novaković, but that people regret having formed a commission, and it puts it in some way, gives the public an answer to what we do. So, I'm saying whether the goal is to conduct a parliamentary investigation or not. If it isn't, please let's get this straight. We've closed the debate. We're going to a plea. So we do. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9706	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I say it's a guilty allegation of what you're suggesting, in fact, or you're assuming that the MPs are repenting. Where'd you get that thesis now that someone's regretting it? Based on what. That's what turns out to be a coup, isn't it? And that's where the thesis was thrown in the paper, so it has to be proved. Now we need to see if we regret it or not. We don't regret it, I don't personally regret it, but I insist that the commission works in the group in which it was appointed, has taken over certain obligations and responsibilities, but not to abuse the members of the commission that we gave them the free hands. We had the first supposed messenger, Zlatko Lagumdžija, and then it grew into our messengers, and then we got the crowd. All of a sudden, we've made a whole lot of it. Next time we'll get both homes maybe involved. So you stick to the theme, gentlemen. Thank you and pleasant.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9707	I thank Mrs. Milićević. I guess I have the right as a living being to have a feeling, and you said you didn't feel that way and there's no problem in the world I didn't call you at all. But what I want to say, I guess as a member of the committee, I have the right to ask my parliament for help. Why don't you come meet me? What you're afraid of. Is that really scary to you, or are there going to be three or six people on the committee? What's the big deal? Well, I thank you for your trust, but I guess I have the right to ask for the help of the Parliament who appointed me. If you care that the Commission is in charge of a parliamentary investigation, you will respect that desire to resolve it. Since you won't have any problems. I will inform you at the next Parliament 78 whether we are in a position to conduct an investigation or not. But in my knowledge, so far I have the feeling that the parliamentary majority will not bite because it has gone astray. I have the right to say that as a representative of the parliamentary commission. I'm asking for help. You're not going to help. We'll brief you at the next session. So by bringing this debate in, I would therefore like to conclude that we have concluded that the parliamentary commission continues to investigate. We'll see what we can do with the materials we got. I want to inform you that I will request that we conduct a parliamentary investigation, and you deny me this right at the next session, and I will ask as a member of the commission to conduct a conversation with all those who hide the information. If I don't have your approval, tell me I don't. If you're expecting me, I'm looking forward to it. I'll be happy to answer that. But I ask your support that I can do it, and no, someone will say you know. Here's Sejo Avdić's conclusion. There's no such thing in that conclusion, Sejo.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9708	You didn't go out for a pay phone. You have all the authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9709	I thank you if we have today. We didn't have one. Please, don't spread. So the conclusion is you will be informed on the basis of what we have received and after conducting a parliamentary investigation. Thank you very much. Can we close this point? Not now. Please. Here, who is for this, therefore, to support this position that the parliamentary commission is continuing to investigate, please be nice, continue the investigation, conduct a parliamentary investigation. So the parliamentary commission, based on the information received, talks and requests for new information, will inform this home. Here I am putting this conclusion to the vote, and you make the rest of the conclusions. I have a written proposal. You have to deliver it to me in writing. I've seen that there's no such mood for enlargement. Please, nice. So mine, this proposal of mine, is an investigation, a parliamentary investigation. We'll call the people we think have information to talk about, ask for information, inform Parliament. The second one is here to extend the Commission of Investigation. I'm also up for this proposal, but here's to vote first on this proposal. 79 _________ [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] So what's gonna be extra? So give me a written proposal. I've made everything clear. _______ [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9712	Ladies and gentlemen of business intervention is because you have provided a monopolitical politicism, you have not allowed the possibility of evenly proposing more conclusions to vote on it, and you have chaired the decision-making process in advance when you said that there is a position of SDS, SDA and HDZ. You assume they'll do it. 80 Therefore, you act the same way as Mr. Džaferović and you take away the word that was before. So I thought I'd suggest that I consider, in the light of the fact that the political alliance has agreed so nicely to only go, that only three, only three members go. I was going to suggest that it would be really correct to expand the commission with Mr. Avdić and Mr. Križanović Joz. That was my suggestion. And you've eliminated and led to the final act that now it's completely excessive. So you've led in one agreed direction along with this alliance to a political position, not to change it and to go in that direction, which is to wave, that nothing happens, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9713	I'd like to ask my colleague Gligorić, just a minute. My primary task is as chairman and to hold a session with the goal of coming to the conclusion. Any debater may have, after the debate, a conclusion that requires that we make a statement. After the debate, after the vote, ask for some conclusion now, I think it's really a waste of time. I have no intention, Mr. Gligorić, of really taking anyone's word, at least today you've had the opportunity to plead as many times as you want and whenever you ask, you'll get your word, but I'm asking you to appreciate this difficult position of the presidency at the moment when it was difficult to reach any conclusion. I think we've come to a good conclusion even though in that conclusion it's going to take the most to work here's this college. And I prayed so today is the mood to do more people on a serious job. There isn't. It's not a dominant mood. What I can do. If you want, I'll put that conclusion to the vote. Here's to extend the commission with the same request Mr Avdić and Mr Jozo Križanović. Who's to adopt this proposal? I'm in, with the same assignment. Who's that? Please, nice. Please. Okay. We want to make a statement. Who has the conclusion? Here you go. Here's Azra Hadžiahmetović. Please. There's no discussion, please. Just sit down, what's wrong with you people.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9714	The chairman, I understand that the vote was just before, that is, your proposal to conclude that the commission continues its work quite excessively because you did not finish the job. You have collegiately informed this Parliament within which you were required to eat as an investigative committee, not as a College. But the job isn't done, and in that sense, I think it's too high to vote whether you're going to continue the job or not. 81 I also understood very well that it is not easy for you. Especially for you, the chairman of the Commission of the Investigation Commission and your call to Parliament to help you, I took it quite seriously. And now really well-intentioned. I suggest that an investigative committee be proposed by Members' clubs or by one member to assist the Commission to complete the procedure. And what I find particularly important, to remind you that the occasion for this debate was a resolution submitted by the SDP that opened the debate at last session of Parliament when we specified the conclusions on what the Commission's task was to obtain, or to give this Parliament answers to some questions. Is that the one that my colleague Lagumdžija repeated today in the seven without the eighth one, or is that some third, second proposal, I don't know. But ask the investigating competent institutions to answer those questions and report to Parliament. That's how much I think it's going to be easier and I think
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9715	I thank my colleague Azra. We just adopted that conclusion. The Commission is conducting a parliamentary investigation. We haven't had that before. Please, I didn't say that for nothing. And that's why I'm asking you to stop at that conclusion. We'll ask for help at the next session if we need it, so we don't change the conclusion from the parties' clubs. So as we discussed today, we'll ask for help if we feel it's necessary, but now we're not getting into a series of new conclusions. Today is a new quality for me because we are going to conduct a parliamentary investigation. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. That's the 15th point. Ad. 15. A report by the Council of Ministers on the initiatives and activities so far in the construction of the V-c highway How do you know we put this item on the agenda at the last session. As neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers nor the resolution minister attended the session, Dom concluded that written information will be requested from the Council of Ministers to be discussed at this session. After the 19th session, the Council of Ministers was given a conclusion to the House for the realization of the same. We received written material from the Council of Ministers on Friday from the Council of Ministers and the Resoring Ministry on this item of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Minister Branko Dokić, the esteemed professor Branko Dokić, asked for a word. Here you go. Okay, a member of the Council of Ministers according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Gligorić has the advantage. Don't say that. He has an advantage, a member of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking for the Council of Ministers' dignity. I'm begging you. Never mind. 82 here are the ministers. Don't say that. Well, I'm doing business. Please be patient. You'll get a chance, no problem at all. Well, it doesn't matter. Well, this isn't a wish, this is a Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Minister. I beg you, Mr. Gligorić, let the minister speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9716	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I expected that after that folk that after the storm comes the silence of discussion on this point will be at least a few decibels of a lower level compared to this previous one, but the beginning seems to suggest that it will not be so. At least unlike the previous point, this time for this point you have exhausting material. It is that you received later, but bear in mind that the Council of Ministers discussed these issues on Friday and therefore that same day was forwarded to the assembly procedure and I ask you to keep that in mind. It was also a variant to propose to Parliament, since it was not urgent matters, to get material and to discuss it at the next session, but I think you've been sufficiently informed through the public. There was also oral information here. Now you have all these documents which, which the Council of Ministers adopted or considered in the previous period. I wouldn't be exhausting your patience right now, so let me say and go from file to document, but I would only keep your attention at the conclusion of the former Council of Ministers session, and then, of course, in a parliamentary debate on all the questions that I am able to answer, I will answer you. We have at this point two offers when it comes to the highway to Corridor V-c which, by the way, are not comparable. We have one offer that offers to finance and build a highway on Corridor V-c within a relatively short period of time, of about 6 possibly 7 years, if a period of documentation is taken and we have, it is an offer from Bosmal and we have an offer from the Croatian Government, that is, we have a letter of intent from the Croatian Government in which they reflect the willingness to finance, or donate project documentation and make these documents. The donation is that it's projected somewhere at $7-9 million, and then after that, a public tender for the selection of concessionaires is launched and that we choose the concessionaire. So you could see that. The essence of this offer. When it comes to Bosmal's offer, following a response from the Council of Ministers, signed by the resolution ministers of communication and transport, was one deadline and one of the essential issues of this offer, a period of 4 months for Bosmal to provide the EUR 300 million that would then be used to produce documentation, expropriation for the soil, etc. etc. So, I repeat, that deadline was supposed to be four months. In the meantime, we received a letter from Bosmal, a Malaysian bank that you have contributed to both 83 English and bad translation, so we also delivered an English version which, according to the Council of Ministers, is not what Bosmal offered, nor is what the Council of Ministers asked for. From Bosmal, therefore, it is not a guarantee, a bank guarantee and funds that could be used after this 4 month. This letter expresses the willingness of this bank to participate in this project and one of the conditions, it seems to me that there are 5 is that these funds would be available, a concession contract must be signed. In his reply, the Council of Ministers said in its conclusion regarding the Croatian offer that it is seriously considering or comprehensively considering their offer since there are some undefined or completely unclear items in the offer, the Ministry of Communication and Transport is tasked with, together with the relevant ministries in the Croatian government, sitting down for a period of time and defining the conditions given there. A competition has already been launched for the selection of members of the commission, you could see it in today's daily newspapers and you will therefore have before this parliament proposals from the concession committee when it is processed, when the competition procedure is completed. The Council of Ministers issued a decision advocacy for the prequalification of companies similar to those for the production of study project documentation for an international highway contest in Corridor V-c according to World Bank standards. This documentation includes drawing up planer study documentation such as previous study of justification for highway construction, spatial traffic study, construction technical study, idea solution, environmental impact study, expert bases for urban permitting and road construction justification studies. The ministry has prepared the content of this ad and will be announced very quickly. Possibly during the week. Since it really is a very important project, large funds that need to be invested here in a relatively short time, if we come to the realization of the project, the Council of Ministers has commissioned the Ministry of Communications and Transport to call an international tender for the selection of the firm or consultant however you want to help in the preparatory phase of the implementation of the project. So some consultant who would help us with the financial documentation stuff, the concession contract itself, etc. etc. In this information you also have one protocol signed by the three Ministers of Communications and Transport of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Hungary, and that protocol defines a point, namely a place where the border between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina meets, let me say the highway from one side to the other. The open question remains an open question of this southern border, because we, on our part, are from Bosnia and Herzegovina still need to define some elements, since there are, I will not say controversial things, but there are things that are not defined at this point. By the end of this year, we will try to deliver a proposal to the relevant Croatian Commission and then the issue will be resolved. In the end, I would also like to stress that, in parallel with all these activities, we have not stopped any moment's activity towards the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European 84 Investment Bank on the creation of conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get a credit card around Sarajevo, which is therefore an integral part of the highway to Corridor V-c and the highway to Banja Luka Gradiška. The physibilities of the study for these shares are one is I think in the final phase, the other is done. It is realistic to expect that half of next year if all the necessary conditions are obtained so that a credit agreement with the IBB could be signed, and then followed and supported by the European Investment Bank. Here's as much as an introduction. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9717	I would like to thank Minister Branko Dokić for his information. Who's calling for a hearing? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9718	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, about that little replica we had from the post of myself and Mr. Chairman, it is obvious that my discussion is causing the two to be disdained means deputy, especially Mr. Džaferović, who often points out his disfavor and Mr. Chairman, in order to do a little bit with these new friends, he has registered a political trinity now, he received three political and good from the SDA and HDZ. So he estimated that someone from the opposition should be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9719	I would ask my colleague Gligorić to stick to the agenda. I have, of course, good co-operation with the members of the College as obviously I have with all of you. I find it very difficult to hold a session the way you MPs insist. Believe me, I'm going to thank myself very soon for someone else doing this for me, because this isn't the call I was born on and I'm not enjoying this place. I'd like to ask you to allow a session to take place. Don't blame me. Maybe sometimes I'm not raised. Maybe it's not trendy for you. It's not intentional. You picked up today. No matter how many times you wanted you got your word. Especially don't talk about your colleague Džaferović because he's not here. If you have anything to say to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9720	I managed to say something in passing, he says I know everything he's going to do, he made a deal with you, so that's it. Next. Yeah, well, that's normal. We've seen it at the previous point when the chairman wasn't adopted, actually you, Mr. Chairman, are in your own independent blockade of two other deputies who don't let you do your job. You've publicly admitted it. But we don't want to talk about it. 85 The agenda item is the V-c Corridor Report. First of all, I think they make good customs. You know, if someone was trying to suggest that item of the agenda and if most MPs supported it, then it would be correct to hear what that something had to say at least here if it was a good democratic relationship. But that's not important either. Minister, Professor. Dokić correctly expressed that part of his meaning orally and even suggested it would be good to have a discussion at the second session. I was going to go out and actually suggest it, or now I suggest to the Members that we accept this proposal, simply because we have received a large amount of material and it is a good thing that we have received it, but at the same time we are not able to speak to Minister Dokić equally because the man has too much information, he does so daily in relation to the MPs who asked to discuss it. We got that at the session today, and I don't think most of you even looked at it. I think it would be good to set a deadline to postpone this agenda item for the next session and conduct an evenly practical discussion on an important project. Because if you think it's not enough to put such an important project for Bosnia and Herzegovina so large a 6 billion mark in Bosnia and Herzegovina under parliamentary control, then I don't think we understand each other. Webiti all be practical myself last time I spoke I didn't get practical support from the position to say so about this agenda point, which I think is very bad. And that's why I think it would be good, because we've actually learned more from the media about the initiative and everything that's been going on about this important project and we've heard about the proposal of the Republic of Croatia, we've heard that the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development wants to participate, we've heard about Bosmal at the same time, and at the same time we've heard the possibility of maybe some of the others that are going to come forward. It is not our turn, therefore, to hear it from the press, but it is our turn to hear it from our body, which we formed by the Ministry or the Council of Ministers. It was an emergency to get to that practically, and that's why I wanted to and needed to say it. I would say quite differently if I had received enough material in time to suggest that we leave it for the next session and that we could have a quality discussion on this issue. If that's what we want, if not, then I suggested something by thinking that it would interest others to just not have a new affair in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina is full of practically an affair, and then I announced them. There may be another new one that will be of 6 billion marks to Mr. Džaferović. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9721	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Wait a minute, Mr. Raguž's intervention. Please just a little bit you'll all get the word. 86 What I was about to say, we adopted this item on the agenda, so we have to have a debate, I think Mr. Gligorić's proposal not to discuss this today, I can't, it's unclear to me. So the agenda point exists and I would now ask all the debaters when they are discussing not coming back to the end of the agenda to subtract the right of the chairman to define the conclusion, if you have the conclusions that after the debate in writing you are given to make a statement on the conclusions. And so while this is the agenda point, we have to discuss it. It was not my goal, we must inform Mr Gligorić not to say it, but to do business whenever someone asks, so the Minister from the Council of Ministers or the Chairman, that they have a business advantage. So it wasn't my goal to give someone more meaning, someone less, but my job is to protect the dignity and Council of Ministers and Ministers in the Council of Ministers when they ask for a word. The Republic was requested by Mr. Vice-President Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9722	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not prone to replication, but, Your Honor, Mr. Gligorić, we've known each other a long time, and we should understand once that the time of generalization has passed. I think you should be here fine when you mention someone's name and position and function to offer and arguments. So I supported the formation of the Commission of Investigation and in no way obstructing the work of the Investigative Commission, because of the public you so finely accuse the Vice-President without any arguments, and I supported your proposal last time to find this point on the agenda. And I have no intention of having any different relationship with you on any principle regarding any other agent. And I think that's correct. That's a minimum of correctness, so let's keep it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9723	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. I'd like to ask you more about information, less about each other's replicas, if possible. The word was answered by dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, then Mr Momčilo Novaković, then Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, then Mr Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9724	Dear Chairman, I, as most MPs, managed to fly over close information, or papers, even though we didn't have enough time to analyze them in more detail. There was no need in any case to thank the Resort 87 Ministry for allowing us to make an insight into the original documents that probably most MPs were unknown even though they were spoken of a lot. I will, although someone may not like to remind you of one, of one part of my discussion when we were actually in April or May two months ago, so there are already a little more debate about Corridor V-c, when I am quite well-intentioned in communication, I think we understood Mr. Dokić and I suggested a line of moves. Unfortunately, in this order of move, the key thing has been missed, which is that by now a concession committee has already been appointed to give authority to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the restoring ministry to respond to self-initiative offers, to call tenders, to negotiate, or any action, because the alternative to that is exactly what happened now, which is that the Council of Ministers has become a little entangled and I think it is very difficult for the restoring ministry to provide itself with activities independent of the regulators. And if it's the ministry or the Council of Ministers, then we've got a bullet somewhere. I am analysing these papers that you have provided us with in addition to this information on page 4 of the information on prepared activities in recital 3. stand – besides Bosnia and Herzegovina, great interest in construction has been expressed by Hungary and Croatia which intend to build parts of this corridor in its area at the highway level by 2009. Logically, I know the Pan European Corridor, I know the shares of Corridor V-c and therefore I find it confusing to me to conclude, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion, i.e. the conclusion 3. – in the light that the highway has an exceptional strategic significance for both BiH and the Republic of Croatia. There's no mention of Hungary here anymore. This is a very important moment. I am speaking and warning for the simple reason that one of the self-initiative offers or how we might interpret it as a letter of intent is exactly one of the Member States through which Corridor V-c passes, i.e. the V-c section, and where we might possibly be able to run into some problems by considering such an offer or letters of intent as a serious offer throughout the package to say possible award of concessions. Furthermore, here in this material I was really pleasantly surprised as probably all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that, although I even considered it too much of a formality for the ministry to declare Corridor V-c, that is, a share that passes through BiH as if there was a public interest in construction. I don't really know if there's anyone in this country who's slowing down and who doesn't have that interest in building Corridor V-c. It may possibly be crazy for a short term, but in the long run I think all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are very well aware of what Corridor V-c means, and what it means for BiH's economy is a whole set of multiplicity effects that this investment would bring to Bosnia and Herzegovina as a construction of this one project. But it is simply incomprehensible to me, excuse me, Mr Dokić, that the decision on the existence of public interest is, that is, in making that decision, you are calling for a self-initiative offer offered by one of the potential concessionaries. Here, just before the decision was made, the decision was published in BiH Official Messenger number 23 pages 515, before the big letters, a decision on the existence of interest 88 of public interest for the construction of Corridor V-c, calling for it to be noted that the Council of Ministers at the 16th session assessed the acceptable self-initiative offer of Bosmal. It is incomprehensible that only one self-initiative offer is being called upon by the Council of Ministers to call at all on any initiative offer to declare Corridor V-c with the public interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, the proposal for the conclusions made by the Council of Ministers states that information is to be adopted. Furthermore, the second conclusion concerns the conclusion in the context of Bosmal's own-initiative offer, which you speak of, that is to say, the Council of Ministers finds that the content does not correspond in terms of meeting the conditions offered by Bosmal himself. Furthermore, this conclusion calls for the condition of the bank's offer by prior signing of the Bosmal concession agreement. So we are already talking about a concession contract here, and if we had not yet appointed a concession committee that would eventually decide to award a concession to or which would possibly be the authority of Mr Dokić or the Council of Ministers to award the concession. So a whole line of wrong steps has been taken which is why you will be brought in, if you are not already in one terribly difficult situation and you as a resolution minister and Council of Ministers as a whole, and I am not saying that this country will be put into a position that a whole project that is of public interest here will be put into question by its realisation. Furthermore, here it is mentioned in conclusion 3 again, given that the highway has strategic significance for both BiH and Croatia. There's no Hungary here. The conclusion here is, if there are two countries already standing, all three should stand through which section of Corridor V-c passes. And likewise, perhaps this is the occasion, if they did not submit a self-initiative offer, possibly Hungary or any third country or any other Bosmal, or any other potential performers to ask, wouldn't it be logical that the Council of Ministers, when an own-initiative offer or a hint of a self-initiative offer appeared, and perhaps even considered calling a tender for the collection of self-initiative offers? And that's one line of moves in which you might have in one time period maybe one package in which you would respond to all the self-initiative offers. You've been very argumentative like this, you've given a media response to one, and now you're in front of the other, and you have to deal with it and, of course, every next one that you have to answer just as much as you're on the first, no matter who it's about. Furthermore, it stands here – the Ministry is tasked with working with representatives of the competent ministries of the Republic of Croatia to further elaborate and bring the technical and financial issues listed in the letter of intent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which the Council of Ministers would make a final decision. I will now ask you the same question as four months ago when it was Bosmal. - Who authorized you to, or who gave you the authority of the Resort Ministry or the Council of Ministers when no concession committee has yet been formed? All this information is referred to Article 25. The concession law, and let me read that key item. 3. of Article 25. – The ministry is requesting a commission to obtain a mandate for negotiations with 89 bidders. And we don't have a commission. The ministry, or the Council of Ministers, became an independent regulator, regardless of whether Bosmal was yesterday, is now the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Dokić, I suggest you suspend all actions until a concession commission is appointed. Otherwise you'll be working against the law. Furthermore, here is the order of the move under the 4th conclusion – the Council of Ministers will submit a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly for members of the concession committee after the completion of the competition procedure that has already been initiated under the Law on concessions, if as I well understood the competition announced today. I don't know how open it is, but at least 15 days later, entities, entity governments will nominate members of the commission and propose to the Council of Ministers, then react to OHR to nominate that stranger. In the most favourable version, we will have a commission in January. Until then, either don't do anything, or don't do anything to get brought into the field to work against the legal or speed up the formation of members of the concession committee. Furthermore, the Council of Ministers takes a decision on the launch of an ad for the pre-qualification of companies similar to those for the production of study project documentation for international highway competitions in Corridor V-c according to World Bank standards. I, who gets a little bit more into this volume of terminology, I've been trying to trace what the Council of Ministers is making, what kind of advert it wants to make. Here you are, in some way, overcoming one burden from a professional body that for a project such as Corridor V-c, which is of public interest, as both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers have said, etc. Unfortunately, by referring to one of the self-initiative offers, on the basis of all of this, you are entering into the production of a study project documentation, something that should be done by one expert body of a college type, perhaps some consulting agency, agency or something else, and I am not talking about it because it is a strategic project for this country to say it is a road management that you would have established under one road law that you could have easily come up with, or prepared on the basis of public interest for the Corridor V-c project. If Corridor V-c doesn't deserve us to pass the road law and form a road directorate at the state level that will do all these jobs that you have in one way or the Council of Ministers or the Resort Ministry, then I don't see that it deserves one facility. And okay, I would suggest that you make the first move, which is the adoption on the basis of the fact that Corridor V-c is declared a project of public interest, to pass a road law, or to prepare a road law or a law on Corridor V-c, if someone thinks he doesn't deserve a name like this, and to urgently form a highway directorship, i.e. the roads that will carry out all of these activities here relating to the making of documentation, advertising and everything else. And in parallel, of course, that the concessions commission that needs to be formed urgently should implement the procedure of an international tender or authorising the granting of authority to the restoring ministry to respond to self-initiative offers. Otherwise I really do 90 more once, here now maybe a little bit sharper than last time I warn you that you will work and that you are coming to the field against legal work. If I have to prove it, here's another time I'm going to read the provisions of the concession law. If the law is not in force, then submit an initiative to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9725	I thank Azra, my colleague Azra. Mr. Novaković answered further, so Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9726	Ladies and gentlemen, accepting that this point today is on the agenda, I assumed and I think that most of us assumed that the promoter has a certain goal, which is that this debate will result in certain conclusions, decisions, or is a point of self-informative character, therefore with the aim of informing ourselves. As far as I know, we have come to the conclusion that the Council of Ministers provides us with written information on current activities, means on this project and that this information means we are discussing today. For this reason, I do not understand why the point is called the Council of Ministers' Report, not information about these activities, and I assume that technical nature is called means report instead of information. If the goal is to get information, then we have that information, then we don't adopt it, do we? Of course, that doesn't mean we can't have suggestions, remarks, certain conclusions as the House here referred to the Council of Ministers. But it would be logical and normal, and I expect Mr Gligorić to come out with some suggestions as a proposal for this agenda point, meaning, in the light of, therefore, that this information is here before us, so it's quite logical now that we get some suggestions about this information. Are we going to form an investigative committee now to determine whether the Council of Ministers has broken the law or not, and if so, let's go, we have to have a goal. Are we going to form a youth task force, and then go make our way? Are we going to take the Council of Ministers' right to decide on this and to work on this project, or are we simply going to accept this information with a lock that we have already brought once, which is that the Council of Ministers regularly informs us about the activities of the Construction Corridor means Corridor V-c. So I'm asking that in this direction we don't really waste much time on this point, but to be quite concrete. And as soon as we talked about it, we got the information she did. I have no reason to doubt, therefore not one point expressed here, as I have no intention of adopting the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers, because they should not be adopted. They were adopted by the Council of Ministers. So all we can say is that he crossed his authority by adopting something that wasn't in his authority. Yeah, I don't think that's what happened. 91 I also welcome what the story further means includes some others, some interested besides Bosmal. I think that's what we're going to get at the quality of this whole process, and I've got, and in the media, information has also appeared that some consortium of Russian banks have shown interest, at least in the media. I don't have it here whether it's really like that or if it's one of these kind of information that's pretty unchecked, it means, but I also had that kind of information. If that's true, then it's obvious this process becomes, this process goes in the same direction that we're in here when we decided we should go. It means that no one is favored, but that in the whole process there are more interested and that some quality follows. If we're going to take this information into consideration, and I think it should have been noted, because we've already received it by getting it, then I expect one proposal, one group of locks, and we're having a discussion about these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9727	I thank my colleague Novaković. I warned the debaters if there was any conclusion he must have written in writing so we wouldn't end up making a mess. In that regard, Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović also had, at least I thought a few conclusions, actually recommendations and conclusions. If you think they should be declared by Parliament, I ask you to define them in writing. Explanation. Please. Okay, okay. I mean, only at the end when we're bringing her in. So the warning was about the previous point, not just this. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija picked up the words, so Mr. Moranjkić came forward. for the discussion. I'm asking you to listen a little bit, a little patience, you're all tired of today's session, but let's listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9728	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must admit that I am truly pleased that we have come to talk about such a theme about the project of the century, as many have called it on the basis of written information that introduces a little more light into what has been so far. We received this information this morning and I was just out of the sighting of the importance of its good part of today's Parliament's session spent here reading it, although I was also in doubt whether it was possible at all to read such a complex information, because it contains several very complex documents that have been exchanged we have been seeing for almost 4 months between interested investors and the Council of Ministers. I must admit that now on the basis of this analysis that could be done here today, and I will be here for a magnetogram and for the truth for the future, because we forget very often what we have said about this speaker, what I think about this information that you have given, 92 I will give you a critical review of it, an assessment of what I think is good from what you have done, all in the hope that at the next session of Parliament we will get one more quality set of answers to these proposals and suggestions that you have already heard and let's say what has been respected colleague Hadjiahmetovic said, half of those suggestions and suggestions are enough for us all to go through this together and then at the next session of Parliament you give us, as the Council of Ministers, I mean further information that would bring more light into what is before us. I have to admit that when I saw what was written here in the information, as I became suspicious, at first moment I thought that I was actually now clear why you were hiding all this information from us, because there's a lot of what was done here so it's at the expense of the whole project. I'll be exact what I mean by that. I agree, and I think it is very good that you here, in the opening remarks of your colleague Dokić, have introduced us to further pursue some of the activities towards Eberde and that they refer to the bypass around Sarajevo and the highway of Banja Luka Gradiška. These are things that have been going on for a long, long time and here some signatories of the documents are sitting, because this Parliament and the Council of Ministers have already paved the way for this bypass around Sarajevo and the highway of Banja Luka Gradiška to begin in reasonable time. However, it remains unclear from what you have just mentioned whether the bypass around Sarajevo is the highway of Banja Luka Gradiška, which is certainly of interest to all of BiH whether it is a state project or a project of Banja Luka and Gradiška or perhaps only Republika Srpska. The fact that you put it in this context today – information about Corridor V-c has asked me to conclude, I hope with the right that the project Banja Luka Gradiška is a project of our common interest, not a project of interest for people travelling between Banja Luka and Gradiška and there gravitate. And I think it's very good if you put this entire corridor approach, not just the V-c, but the highways in BiH in that context. I would ask you fellow Dokić and you and you who are here to pass on to the rest of the Council of Ministers who has a habit of communicating through the press to listen to us. I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be excused by anyone to whom this has become boring, but I will indeed have to take your time on the basis of this information to tell you very specifically what I think you need to answer us and what are the constructive mistakes that I now unfortunately see that you have accumulated in this whole procedure. I would ask you, therefore, my colleague Špirić that, I will formulate it later as a conclusion, but that one of the conclusions is that after we talk about this today, at the next session of the Council of Ministers, we will try to give the answers to the suggestions that have been made here, their comments and their comments, possibly seeing them correcting their own conclusions, because there is no reason not to correct them, you have corrected them many times without us so far. You see, I'm sorry, there's no chairman of the Council of Ministers, we could see today, that's what drew me a few people's attention to, that in his favorite paper where people appear to be coming out in natural size there, we're being told that this V-c corridor could be paid by Russia's debts to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Germany, and now it's being introduced into the game of new fog. Now there's a new fog on the pier. Now, 93 of us with Bosmal are going to do what's a little bit of a swing now we're going to offer you a story about how you know Russia owes Bosnia and Herzegovina, and all the luck and Germany, and then we're going to have Russian as it says in certain media, which obviously gets information before us, and then Russian machinery, I guess with Russian workers, will come here to make it, and that's going to be all instead of that long clearing that they have towards us. Fortunately there are Nijemac who will probably give some engineering and we will finally get a Russian-German highway. It's the only thing we've been able to find out now in the last few days, and unfortunately, I don't have any information about it. And the chairman of the Council of Ministers escaped from Parlmant by means of a device. Đaba, I'm not gonna have to listen to this, no one has to listen, I'm gonna do this in the Rules of Procedure as far as I'm concerned to start you from point to point as you gave us today.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9729	And how long does that take?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9730	I don't know, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9731	I'm asking you to listen to yourself without being nervous. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9732	As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to listen to this at all, because the right to tell you what I'm saying is you don't hear it. And if you hear it, you obviously either won't understand it, or act like it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9733	I'd hear it, but I don't have anything to hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9734	I'm begging you without throwing away. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9735	I know you don't. I know, I believe you have nothing from me to hear, because obviously what I'm saying is hard for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9736	I would pray, I will begin to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning sanctions against the Members of Parliament. That's what I'm gonna hate to do. So please don't throw it away. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9737	Thank you. I want on the basis of this information that we've got to find out that you've fooled the world with a story about Bosmal who's going to bring the highway here for nothing. You've deceived people, and people are going to have a very difficult time experiencing it now. There were a lot of people here who expected that somewhere in the fall of this year, domestic companies would finally get a job and start making a highway to Corridor V-c with the help of the funds that someone found to give them to us, as you were saying here for nothing. Even next to you sitting there your deputy who claimed that what I was saying from this pay phone, what you're now writing about doing, what you're now writing about how to do, you're now writing that it should be done. Even your deputy from the press was telling me that I was an ordinary engineer, so I don't understand. I have the right to tell you that I thought to my colleague Dokić that he was telling you this, because you are an engineer, as am I, but by taking a thorough look at the documentation, I realized that man thinks of me too. So, and now I have expected, indeed, from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and from your associates to say nicely, correctness for this is the information that you gave us before us, when you counted what was done and in the framework of preparatory activities, you should have stated here that this debate was being held in Parliament. Everything that has been done here has been numbered, but it is not mentioned that a debate has been held in Parliament and it is not counted what we have asked you to do in Parliament. I now responsibly claim that the problem is not at all these Bosmal boys, they're no problem at all, they're welcome in this whole story. But I can see now that you are practically by your insubordination and misjudged them, as I see you are going towards deluding knowingly or not knowingly the Government of the Republic of Croatia from what you can see, and I will give you this argument here, to explain it, because you have now remembered on one occasion that for the sake of a feasibility study, you once remembered that the boys did not bring you a bank guarantee, and you didn't even ask for it in these letters. I'm going to show you by argument that you didn't ask them to do it at all. And you to drag us further into a spiral that doesn't lead anywhere, you say that if they brought a letter to the whole, a whole amount of 2.5 billion, then they might qualify. Which also has absolutely nothing to do with it. Two months ago I gave you suggestions that were welcomed here with animosity, you refused those suggestions, I only ask you to listen to all this, to hear what you're told, to learn a little lessons from this and try to correct a constructive mistake. In fact, you've also mixed up international tenders here for the financing of the entire arrangement and domestic tenders for the operation. You've practically put us in a position here that when we read your information, we don't know what you promised people or what they're offering you or how you're going to get out of this. The only thing you don't have the guts to tell the public is that you've fooled the public with a story about Bosmal. Let's take it in a row. Information for Parliament. It has everything in it, except for what was in Parliament. This is where we found out that the presidency talked twice about this. It turns out from this that the Presidency sent you Bosmal or someone else, and then 8.6. to you Bosmal as it says here offers unconditionally, I repeat the unconditional 95 security of funds for making investment technical documentation and providing funds for the operation of the entire project without a state guarantee, undermining the state guarantee. You here in this information don't supply us with information that says that in May of this year the World Bank offered to help you in a feasibility study, you don't say here that the letter from the World Bank arrived on July 14th reminding you of what Minister Hadžiahmetović as minister signed, if I'm not mistaken, when we got $33 million to rebuild the road with, as far as I remember with the conditions of 10 years grace period, 35 years paid off after 10 years and 0% interest. It's all over the financial world called a gift from the World Bank to the countries and then the World Bank sent you a letter in July 14th that reminds you of that. On July 30, it was repeated to you, and yet you sent a reply between July 14th and July 30th, so on July 23rd, you sent a reply to Bosmal. True, it took you a month to respond to the letter you Bosmal to them at the Council of Ministers, now we see it here, accepted it at the end of the sixth month. 21.8. The Government of the Republic of Croatia gives you a letter of preparedness, see what it says here – to finance and implement, I repeat, finance and implement the production of study and other preparatory documents on the sole condition that an international tender is opened within a year. What can you see here? That the Government of the Republic of Croatia has negotiated so much, she has only told you that she is willing to finance it. Is she ready to offer a loan? Is she ready to pay that as a donation? Is she willing to pay for it as her participation in some concession tomorrow at that firm that's supposed to get a concession? Is that not clear? However, there is no need to lend us any government of any country in a situation where we already have more favourable resources in this possibility to withdraw from the World Bank. And be careful what stands here, to finance and implement a feasibility study. What does that mean? This means that Croatia is ready to do what is the government's job, to do project documentation, to do a feasibility study, to prepare everything for the tender. So here we are offered another new delusion. We are not against Bosmal or anyone else for a feasibility study to finance it, but we are in order to do so exclusively by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in other words Croatia cannot do so either. So here we are now explained in this fact that Croatia has actually offered us something that could be immediately seen in that letter, which is already two months old, that it does not solve anything for us. Then what happens to the letter of Bosmal, what do people talk about? People are saying, because you printed us in the Official Journal of the published text, which is practically how it is written literally here – the session held on 16th, 26th and 30th June rated the acceptable self-initiative offer of Bosmal. In other words, you said in the Official Journal that what people sent us was okay, that it was okay. What's in that letter? In that letter, people say to secure an initial payment of 300 million dollars and that it is on its way $2.3 billion. Although the same document says that it takes EUR 2.5 billion, it is very unclear what you have accepted. 96 The document also contains a proposal for conditions under which the concession will be awarded. It says here, quotes "Bosmal is the only responsible party to find the financing for construction", be careful to underline – Bosmal is the only responsible party to find the funds for pollution. You accepted that. You accepted that no one but them has the right to seek finance. It says here to his colleague Džaferović, writing in documents that you received and wrote in the Official Journal that it was accepted as such. It also says that domestic participation, watch what it says, the Council of Ministers, I quote, will not be included in the selection of contract partners, end of quotes. This is where you accepted the offer by which you say
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9738	Nikola for a little while, it really doesn't make sense, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9739	Mr. Džaferović, this is Parliament. I'd ask you not to throw it at me. I'm talking about things that need to know and who's interested.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9740	I'm not really talking to you at all. Don't, I mean, with the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9741	I'm begging you, let's just listen a little bit and stick to the Rules of Procedure. A little patience. It's about the important subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9742	Of course there's time. It doesn't, it doesn't make sense, we're not gonna end up, up.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9743	I'm asking my colleague Lagumdžija to stick to the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9744	I thank my colleague Špirić, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to speak of this as long as I speak within the agenda. I speak exclusively in the context of the agenda. In point 7 of that letter, which you have today given us that period of concession quotes, we agree to give a 40-year concession from the completion of works on V-c and the certificate of usability. It's in the 8th toll point. The Council of Ministers will give its consent to any normal variation of toll to more than the roads of the main Pan of the European highway. What does 97 mean? This means that the Council of Ministers agrees that tomorrow it can increase the toll regardless of what it is contrary to the responding European documents. In point 10. Bosmal's responsibility states that their readiness for commitments is EUR 300 million and that here is where the purchase of land goes and that 300 million and Bosmal has committed to the deadline, that this will end in 4 years and 1 year of making documentation. That's what it says in the barefoot letter. You've been telling us about 7-8 years or 6. What you've been doing in your response since July 23rd. You here first start with the OHR doing a program of work and justice, but let's let it go now. It says Bosmal is, you wrote to them like this – Bosmal is the only responsible party to find financial resources to build Corridor V-c if it is found in the role of concessionaires. The concession period will be based on the feasibility study. You wrote to them that a feasibility study would determine what period of concession. And with that same document, you gave them the right to conduct a feasibility study. You've put us in a position in a certain way that whoever we're giving to work tomorrow will determine how long he'll be using it. That's what you wrote to people here. You also told them that within 4 months, that you should, be careful what you replied in item 10 that within point 4 of point 10 under 1 within 4 months you will need to be provided with evidence of the insurance of EUR 300 million. Yeah, so you didn't ask them for a bank guarantee at all. So you didn't ask them for a guarantee at all. You didn't ask them for a bank guarantee at all. And the people brought you what you asked of them. So these guys brought you what you told them to bring you. You even told them in this, the translation is believe me in translation like this, although at first you told us that the translation might not be good. You told people here to bring you proof of financial security within four months. And people have brought you evidence of a letter of intent. You didn't tell them anywhere, except in the media later that they needed a guarantee. And then in the same point, point 10 below point 3 you say and repeat in your letter that the feasibility study is the basis for the lease of concessions. In other words, you just confirmed to them that they will determine how much it costs. Unfortunately, the letter we receive from Croatia introduces a new chaos, a completely new chaos. Here Croatia is giving us lectures on how they, as they say, will say here in the letter about the planned concession for 40 years, which shows that you told Croatia that they would get a concession for 40 years, because people did not think about it. And then people give us the order of moves with the direction right, each of those 7 points that will be done in accordance with European standards. And then you accept from them something like that, and then they're working at the end of that letter, offering you something that's completely contrary to European standards. So, the Croatian government gave you a lecture on European standards, then almost two full months ago she wrote that they will do for you what the work of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those who gave you a lecture on European standards offered you something that is completely contrary to European standards and you explain to us that they are still in play. So what did you do? You have made the World Bank for someone who is almost unnecessary here, you have allowed Croatia to give us 98 lectures, right because there are such, Bosmal boys who came here with an offer you took them in the wrong direction and now we have what we have. The letter of Bosmal shows that in fact they are all telling you that they will give, among other things they said, you can see there both in English and in our language it says that people will say that they will find a guarantee that once they enter into a further arrangement they will find a suitable fuse. So Bosmal suits you that it's all right, but you have to give guarantees. That's what the BOSMAL document says. And normally, it says here that in 14 days, the deadline Bosmal gave you, or Bank Islam, is the Islamic Bank. In 14 days, the deadline expires, and that 14-day deadline expired 15 days ago. So I don't even know if what we have in front of us is valid or not. Unfortunately, unfortunately, by now you have managed to ruin the offer of Bosmal that was good, you have managed to destroy what the World Bank has offered us, I hope not at all. You have succeeded in dragging Croatia into something that is not of this country's interest if what it says is true and you tell them that you will continue to work with them. And because of this, my colleague Dokić, since I am not sorry for the chairman, he knew what he was missing, I suggest that the role of the Council of Ministers be very clearly defined and that the Council of Ministers must - to be in charge, above all, to prioritize investments, both public and private, - to provide transparency in order to better attract a foreign investor, - to determine potential toll effects, - to identify the needs for capacity at different stages of the network, - to provide detailed project documentation in the tender process, as a commitment by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means technical study, an idea solution and study of justification, - then the Council of Ministers to create a draft concession contract that will ensure that everyone competes for the same thing, - that under the 3rd maximum level of government support in all these cases, and under the 4th, to make the criteria of only the decision-making of the award and consideration is maintained. I also suggest that you commit yourself, even if you suggest that you do not suggest that Parliament inform this matter monthly until this is entered into a normal rut. I suggest you stop fooling the BiH public and stop freaking out and scaring foreign investors who come here with their interests that are legitimate and that you say to the public fine that point 5th and 6th of your conclusion is something that stands with you, which is to run on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make up the documents I mentioned and correct the constructive mistake you made. In every country in the world and you and the President of the Council of Ministers would withdraw after this, I am not asking you, because if I asked you to, it means nothing to you, but I think that you stop playing with the dreams and with the public of this country and more to remind you of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed a letter of intent with a debut informing us that we have received a billion-dollar investment in electricity in January. It's been 5 99 months and then we found out also through you and the Presidency that we're going to get $3 billion for nothing. Now we've learned that the Rus and the Nijemac will build us a road here. I would really ask you to stop bombing with unserious and big fogs, because what you're doing right now, this directly undermines the economic power of this country. I'll stop here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9745	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Moranjkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9746	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk to this information under the alleged signs, because I couldn't afford to comment on the document that when I sat down and made myself comfortable with what was said in this House, that information was welcomed on the table. I do not accept such documents, such information, because this parliament is becoming extremely unserious and unworkable. Why is it like that? It's already the things that are being stalked that when something needs to be ruined or we don't do it right, that's where the commission is made up, there's material being brought to the table when it's supposed to start or something's getting used to getting out of the way. I'll talk about information carefully heard by Mr. Secretary. The information the minister filed is not the same as his boss's telling him. And other stories that are heard on the other side that are still relevant in this whole thing tell quite a third. I wonder who this messenger trusts today, who this people can trust, and who the whole public can trust? Is the current course and sequence of actions logical and correct as presented? Let's say, you heard a little more detailed analysis of Mr. Lagumdžija. He probably took that written document and then found what he found and here he presented it. I'm not getting into that. What you would suggest is, please, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, you have agreed on what you will do and speak especially when it comes to this particular project that we have called the project of the century for this country. Please. If this is only 10% right, then I'm starting to get lost as a man and as an MP in this House, and I don't know who to trust or what to tell that poor citizen who might be waiting at my door to ask, and what do you decide about that project? What conclusion did I come to? As time is a little bit of a cotter, and the information is coming to us, I come to the conclusion that we are increasingly uninformed about the course of certain actions and events that are happening here. And then normally as a man, I start to lose, because I wouldn't want to tell Mr. Secretary if it weren't for what he said. And I wouldn't tell his boss if it wasn't true, but there are stories in college, these interpretations, or those statements, and it's causing interference and interference and thinking about solving this problem. 100 Therefore, I would ask, the relationship would say that, perhaps it is too harsh for me to now formulate that such an approach seems unserious, that this approach does not lead to any resolution and serious business and the serious setting up of this Parliament according to it, is it dissipation of Parliament, is it the deception of Parliament, is it public deception, is it true? I don't know what it is anymore, so I would also comment on the following information, I will ask Mr. Minister, do it so that she will at least be read together at the Council of Ministers and reflect the Council of Ministers' thinking and joint activities on this problem, and not everyone should place their information and essentially disinformation on this problem. This country and this people, I'm every day among these people, they've turned their eyes on this, and then I shouldn't have heard what I've read here today, and what I've read in the papers, and I shouldn't have easily commented on them, or I'd have caught the first half-written man right away, not to say in a lie, but I'll catch up with you in proportion to what's going on and how the official state authorities are doing and I wouldn't like it to happen, so I'd ask Mr. Minister to take a little different approach, maybe what Mr. Minister has said is such a situation, but if what's happening to these thoughts isn't good and we shouldn't be setting him up like this. It is, I said, I will not go in without an analysis, because I have not read a sentence by sentence, and as my recommendation, I would give it to the Council of Ministers and Mr. Minister who tried here anyway, he has tried to give the information as it is, he imagines it should be given to this Parliament. Unfortunately, here's what he did. And finally, you chaired the suggestion, on demand, especially in this House very often written conclusions, so written conclusions. We're having a discussion, we're correcting ourselves, we're working here so that one word means pulling both sides. Unserious conclusions lead to unserious work and an unserious approach to work. In the course of such heated debates that I am sitting here writing a conclusion, I have never experienced in my 40-year political work. When we discuss something, we get into a situation, then please give us a break or something to show up in 10 minutes with written conclusions to present to you, so let's say, now he's arrived at the table, in these 10 minutes that, that, and to sort them out in some order and see how we're going to set it up. Otherwise, I think we come to one no, another situation. I have heard the conclusions today which are oralally addressed and the conclusions that are not accepted to be orally engaged, which means that we have two arches in Parliament, which doesn't lead to good and I don't think that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9747	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I was praying I would try, of course, every point to conclude in the way I think it's meaningful, but really please, it's not illogical that even in the 40 years of political practice people change according to democratic standards. And I'm changing believe from session to session with the goal of getting to the successful conclusion of the session and where 101 where I may not like it, and that's why I'm calling again, if someone thinks specifically to define that after the debate in written form, you're helping me, and you're helping yourself, and we're going to get out of this point as successfully as everyone else did. Mr. Gligorić answered the words, as I noted, so Mr. Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9748	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I don't need to be nervous, especially when I'm talking about the congregation majority, because we're working in a permanent session, and don't limit speaking MPs, let me tell you an example in Texas when the MP was speaking for 42 hours and 20 minutes, and that's the world record. Only this parliament can limit a particular discussion and say we will discuss so much and so much, if the MP does not repeat himself, constantly suggests as Professor Lagumdžija did. Over and over again he had new and new information and I don't think it was correct to warn him.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9749	Well, I don't think, I think everyone's got a chance to talk. I'm asking you really, you'll all get a chance to speak, but to speak in accordance with the agenda. There's no need to warn us about that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9750	Mr. Novaković somehow helped me to get to the point easier, because he said it was correct and he said it correctly, it was sort of normal for me to suggest this point of the agenda and the conclusions. But I'm in a dilemma right now. I suggested one conclusion that it would be good to postpone this agenda point because we failed to study all the materials. The ministry is on its own, Professor Dokić is correct, everything that has been practically on the table so far has been delivered to us and we should study it and then make a proposal for a conclusion. I agree with Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion, which he concluded among other things, I just didn't notice if he delivered it in writing. He made a move on what was necessary to do and yes, it would be difficult now of course and repeat what he was saying. I'd ask him to deliver it. Next. It was Mr. Novaković's question why the report, and we have information. These two things get in the way, because the report and the information aren't the same. I've formulated the agenda point and it's a well-formed report. But, College, I don't know who asked for information. The report always stands when a lower authority, in this case the Council of Ministers reports a higher authority and it simply requires people to know and distinguish. Therefore, why this has been hurt and how educated those who lead Parliament are, that is another thing, but you have to make some difference in terms. 102 I am now unable to give a proposal of conclusions simply because, and I have them because it would be simple, I would come to a new situation although Mr. Novaković, I said correctly, but probably with a desire to find me unprepared,...something is suggesting, and there is no conclusion, because I do, but we are at this stage today at which you do not know what to do about this and this important project, how to propose something except until previous things are done that will require a normal proposal for conclusions. So I suggest we go to the next session. And one more thing I would suggest and pray for, I pray for the leadership of the House of Representatives, which is, in particular, the Ministry, Professor Dokić that you have in mind that in this country, if you want, I will give you that conclusion, and now one of the conclusions is taken into account when building the highway when we pass all the legal procedure and get to the point that we have to keep an eye on the negotiations with anyone or go to public works. Because a man told me that he had a machine that could lay an avalanche three miles [3 km] in a day with an assistence of seven workers. Do we need... in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or do we need this poor woman to hire who will take 2 billion marks to share our workers, our operatives, our construction and others. What Germany did before the war and today is better than with modern machines. Or we think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we should keep up with what it does in America, Germany and Switzerland. Gentlemen, this country should go in order, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 1st, 2nd. 3. He can't jump three, five, eight. It can't be because we're neither economically nor at such a height of consciousness that we can withstand what's normal in the West, the 1st, the 2nd, the 3rd and the 4th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9751	Thank you. I'm asking you really, I appreciate that there's been a late update, but I'm asking the debaters to stick to the information. Mr. Lagumdžija read the information and he was taxing. I don't want to talk about high-value courts, we're going to make a statement, but the debaters reporting that they're sticking to the information they got in writing. I think that's how Germany, America, etc. works. There's no mention of anything in this information. Thank you very much. Mr. Mišić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9752	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be brief. I've been listening so much and I've read this information and I can really thank the Council of Ministers for the information that was enough for this debate on the agenda. I just don't understand why the Council of Ministers asked for information in writing, and on the agenda, the agenda points were written a report. I do not think at all that this has been done on purpose, but since the information I support has been sought and is sufficient for me, when I do not support it, then I will ask for a change of the Council of Ministers, I will not now hold a lecture on how important this project is for Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose an immediate conclusion that reads: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina accepts the information of the Council of Ministers on the activities so far in the construction of Corridor V-c, and tasks the Council of Ministers to report each three months the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on further activities at Corridor V-c. I think, in this time period, it's enough that everything that we've discussed here, so who I don't know mentioned is that we need to form a concession commission, whether it can be formed, that the house needs to be taken separately, whether there should be a change of laws, etc. that it's enough this three-month period for us to get information so that this high home is in continuance on the activities of this big project. I thank you so much and give this conclusion to make it known.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9753	I would like to thank my colleague Mišić, Miro Jović, Ivo Miro Jovići, for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9754	I thank Mr. President, and I would like to make a very brief statement of my views. First of all, I want to support this report that's ahead of us, and I think the Ministry and the ministar did the right thing, because at the last meeting, my speech for this speaker was very ugly. That something was done under the table, that something was hidden from the public, that it was connected to the criminogenic cynics, etc. Now a lot of things are clearer to me, and in this sense I thank you so well this is what my predecessor said, a good suggestion to conclude that we have more information like this, so if this is in accordance with our mutual arrangements for three months, I think it's a solid time. The question I asked myself here when I wanted to come out was good morning, and it's evening already. Let's wipe our eyes and wake up. Last time we discussed this topic, Andrić proposed amendments and amendments to the concession law where the competition should be called, so a firm and strong and strong argument that it is simply European, that it is transparent, that it is logical, etc., here comes the wall of silence. And now the same people who voted against it insistently and with great ferocity defend what we asked for at the last meeting. The question of all questions is here, Bosmal or a hundred Bosmal from the world, someone had already said before me and I'm going to paraphrase behind this pay phone, no one in the empty wallet is going to throw in the mud, someone has to stand firm with their own and someone has to give guarantees. Bosmal's in, but with one condition I believe you've already read, which is a concession contract. If he has a concession contract, we'll work on it, if he doesn't, it's a question of all the questions. And for all other possible offers in the world. And without that, surely, there is no realisation. It's also been mentioned several times here by Corridor V-c. Who named him? Since when is it here between us? Do we know that, I would like at the next meeting of Mr. Minister to write who, where, when he adopted whose proposal to be called Corridor V-c through Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd love to, I say I hear that if I know who it is, I know it, but I like to do what I know to piss on me. 104 I would also like to say that it is very important for me to say at the last meeting, or on the same subject, all those who are for some new regulation, all those who are for some conditional inventions, or the banal divorces are enemies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, employment of the workforce, etc. I thought these people had a solid, solid one point of view so today I'm going to see a bunch of money here, at least from someone, maybe one billion or in paper or in bills and already the job is moving, I was afraid to suggest something stronger, something more argumentative that would look like Europe. And that's why we stayed modest with that proposal that there's no concession without an international competition. And I'm glad it hasn't been a long time here is a lot of such advocates, so I don't think it's gonna last another month, I'm gonna be the next one to offer amendments and additions to the concession law to be called a public tender for and that international concession tender. I also want to say a very important question, and here it was noted, that's if we let someone do a feasibility study. If we let someone do the project documentation, if someone pays for the exclusive land. It's a question of all the questions and then whose question is that? Last time we went over that, we just went over it. Here I very much support those who are considering it must be ours, it must remain within the framework of the institutions of the state, so what someone invests in this part of the project, must not be taken away, must remain ours. For these reasons, I hope that today we will support this proposal before me to accept this as a report, and to continue with this practice without just taking this into account today, go home, read this well, and then let the College evaluate whether to hold another debate on the same topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9755	I thank Mr. Jović, the word is Mr. Hadžić and then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9756	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I must first of all say that I am as an MP satisfied with the information I have received about this item of the agenda. And I would like to thank the Minister for one quality and reliable presentation of this issue, and first of all I would like to say that I fully support the proposal of MP Mišić, that this parliament should discuss or be informed about this issue three months. And as much as we want this problem to have no political dimension, I think we should ask our communications commission to communicate and monitor the activities in this one, permanently means Parliament three months, and the Commission is constantly asking for this, when it comes to building Corridor V-c. And I would also point out if we wish well to this country and the citizens that our conclusion of this Parliament is to speed up the activities of building the meaning, Corridor V-c. And not to keep a mentorship here for someone how they did something wrong, how to do it like this. 105 I support the Council of Ministers, and at least from the interested parties for the construction of Corridor V-c, which has been in circulation since 97 years, I think it is in circulation, that we have the interest to build this corridor which confirms that in this state, the Council of Ministers represents a responsible partner for the construction of this corridor. I don't think that was the case in the last term. I'd still like to say, I think since I get the impression that this point is more about going on the political side, that those who want it and who are holding on to the thousands of times the repeated lie goes on to the truth, a thousand times said something that's wrong, and in fact it's okay, but it wants to be said that it's wrong, it wants to make a mill on its own side, and it's actually doing a lot of damage to this country, to these citizens, and above all, to this Parliament. That is why, with the support of this conclusion, Mr Mišić would mean that Parliament is informed three months ago, that it is said that the competent Commission for Communications is constantly involved with the Council of Ministers and with the aim of building this corridor as quickly as possible. There is no need to stress to the responsible people of the Council of Ministers that this should be in accordance with the law, transparently, etc. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9757	Thank you, Mr. Belkić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9758	My colleagues and colleagues, the Members of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina have already come out and talked about this information, and here is where we decided to propose a kind of conclusion that we think would be correct. We are proposing this conclusion from the fact that this is a project of public interest. That responsibility for its realization has been given to the Council of Ministers but also to this Parliament. We believe that today's debate was in the direction of finding the best solutions. So we did not experience today's debate as a dialogue or a replica of parties with different interests. So we have experienced today's debate as a way to get to the goal as best and as easy as possible. The concrete part of our proposal is next. To take into account all reasoned discussions from today's debate, using, of course, a stenogram from today's session, and prepare answers to some raised dilemmas and questions, because you will not be able to comment today on everything that is said here today. So in one peace to study and see everything that's been presented here as a dilemma or a question or a suggestion. For the next session of Parliament, practically your information will be the draft order of the next steps, which would be the subject of the debate at this session, and the conclusions of that session. So, future sessions where you would suggest the order of the proposal would be binding on all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So both for the Council of Ministers and for the Assembly, and this would also lead Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament to take part in the responsibility of this project. 106 Here was the intention of our participation in this first discussion and now in the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9759	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Mr. Bešlagić Selim answered the word, and after that Mr. Džaferović no more reported, and Mr. Andrić then Džaferović. I'm asking you to bring in if this debate is possible. We stayed long.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9760	I'm sorry I don't have a tape we discussed and discussed for the first time. We said we were for Corridor V-c and it was just a wish not to take the wrong step and not to lose the pace. We've received information today about contracts, documents carried out by the Council of Ministers, and thank you for that information. Today's debate just as Belkić said and almost all the debaters are without politics aims to direct the Council of Ministers to take advantage of the opportunity and not to take any further steps, I would now say steps in this sense in basketball, not to waste time. Another thing I asked last time. If someone's proposal doesn't pass, don't accuse us of being opponents. We said for the first time that the concession of this type must be announced by competition. The international tender, but I'm not because we have to go to an international tender, so we voted against everything being announced by an international tender. So do you have so much confidence in this government, I am here despite the fact that a lot of things I don't think will sometimes be necessary to enter quickly and efficiently and to give concession but this Parliament decides. And that's why I'd ask you, let's just make this proposal, which was now gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, to analyse all these moves, so that we don't make any further moves, I'd say the mistakes that will lead us to it. I'm afraid the information from Bosmal on the radio is calling to dock 330 kilometers, calling people, talking about that we had the wrong information. They came in for what they just saw with this information. They came in with you giving them a concession. They're in on it. Their call to the citizens to join them tells them about it. But let's just say that it was a mistake, it needs to be corrected so that we don't have any confidence in others. And I just want to tell you one more thing. It is not true that there is no interest in concessioned any direction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But in order to concentrate that direction, he must have a feasibility study and have that element that says how long the concession will last. When you have that, you can find an investor without a problem. The problem is, we don't have those elements to make the right move. And so please let us try on these discussions that were to really make a guide on how to go with the right steps further, so that we can get to the construction of this corridor as soon as possible. Thank you very much. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9761	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Andrić, and that would bring the list of debaters to an end. A colleague, Džaferović, gave up the discussion. It'll turn on if we need to look for solutions, but I think we'll all find it together. I thank him, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow advocates, I was also at an extended college this morning against going to this information, since it may have come at the same time that we were sitting at the College, then it was forwarded to us. We haven't had a chance to read it thoroughly, in detail, but thanks to these previous points and a little longer debates, so here in the representative bench I managed to fly a little bit over this information that I see as a big shift forward from what was at the beginning, that is, how it approached this problem, that is, this business at the very beginning. There are clear movements, and I really welcome these shifts, and here I wanted perhaps with this debate at the end that I would suggest and concrete conclusions and help perhaps to go even faster and more concretely in that direction so that we do not waste time that we have certainly lost so much and much so far. I have proposed the last time to amend and supplement laws that would define certain things, whatever laws that are not normal. I'm standing there now that we should do it, but since we're not, I'm not going back to it right now. However, here mine could be a specific question to the minister. We had an initiative offer of Bosmal, based on Article 25. So we have a self-initiative offer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 25. The concession law. We spent two three months on Bosmal, now we will spend on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's already an offer for someone from Russia. I don't know when and who will tell us from now on we don't receive self-initiative offers anymore, because we have enough of them or will possibly say that these self-initiative offers don't meet the requirements of Article 25 of the law that is valid, which I really wanted to change just to remove these dilemmas. And I've tried very hard to find the law, and I'm going to read in which cases a self-initiative offer is submitted. In the event that the tenderer, or the relevant Ministry, submits to the Ministry a proposal for a concession law for which it has been called, no tender shall be opened. The Ministry assesses whether there is a public environment for that concession. I'm really glad the Ministry found out there was a public interest. So one big step has taken forward in the last few days I don't know, a week unlike the one we were in before when we talked, the last time we had a debate here. Point 2 shall, when assessing the proposal referred to in paragraph 1, take into account in particular that there is a project which is subject to the proposed concessions only if the design process of the methodologies or the concept of engineering to which 108 bidders have the exclusive right, which means that it is a project which can only be carried out by someone who has a patent on something exclusively. So without competition, and then the exposure of such offers to competition is really a waste of time, and if we think about it, then it makes sense that this item in Article 25, or in the case of a really big rush, or projects that are already in place by an infrared structure and which someone already has the right to do. Has the Ministry considered, when deciding and considering the offer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the only bidder has the exclusive right, the only one to this concession. Or he's the only one who can do it. What I wanted to help you with may be easier to get out of all these loops and not make life worse for ourselves, I suggest that this House draws a conclusion next, which obliges the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to immediately begin preparations under the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to call a public tender, a public international tender for the award of concessions for the construction of Corridor V-c. What I'm saying is, the public interest has already been declared,
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9763	Please, let's listen to the messenger.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9764	I'm begging you to listen to me. We have declared public interest, we have no commission yet, we have no way of economic justification. Let's hurry up with the commission, hurry up with the study, call a public tender. Then we will have all those who have come to us and who have so far come to us if they have any interest and all those who have never known that they can come to us in this way and we will have a chance to compare maybe ten offers, so of the ten offers, we will choose the highest quality. Another conclusion, in order not to make life worse for themselves, is that the Council of Ministers undertakes to immediately suspend further negotiations with bidders until a public international tender for the award of concessions. Of course, we hope that the bidders so far will report for the competition and that we will then be able to continue talking to them. I have written these two proposals of conclusions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9765	I thank my colleague Andrić. Mr. Potočnik picked up the phone. I'm asking you to bring in the debate, I'm guessing no one else will say anything about what we have, but to bring the agenda to an end. So please, for a while. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9766	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, present guests, I think I'll say something new after all. The Council of Ministers does not have a plan and a work programme for any area such as the road infrastructure. I suggest that a plan be drawn first that will be directed to internal integration within the country and integration outside the country, and then be approached based on the physibilities of the study by tenders. And that's why I suggest the next conclusion. To form a commission to define the country's necessary travel infrastructure and connect with the world, as one of the projects to get out of the crisis. Direct, co-ordination between Parliament, the Commission, ministarski Council of Ministers with each month's information and Parliament's decision on the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9767	I thank my fellow Potočnik. Mr. Sead Avdić answered and I no longer have any applications for the discussion, everyone discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9768	I am truly sorry for this intervention and the chairman has already finished the list of simple speakers. But I have to point out the fact that they wanted me to admit it or not, we're at the beginning of the Corridor V-c project. And in this context, let us be aware of those simple truths, which went through Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're at the beginning. In that context, I respect what the Ministry has given. Well done on this information. For the first time in such a way, the House is respected. We got the right information, what the Ministry did, what the Council of Ministers did, and we just don't have any particular grudges here. The Ministry, I want this Ministry on track in terms of preparation if it's so before the studies to prepare a simple tender and public ad to get a concession, and that's the most important thing. I want to make an argument, one conclusion that is necessary and necessary. Since we insist and should insist, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be the owner of human documentation. That is why I propose that, in the next budget, for the next year 2004, part of the Council of Ministers' funds for making this pre-investment study be foreseen. That's 60 million converting marks, we have some funds in the budget that have come. So I suggest that the Council of Ministers make an emergency allocation of funds and that it be our documentation. There's no one else here, no Bosmal, no one else. Our paperwork, and we're doing our paperwork and we can't sell it to anyone, we can't give it to the concession. Guys, that's what we have to do and we have to finance it. It's the only objective approach to this problem. That's one suggestion means the one I was. The public ad is no longer disputed. The tender is no longer disputed, so it no longer needs the law or anything else. So it's pretty clear. 110 I beg you I have no opportunity to in this, but Dr. Lagumdžija has given you one great analysis today. We can agree and disagree, but that analysis has objectively its own messages and its simple range. So I ask the Ministry to respect this discussion and simply try to maximise what Dr Lagumdžija has given today simply in one part of his exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9769	Thank you ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the debate on the point, please, Mr. Minister, just a moment to wait, so let me try to get to the end, so we have 19 conclusions. In order to solve this problem in the College, we've come to the conclusion that we seem to be on the trail, there's been an extensive good debate, so please, people, not to bring valuable judgments. We are grateful to all who participated correctly in this debate, and this is a sign that the Council of Ministers managed to provoke the debate in Parlamant. There were good discussions and good conclusions. We suggest that our transport and communications commission, based on everything that's been said and these conclusions 19 here, so in a stenogram, try to sublime all of this and simply turn around, go to the Resor ministry and then have another active address of the RES regarding Corridor V-c. So that's what we would suggest, I suggest it, we propose out of the College, and we actively come out of these 19 conclusions, and we're just going to go to the polls, and we're not going to solve anything. So, our committee of Parliament's transport and stenogram-based committee proposed all the conclusions here to try to come up with a common taste that will go towards the Minister's Resolution and the Council of Ministers and then, of course, that the ministry is manifest, that we are today not exposing the Minister to respond to what he probably has a lot to agree with, which he disagrees with. We'd be wasting our time, I'm guessing no one discussed it to disabling the ministers and the ministry. It wasn't a goal to anyone, and I'm glad we heard it, but to just go out in an active way if possible this way. And if not, then we're gonna have to vote on all the conclusions individually, and we're not gonna do a good job. Thank you very much, here's a colleague, Džaferović, who wants to suggest something. Yes, yes, but those conclusions would be verified by the Commission here at the House, so we would verify them after the Commission's position to forward them to the Ministry, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9770	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore discussed in the College how to get out of this situation, and I think that fellow Špirić actually transferred that essential thing from what we talked about. I appreciate that our conclusion today should be something more complete. First of all, none of the speakers who discussed this topic today disputed the information and information provided by the Council of Ministers. 111 Secondly, I appreciate that all of us here are very interested and we want to make our contribution in order for Bosnia and Herzegovina to finally get this Corridor V-c. Of course, some discussions could have been said in a much shorter time, but that was the way it was, and I think that Mr. Chairman of this conclusion that you suggested should add two things. In fact, the conclusion should have two points. The first view is that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives accepts the Council of Ministers' information. That would, therefore, be perfectly normal and perfectly fine, no one has challenged it. Please, and, of course, oblige the Council of Ministers to inform us at a certain time about the activities in the construction of Corridor V-c, the achievement of the level of activity in the construction of Corridor V-c. Secondly, this is what you were talking about, Mr. Chairman, today has really heard a lot of objections and suggestions, suggestions, criticism, I don't think at this point we're able to put all this together and put it all to rest in the conclusions of this home that we might be able to express ourselves about, and I think it's a good idea. Since we have a competent commission, the Commission for Transport and Communications, that our commission of these proposals therefore, the suggestions that were heard in today's debate, try to turn into some conclusions of Parliament, and not to deliver it directly to the Council of Ministers and conclusions, but to come up with a proposal for these conclusions here before this Parliament, then Parliament will declare that the Commission is not directly communicating with the Council of Ministers. Of course, Dom needs to communicate with the Council of Ministers. In so many ways, I am supplementing what you have spoken of, Mr Špirić, so the conclusion should be that information should be accepted, or, the Council of Ministers' report as it is called, and secondly, that it is in charge of the Commission that these proposals that you heard today in the debate form conclusions and offer them to this House for adoption, and then to the Council of Ministers. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9771	I thank my colleague Džaferović. The word was sought by Minister Dokić. Let's just try to guess the conclusion that lies. Therefore, Parliament is receiving information from the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resor of the Ministry of Knowledge and in charge of the Transport Commission. This information will get a lot in place once it is completed with the conclusions of the committee that Dome will adopt. It will also help the RES and the Council of Ministers, as well as this parliament, so I think it would be good to accept that conclusion. So, we've received information based on a debate, we're borrowing our commission to come up with conclusions that we're going to verify and forward here to the Ministry. But here's what we'll come forward after the address of Dr. Branko Dokić, please. I'm asking you to think a little bit more while we're listening to this talk about this conclusion that would reconcile all this together. Here you go. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9772	Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak again. At the very beginning, I must say, I'm very sorry that you discussed this today because obviously you only read the authority. The presentation of esteemed colleague Azra, said professionally to the orientation of my colleague, reminded me completely of the period when I was preparing college exams and when I first read the book, then I came to the conclusion that the author was making terrible or I would say catastrophic mistakes. At the second reading, I'd see that it wasn't such a big mistake, and when I read the third reading, I'd conclude that there were no mistakes at all. And that's why I'd ask you to really read if it's not excessively pretentious, I'm a guest here, you're hosts, but since there's a lot of words you'll allow the guest to explain and try to point out the least to the needlessness of such a big word. So, I'd like you to read the text. If my colleague Azra had read the text, she would not have mixed this conclusion at all and mixed it twice with the conclusion regarding the Croatian letter of offer. First he mixes it with the concession agreement, this has nothing to do with the concession agreement. The Croatian letter of intent offers a donation for the production of project documentation. Secondly, I beg you, I've said nicely what he offers among other things is a donation etc. Read it. Secondly, she replaces that there is no Hungary in that conclusion. So Hungary didn't make a letter of supply. Point 3 is in some way the answer to the Croatian Letter of Offers. There will be a complete letter drawn up on three pages, which other ministers need to shape, and this is just the conclusion about it. It has not been said so far, and the issue has been constantly raised so far has not been appointed a concession committee. I ask you, you don't have to do it now, but the next time you read it correctly, tell me what's been done so far, and that the concession commission should have considered and approved it. We didn't start making concessions agreements or skis. This is just an open initiative. So, and it really doesn't stand etc. Unfortunately, I couldn't answer right after everyone's presentation, so I couldn't concentrate my attention on everything, because I couldn't write it down. So there's absolutely nothing complicated about it. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have given you every document except for one mentioned by Dr. Lagumdžija, and it is indeed a failure. I'll comment on it. We've given you all the documents to look at, to analyze. Which makes him so highly suspected of hiding something. So is there a big project like this that can hide anything that he wants to hide? It was some kind of consortium of Russian banks. It's not a consortium. It's about a bank. Since that's what the information means, it doesn't matter. But the Council of Ministers did not take a stand on the matter. It's not that offer we call it an offer, I don't know what to call it or the subject of the Commission's debate on economics and economics. That's why she's not in this information. If she deserves it, you'll get some next chance and you'll get an assessment of what it is. Is that right or wrong? But anyway, it's not spreading fog to the public. If it were hidden from the public, then some of you here would attack us, huh, what is it that hides and isn't pictured to the public. 113 If indeed many who have spoken had not been able to read, I do not mind, I also suggested that Gligorić would indeed suggest that the debate be conducted next time, that this should be well learned. So, we don't mind studying, it's damaged us by this superficial analysis and the evaluation I have to say is really superficial. How else to interpret here is Mr. Moranjkić who says what I said here is one thing and as he says my boss tells the other. I didn't bring up my free interpretations here, but I haven't read to you, I'm not used to reading on occasions like this, but I almost know them by heart. I have given you the conclusions of the Council of Ministers, which the Council of Ministers unanimously accepted. So this isn't about any different attitudes or interpretations. Once again, I'm just interpreting the Council of Ministers' conclusions. I was thinking about answering my colleague Lagumdzija in the first place, with all due respect to my colleague Lagumdžija as a fellow professor, engineer, because many of the findings that have been made don't really stand. If I've interpreted some other findings and I've figured it out, and let me possibly be wrong, just like that fact, as if there wasn't enough time to study it, study it, so it's just the first impression, but I think behind its findings there are evil intentions. And just what he's been under three times, I've written down, dispersing the fog. I think many of his findings here are just spreading the fog in front of the public. I'll give you just a few things. This isn't the first time we've called for a gift from the World Bank. And to say once again the only document that isn't delivered here with a slip, the document that has arrived on this subject is this, this letter from the World Bank. You will receive a copy of that letter to the next congregation, it is on two pages. I will please read the World Bank's offer concerning this, please have needs please because it's said that this is a gift that we are not able to understand and not accept. But I'll tell you two sentences. The World Bank has indeed offered to fund the credit or credit we signed last February, in Washington, to increase security on Bosnia and Herzegovina's roads and to manage Bosnia and Herzegovina's roads and locations to produce project documentation for Corridor V-c. I want to remind you that these credit assets are already in circulation, that projects are already being realised, related to these funds. Who's the one who had the right to say and we're not gonna use it for that purpose, but here we go for this. So, and that's what you'll get, please for next time. Next, I'll list just a few more things. Well, here's an obvious analysis to the Council of Ministers for a letter from Croatia. So did the Council of Ministers write a letter to Croatia. You could have attacked us, disrespected our response to that. And what's wrong with our answer in this conclusion? I'm asking you to study it. We said we'd consider it comprehensively. It's the Ministry's duty to talk, see what it is. Here we have a clear analysis and another mention of the fog spreading to this people because of that letter. You have it and you can appreciate it however you want, but we could not influence the letter written by the Croatian Government and signed by Croatian Prime Minister Ivica Račan. The third public fog is 40 years of concession, which says it stands in our letter of answer. I'm gonna need 114 of you to find out where it says it. It is written in the letter of Bosmal, or Bosmal’s purpose, and look at what we wrote in response. This cannot be the subject of the debate now, because it will be determined on the basis of the Law on concessions and on the basis of feasibility studies which will show this, etc. When it comes to feasibility studies, this letter can be interpreted as doing so by Bosmal. If all these conditions were met, which of them were required of them. But let me tell you right now, that and then we said the feasibility study we'll be doing. Whether Bosmal will pay it or not is another thing, but Bosnia and Herzegovina will choose a consulting house, call it whatever you want to make a feasibility study and not just a feasibility study, but also define a course. On the other hand, even if it was not for you to read it in the Law on concessions decadently writes, a feasibility study of adoption, the Commission accepts concessions. So, if she's an unfavourable concessions commission, it's the one that's going to say we're not going to accept an unfavourable study. In any case, you can see for yourself that the Council of Ministers has made a decision and has already made an agas for the election to pre-qualify companies that will do complete documentation. And even if there's something standing there, let's say wrong, this circumstance that's been going on since yesterday should erase that and we should all have good intentions towards this project. What counterpart Avdić said, we are at the beginning of this project and we will step on whether it will be small steps or be huge steps depending on the circumstances, depending on whether we will have the money to build it. But of course it also depends on political logistics and political support throughout the country. Now on one thing, it's really confusing for me. Now on one of Bosmal's offers, it's great. But we're the ones who're gonna ruin it. And we know what it was like two months ago. Furthermore, it really takes someone who has serious and academic titles and calls to misinformed us here in a sense. He says Bosmal's looking for a guarantee, absolutely not true, I wrote it. The guarantee is sought in the letter of the bank of Bosmal, possibly one of the reasons why this process will not go the way it went. I'm begging you, it's nothing funny. I've listened very carefully. That's two different concepts. It's a letter to the banks Bosmal and Bosmala to us or to the bosmalu. The bank says she'll go under such conditions. Next, someone commented on what you see is the mention of concessions in the letter, not Bosmal, but the banks, when the concessions of the contract are concluded, and that's what the bank wrote. Well, that's why we expressed our reserve. No concessions are concluded. He didn't say Bosmal when we made the concession deal. The bank said when the concessions are concluded, then these funds will be available. It's a completely different approach, quite different concepts in the game. That's why, look, we're going into the process of making documentation that's going to serve someone right now not to mention tomorrow, possibly, to call a concession tender, etc. Now we all want to discuss it, we don't have conditions, we don't have anything to dissipate it on. But let's leave, here's nothing we haven't lost, and this process with Bosmal, he's got another month and a half of the time maybe to fulfill what's asked for in the letter. If it does not meet, it goes with another approach, and we do not want to reject anyone who is in one way or another ready to enter two and a half to three billion euros in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 115 And I'd like to be fooled if there wasn't going to be a race over it. We'll be overjoyed if we find even one, then it's a guarantee that we'll succeed in this project. The name Corridor V-c was given at the European Helsinki Conference on Corridors. So, etc. I think I've included answers to many questions, of course it's very difficult to answer the findings that don't stand for this or that reason. In any case, it is very clear to repeat what my colleague Avdić pointed out earlier. We are at the beginning of a very important process. We are now on the threshold of making the necessary documentation, which takes time, which is what the funds are needed for. These are good suggestions that are heard here to provide these funds, which encourages it. No directorship is going to do this on an entity or on a state level with these projects. It was also someone's grudge to me, Mrs. Azra. It will do some consulting houses specialized in this, institutes etc. That doesn't rule out what it was about. And let me tell you right now, there's been a task force to draft road laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd just say that when it comes to the Sarajevo detour, it's probably taking longer to discuss it. And for the Banja Luka highway, the Gradiška talks with IBERD began just over a year ago. Among other things, I started it, and I know it's true. It's entity projects. I'll tell you right now, but the project is for the state of Bona and Herzegovina to be a guarantee of the credit that entities will take for these parts of the Corridor highways around Sarajevo and Banja Luka Gradiška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9773	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm begging you now a little. We're closed, just a little bit please. In conclusion, I'm trying to bring this point to an end, so we don't get into replicating each other now. We've closed the debate. So please, whoever asks for the word will get, but please let's see how we get out actively. I'm sorry that Mr. ministar's discussion has now offered some at the replica, and if we start to retaliate now, we'll return, I'm only saying what my vision is, of course, you'll get a chance to speak. I thought that this conclusion that we have proposed from the College relaxes everything, puts us in a position that our commission sublimes everything and I agree that, I am running this session and I find it difficult to monitor the course of all discussions and I find it difficult to define something that would be at Parliament's height right now. And that is why our proposal was for the Commission to be able to take into account everything that has been said, and which it considers to be on the way to the successful realization of this important state project, to deliver to us that we adopt and forward to the Ministry that then only the Ministry is manifest. And that's why I begged the ministar no matter what words he was personally referred to, who might have asked him to answer the Bosnian Herzegovina public. So I would pray when we discuss more problems and less addressing each other personally, because that's where we're going to avoid replicas. I, therefore, am now asking you, for a false quote has been reported by Mr. Lagumdžija and Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, but to stand there 116, and I call on everyone to make sure that we do not open a series of replicas to simply conclude this point of the agenda successfully. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the guilty allegations of Dr. Lagumdžija so Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, and that concludes the debate, we are going to the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9774	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministar, what I was saying has everything in the stenogram and you'll be able to see. You're going to see the truth of some of these from here you might see in these other stenograms that were on the previous agenda point, I've been on the phone talking to other people about this so you can see that I'm consistent here. In all the stenograms and telephones and from the pay phone, I used to say the same thing. Yes, in all the stenograms of those to be received by the Reporting Commission. So here you have said about this speaker, that it is about the donation of Croatia. My colleague Jović, you allow me to say the same thing on your behalf, please I repeat and I said here it is written in a letter and in your information to the Council of Ministers and also in a letter, that it is about Croatia's willingness to finance and implement, provided it is subsequently an international tender. So financing the realisation under that condition doesn't mean it's a donation. Please, if you tell us that you have a donation of 9 million to go into it, it is a complete innovation for this Parliament and for the first time I hear, for this House of Parliament it is, from a parliamentary speaker it is. Secondly, you said that I was guilty, for 40 years it has been written in the letter of Bosmal and written 40 years in the letter of the Republic of Hevath, dated August of the month after you gave the answer to Bosmal. So both the Republic of Croatia and Bosmal prefer to make a 40-year donation. But I'm sad 40 years of concession. Thank you, fellow economist, is that it is true that Bosmal's offer is good, and that you will ruin it. I also want to tell you that you here have said that there are bad intentions for me. My kolega Džaferović, last time you accused me of knowing what I think and that you are against it, now you have a suitable partner who claims that what I'm saying is bad intentions. From this pay phone, people are persistently, here's another session accusing themselves of what they think, and that's not an excuse, it's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9775	I thank you, I beg you don't I'm begging you I shouldn't anyone, I beg you to be patient and listen to each other. And I'm asking you, colleague Džeferović, don't, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9776	Oh, I gotta talk, I mean this... man's name. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9777	There's no need for us to replicate that way. Mrs. Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović. We're closing the wrong allegation and we're bringing the end point. A little more respect for each other, we'll end it all successfully. Many warn us that the culture of dialogue must be nurtured, that's what we miss but we're taking big steps forward, believe me, here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9778	I thank the chairman, dear colleague Dokić, minister, deputy, I am very sorry that my discussion with one hope, after all, of the repertoire of the arguments has caused you a bit of increased emotion. So let me, as you started talking to a student who, when he first reads, thinks what he reads is wrong, so the second time he reads, he starts believing a little bit, the third time he reads believes. I'm telling you as a fellow professor, that I'd probably have one of those students from the third. Uh, let me talk a little emotional now. I simply can't understand that if this Parliament is already having a debate on one subject, with arguments and instructions from the Council of Ministers, and I am sorry that you are in the multitude of this one dust, the dust of the wrong steps, you especially as a resolute minister of apostrophysed, and in one way this, perhaps you should choose my one feeling perhaps and potentially sacrificed, as a potential culprit for actions in the whole of the wrong quality project, here's let me, as a member of Parliament, vote for any order of action that was listed here, in a crowd of some mistakes that have been made by various, which took part in all of this, be no one's cover, and that I was right, I will solely base myself on the papers that are before you. It is the Law on concessions and information, or a report from the Council of Ministers, although I fully agree that this has an extremely important fundamental difference. The concession law states, Article 5. The Commission for concessions set up, I will reduce the maximum, it is therefore established, by this law, the Commission for concessions as an independent regulator, which carries out its competence as a Commission for concessions and joint commissions and the exercise of functions, the Commission is committed to meeting public needs and economic development by including the private sector in the financing of design, construction, renovation, etc. The first question that I'm asking you after you've come forward for the second time, even though I didn't really intend to. I wish you hadn't come out, if you might have been a little more calm with the stenogram and the argument you might have given, prepared the answer to all of this. I'm now asking you with what authority you instead of an independent regulator are doing all these activities. Next, Article 17. 118 _________(?) Write down some shops. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Here, here's from Article 5. Let's cut a little short. Write down what actions have been done [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9781	My colleague, please, we have to, wrong quote for three minutes but here's no one to interrupt just to keep in mind. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9782	I have to work with my colleague Špirić here in this sub-contraction my personal position has been from the very beginning that Bosmal took the most risks in this business, which is not for one clearer situation to deliver his serious offer. But this one, your answer to such an offer, or a whole series of actions that followed especially after the bank's message or the bank's response to Bosmal, and the Bosmal Council of Ministers, I'll tell you that even though it looks layish but the message of the Bank to the Council of Ministers, give the concession to Bosmal, you'll get the money. Correct me if you don't. If you were wrong, in conclusion when I mentioned that Hungary is missing, you wrote in the opening part of the text next to BiH a great interest in construction was expressed by Hungary and Croatia. And in conclusion, point 3 of the Council of Ministers' conclusion, I'm not saying
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9783	Please listen to me, please. Please, I know that patience is at an end, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9784	He says that since the highway has strategic significance for both BiH and Croatia, then the text goes, there is also for Hungary because you are alone... there was a need for correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9785	I thank you, I beg you to conclude there are no replicas, so please, I think that both teachers and students have passed and that Parliament will pass, so we are simply going to this conclusion to reconcile these 19 conclusions. So, we have received an inseparation to the knowledge and the Transport Commission, and the links on the basis of the proposed conclusions will suggest a taste to Parliament. So, seeing the conclusions could go towards the Council of Ministers when they are verified by this parliament will, according to the Council of Ministers and the Honorable Minister and Council of Ministers, have a chance to speak then, of course, because this is not a project that has been completed and I agree that we are at the beginning of a serious job. Who's in favour of adopting this conclusion? Who's against it? The abstentions, they're gone. Thank you. I find that we unanimously accepted this conclusion, which means that the College is still able to sublime all of your conclusions into one. I would like to thank my colleague Minister, Dr Branko Dokić for his patience and for his participation in the work of the House of Representatives on this agenda point. 120 We move to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. The establishment of the work round of the Research Commission to determine the spending of donations received by Bosnia and Herzegovina As you know at the 19th session of the House has adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission to determine the spending of donations received by Bosnia and Herzegovina. He was then tasked with proposing that, with co-operation with the Sekretarijat, he submit a proposal for a description of the responsibility of the Commission to prepare a proposal for members of that commission. The extended College agreed that each Club of MPs should give one member to this committee, that Mr Gligorić should be a member of the Commission as a proposing part of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, today at the extended College, we discussed this, and we tasked the MPs' clubs to make a proposal and form a commission. So, all parties that have a club of MPs and that Mr Gligorić, as a proposing, is a member of this committee. Today we should verify to the Commission that this second part of the job, so methodology, content, method, time commissions themselves define and inform this home. So, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, Adem Borić was proposed. I ask the Party of Democratic Action to propose, Huskić, I apologize to Adem Huskić, I beg your pardon. On Hazim of the SDA, on behalf of the SDS Mišić Nenad, on behalf of the HDZ Ruža Sopta, on behalf of the joint SDP club Mr Križanović, on behalf of the Mladen Potočnik Club, on behalf of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, Dokor Živković Milorad and Mr, please nice and Mr Tihomir Gligorić. I'm not a club? Who's in the name of that mixed club? Altić Muhamed. So, Altić Muhamed gospodin Potočnik, Mr. Jozo Križanović, Mr. Hazim Felić, Mr. Adem Huskić, Mr. Milorad Živković, Mr. Mišić and Mrs. Ruža Sopta, on behalf of HDZ. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree with this composition of the commission, with the conclusion that the commission itself proposes modulation, mode of operation? Who's against it? There's no one here. No abstentions. I thank you for having unanimously formed this commission that will work hard and come up with such good information regarding the donor funds. 121 I suggest we move to the 17th point of the agenda, that's Ad.17. The granting of consent for the cancellation of the Bilateral Agreement on Trade Economic Relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has submitted a proposal to cancel the Agreement on Trade Economic Relations and Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this is about the termination of the Agreement at the request of one of the parties, in this case the Government of the Republic of Hungary. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it that we agree to cancel the bilateral agreement on trade relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted, unanimously, this cancellation of the bilateral agreement. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad.18. Giving consent to ratification Here we have 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8.9 agreements, can we in one package vote to ratify all agreements. Is there anyone who would like to extract any agreement from this package? There isn't. So we agree to vote together all nine of these agreements. I'll read them first. Please do a stenogram. So, please for a stenogram to read, a little patience. We stayed long. Under a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Cooperation in Education and Science, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece on Cooperation in Culture, Education and Science, (c) Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Croatia on Scientific Cooperation, 122 d) Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cultural, Education and Sports Cooperation, (e) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments, (f) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Netherlands on International Road Transport, (g) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cooperation in the field of Education, Science and Culture, h) Basic Agreement between Bosnia and the Kingdom of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina between the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in favour of having these agreements ratified? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I understand that we have unanimously ratified these agreements. Moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to the 19th item of the agenda, that's Ad.19. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure are a request for a shortened procedure under Rule 104. We talked more about this issue in the context of the debate on the agenda proposal. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of adopting the Council of Ministers' proposal? Who's in? Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? Ladies and gentlemen, so we have 33 MPs present, 24 against 8, abstention 1. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Thank you. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Ladies and gentlemen, we have no entity majority. We've got to try the alignment, so we'll finally come forward. 123 No deal. I must inform you that we have no agreement. We're going to definitely vote. Or we'll leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9786	Who's against the Federation?
ParlaMint-BA_2003-10-13-0.u9787	Who's against the Federation? There isn't. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Nine, it looks like we got in the second round that this was included, that just a little bit please give me a score, we'll publish the result everything will be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Just a little bit, please. So no one was against the Federation. From Republika Srpska 9.. I konstatuj that we have adopted this procedure under Article 104, in accordance with the request of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patience. I'm finishing the 20th session. Youbiti be notified of the 21st session in due time. Thank you very much. The session ended at 7:40 p.m.
