ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-19-ps2013-004-04-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take up seats in the Chamber so that we can begin on the fourth day of the adjourned 4th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll wait a little longer for the sound level to reach lower intensity. I shall therefore begin on the fourth day of the adjourned 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a new card, respectively. spare. So far, I have an announcement that Mr Fiala is voting with card number 1 and Mr Rykala with card number 3. I tell you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mrs Kailová for health reasons, Mr Karamazov for personal reasons, Mr Pavera for personal reasons, Mr Pražák - foreign road, Mr Schwarzenberg - foreign road. I also have an apology from the Prime Minister, but I see him here, so the apology probably doesn't apply. Minister Balvín apologizes for work reasons, Minister Holcát apologises for the afternoon for work reasons, Minister Kohout for work reasons and Minister Štys also for the afternoon for work reasons. That's some apologies. I would first like to inform you that I have been approached by the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, with a request for a fixed inclusion of item number 41 of the approved agenda, which is the request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bronislav Schwarz, today, on Thursday 19. 12. As the first item in the morning. Also, the chairwoman of the mandate and immunity committee asks for a solid inclusion of paragraph 42, which is "A request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda" as the last item of the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I have an application from the president of the Jurečka Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-19-ps2013-004-04-000-999.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to include a point at the start of today's meeting - confirmation by the President of the Committee on European Affairs, who was elected Mr Ondřej Benešík. Thank you for complying with this request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-19-ps2013-004-04-000-999.u3	Yes, I'm going to vote on the application, and I assume that we would place it at the very first point, because that is a very short matter. I'll ask if anyone else is applying to the agenda. If not, all requests and proposals shall be put to the vote. First of all, I would like to vote on the new point, which is the confirmation of the committee chair. We must decide in two votes. First, we decide to place a new point. Initiating vote. Anyone who agrees to include a new point in the confirmation of the Chair of the Committee on European Affairs should raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 87. There's 164 registered for 162 against no one. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to this proposal. Who, then, is in favour of putting this point as the first point in today's negotiations? Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 88. Registered 167, for 165, no one opposed. I'm saying we've placed this point firmly. We would now vote on the proposal by the President of the mandate and immunity committee. First of all, we would firmly place paragraph 41, probably as the second point of today's negotiations. Initiating vote. Anyone who agrees to put paragraph 41 as the second point of today's negotiations will press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 89. Registered 170, 168, no one. This proposal was adopted. The last request is also a request from the Chair of the mandate and the Immune Committee for a solid inclusion of paragraph 42 as a last item in this meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 90. Registered is 172, for 168, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I'm sure we've dealt with all the issues. I'm just reminding you that it is possible to file applications for oral interviews within 11 hours at the latest. There'll be a draw at 11:30. That's all from my side at this stage.
