ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u1	29. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Principality of Andorra on the exchange of information in tax matters signed in Madrid on 11 June 2013 /German press 15/ - First reading You have the House press 15 in front of you. I žádat that this proposal be presented to the Chamber of Deputies by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Jan Fischer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u2	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify the Government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to express its agreement to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Principality of Andorra on the exchange of information on tax matters. The agreement was signed on 11 June this year in Madrid. It was signed for the Czech Republic by the Ambassador of the Czech Republic, Mr Karel Beran, for the Government of the Principality of Andorra by her Ambassador Mr Jaume Jaume Sansa. In this context, it is appropriate to recall that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the General Financial Directorate, is conducting a number of negotiations with the so-called tax havens, which have so far resulted in the negotiation of 13 final draft texts of agreements on the exchange of tax information, including this one, seven of which are already in force and announced in the Collection of International Treaties. The remaining agreements are currently at different stages of the legislative process. All of this in order to strengthen the system of international exchange of information in tax matters to cover also jurisdictions that do not fully comply with their tax regime with the principles of fair tax competition and which thus enable tax revenues to be reduced in other states of the international community, including the Czech Republic. The agreement submitted was negotiated in accordance with a model text approved by Government Order No 227 of 22 March 2010 and fully complies with OECD standards for international exchange of information in the tax field. The provisions of the Agreement shall be applicable to taxes introduced by the laws of the Contracting Parties. Information provided under this Agreement shall be subject to tax confidentiality and may cover only tax periods following the entry into force of the Agreement. By concluding the agreement, the Czech Republic will be able to request the competent authority of the Contracting State for information that is foreseeablely relevant to the findings, determination and payment of taxes, including investigation or prosecution of tax offences. The Contracting Parties shall also undertake to provide, upon request, information held by banks or other financial institutions. In addition to the possibility to measure the tax, these measures can also be expected to increase the tax discipline of domestic tax residents in the future. The negotiation of this agreement should not only have a favourable fiscal impact on the income of the Czech Republic, but at the same time, perhaps above all, contribute to increasing the prevention of financial crime. To date, the jurisdiction with the preferential tax regime refused to cooperate in the exchange of tax relevant information and had no international agreement with the Czech Republic binding them on such an exchange. The negotiation of this agreement on the exchange of information in the tax field can thus be considered the success of the Czech Republic in negotiating international tax agreements. I therefore recommend that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify this agreement. Madame Members, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Jan Fischer for submitting the proposal. I will now ask the President of the Foreign Committee, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, to propose to us the rapporteur for first reading. [[He's waiting for a while.]] Prime Minister? Or if Mr. President Holík will do so? I don't know what the division of work on the Foreign Committee is. [[Mr Schwarzenberg approaches the microphone.]] Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u4	I would ask that Mr Pavel Holík be rapporteur for the agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Principality of Andorra.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u5	Yes, thank you, Mr President. That's what we have to vote for. I am opening the vote on order number 57 and I am asking who is in favour of the rapporteur for the first reading being Mr Pavel Holík. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 57, from 159 in favour of 149, against no one. I therefore ask the designated rapporteur, Mr Pavel Holík, to take up his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u6	Thank you. My speech will be brief, Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues. A Government proposal has been tabled here to submit to the Parliament of the Czech Republic for approval of ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Principality of Andorra on the exchange of information in tax matters signed in Madrid on 11 June 2013. I recommend ordering this government proposal to discuss the Foreign Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-12-ps2013-004-02-002-029.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and stating that I have no application for it. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Counters aren't interested. We will decide in the vote the order number 58, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the foreign committee. Anyone against it? Thank you. Voting order number 58, from the present 162 for 154, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee and the time limit for discussion is under the law. Thank you, and I'm done with point 29. I will ask Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Fischer to continue, because we will discuss the point.
