ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-25-ps2013-001-01-003-003.u1	3. Information on the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and the election of its officials The list of members of the electoral committee according to their membership in the parliamentary clubs has been distributed to you on the bench, and I will now ask the elected chairman of the electoral committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to the members of this committee. I beg them, therefore, to rise at the reading of their name, and then the President of the Election Commission will inform us of the outcome of the Commission's first meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-25-ps2013-001-01-003-003.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government in resignation, honourable Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a wonderful Monday afternoon. Allow me to inform you about the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and the election of its officials. In accordance with points 2 and 3 of Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, on 21 November 2013, last week on Thursday, a group of Members delegated by Parliament's clubs on the basis of parity and formed an election committee under the direction of Mr Jiří Štětina from the proposals of the MPs. It was established in accordance with the principle of proportional representation of 15 members. Now I ask my esteemed colleagues and colleagues from the electoral committee to stand up after reading their name, so that the House knows who she is and will follow the elections throughout the parliamentary term. These are the following Members, members of the Election Commission. I will present them in alphabetical order: František Adámek - ČSSD, Mr Marek Benda - ODS, Stanislav Huml - SSD, Mrs Jaroslava Jermanová - YES 2011, Mr Jan Klán - KSČM), my name is Martin Kolovratník from YES 2011. Mr Martin Komárek, also YES 2011, Mr Petr Kořenek - ČSSD), Member Jiří Koubek - TOP 09 and Mayors, Member Petr Kudela - KDU-ČSL, Ivo Pojezný - KSČM, Adam Rykala - ČSSD, Member Jiří Skalický - TOP 09 and Mayors, Mr Jiří Štětina - Úsvit movement, and Mrs Helena Válková - YES 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, at its first meeting on 21 November 2013, the electoral commission was elected by Mr Martin Kolovratník, my person. Let me introduce myself to you in two sentences: I have been the director of the Czech Radio Pardubice for 12 years, so I say about myself that I am forged in public law and the same, equal access to everyone. I believe that it is this professional quality of mine that will take advantage of the election commission's work, and I believe that the commission under my direction will gain your trust. I would also like to inform you that the agenda item for the Election Commission meeting called Election of Vice-Presidents of the Election Commission has been interrupted so far. As far as the electoral commission verifiers are concerned, we have decided to choose seven verifiers, in such a way that they are always represented by one representative of all the parliamentary clubs that are here in the House for this parliamentary term. I will also ask the verifiers to stand up and introduce themselves once more. It is František Adámek for ČSSD, Mr Marek Benda - ODS, Jaroslava Jermanová - YES, Jiří Koubek - TOP 09, Petr Kudela - KDU-ČSL, Ivo Pojezný - KSČM, Jiří Štětina for Úsvit. Thank you. I've bothered you twice. On 21 November, the group of Members responsible for setting up the Election Commission unanimously approved the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should take note of the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for all elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies for the entire 7th parliamentary term. This is based on Article 47 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 1 (7) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 1 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution in which it takes note of the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, for the elections held at the House of Deputies and for the elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies throughout the 7th parliamentary term, in this composition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-25-ps2013-001-01-003-003.u3	I thank the President, Mr Martin Kolovratník, and I also announce that Mrs Jana Hnyková has a replacement card number 3. I will now open the debate, but before I open it, on the motion for a resolution tabled by the President, I must warn you that according to Paragraph 116 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of our Rules of Procedure The Chamber of Deputies without notice of this establishment of the Election Commission. [[14.50 hours]] Therefore, other members cannot be proposed in the debate. Before I launch the debate, I will read you the motion for a resolution, which we will then vote on after the debate is over. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the establishment of an electoral commission of the Chamber of Deputies, for elections held at the House of Deputies and for elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies in the seventh parliamentary term, as we were familiar with it." I am now opening the debate. Please, if you want to sign up for it, because we certainly don't all know each other yet to introduce yourselves before your performance. Is anyone reporting to the debate on the motion for a resolution, as you were familiar with it? No one's checking in. I am therefore ending the debate. We shall proceed to the first vote at this meeting. I beg you all to sign up with your cards, if you haven't done so yet. I think I've announced all the spare cards. If anyone else has a spare card, let me know. Initiating serial number one vote. - Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I will have to declare this vote misguided because the Minister has failed to sign up. We will wait for the time to run out, and we will repeat this vote. You have been informed of the motion for a resolution, and I will not read it again. Please sign up with the cards. Does anyone have a problem with the voting device? Minister, are you all right? Initiating serial number two vote. I ask who is in favour of the resolution, as you were familiar with it. Who opposes this proposal? In the vote order number 2 was 199, for 197, against no one. Is Mr Komárek reporting for a factual remark? No. I therefore note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. That was all we had to do under point 3, so I am done discussing point 3. We'll focus on the point.
