ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u1	18. Legal measures of the Senate on the amendment of tax laws in connection with the recodification of private law and the amendment of certain laws /German press 2/ I will ask - I see the Prime Minister here, so I assume that this press will be presented by the Prime Minister on behalf of the government. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce the Senate's legal measure on the amendment of tax laws in connection with the re-codification of private law and the amendment of certain laws. The aim of these standards is to adapt tax laws to the recodification of private law with effect from 1 January 2014. A few words on the course of the legislative process. Originally, this objective was to be achieved by a draft law on the amendment of tax laws in connection with the recodification of private law. However, the draft law was rejected by the Senate on 12 September 2013, which, in the absence of the Chamber of Deputies, meant the end of its legislative process. The Government has therefore submitted to the Senate a proposal for a legal measure before you today, a legal measure which, in principle, in the same content as the rejected bill, has dealt with this matter. The partial amendments made against the original version, as well as the amendments adopted in the Senate, in my view have not changed and have not disrupted the overall concept of the legal measure and its main objective remains to adapt tax laws to the recodification of private law previously approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and confirmed by the President of the Republic. As regards the very content of this legal measure, the recodification of private law caused changes in tax laws, which are now terminological and factual in nature, respectively. often the nature of the terminology and material at the same time. The need to carry out a consistent revision of terms instead of relying on a generally formulated transitional provision is based on the specific nature of tax legislation. The principle of doubt in favour of the tax entity is applied here. Changes in material nature can be divided into two groups: those directly induced by the recodification of private law, e.g. reactions to new institutes, such as the new concept of the matter, trust funds, etc., and to those which have been brought about indirectly by the recodification of private law, but which involve significant interference with existing institutes, e.g. a change in the concept of the transition of tax liability. The tax law, which is amended in connection with the recodification of private law, is the Act on inheritance tax, donation tax and property transfer tax, as it is abolished. The inheritance tax and the donation tax are incorporated into the Income Tax Act. The legal regulation of the property transfer tax is subject to the legal measure of the Senate number 340/2013 Coll., which will be the next point of our negotiations, this is about the real estate acquisition tax, which will be submitted for approval at the next point. In addition to the changes caused by the recodification of private law, further changes are in the legal measure approved by the Senate. The most important of them is the implementation of the first phase called. Single collection points, certain pro-export and pro-growth measures can also be mentioned, e.g. deduction in support of vocational training. Let me now briefly comment on the consequences that would have occurred if tax laws had not adapted to the recodification of private law, in other words, if the so-called law had not taken place at this time. the ratification or confirmation of these legal measures by you as the Chamber of Deputies. In this case, there would be a relatively large number of different gaps or shortcomings in tax laws, which could not be bridged only by interpretation. This would create a very wide scope for undesirable tax optimization and tax uncertainty. The result would be a significant negative impact on the collection of public budgets, perhaps up to tens of billions of crowns. In addition, there would be extensive legal uncertainty. There would also be some inequality between tax entities and, in certain cases, perhaps also an increase in their tax burden. In view of these facts and the exceptionalness of the situation, in particular the whole process which has been linked to the approval of this standard, I would like to ask you to approve the submitted legislative measure of the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and now, before I give the floor to the President of the Senate, I would like to ask you to understand the situation that has arisen here, because the background materials, as they have been submitted here, and together with the vote on the speech of President of the Senate, have been pawned by the press number 1, which I put aside in the belief that this is part of the President of the Senate's speech, so I mistakenly put this point before paragraph 17. If he's okay with it, we'd like to discuss point 18. I assume that point 19 is factually related to this, so we would also discuss point 19 and then go back to point 17. [[17.20 hours]] If you have any objection to this misstep I have made by pinning documents, then, of course, we can vote on it, we can interrupt this point and go back to point 17. But I think the quickest solution is that we're going in order 18-19-17. Is there any objection to this? If not, thank you for understanding and I'm sorry. Mr. President of the Senate of Štěch will appear, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating you on the mandate of trust from the citizens. I wish you that your work will be successful for the benefit of our country, and when your mandate is over, you can say: we have done a good job. When the last government ended and it was discussed that legal measures would need to be taken to allow for the completion of the recodification of private law, there were opinions that the government and the Senate would overuse the legal measures. I think that practice has shown that this was not the case and that this extraordinary institute, which is enshrined in the Constitution in Article 33, is being treated and treated with great care. The first two legal measures - the Prime Minister has already put before you - are measures that complete the recodification of private law. Although there is a large part of the Senate - a large part - of the senators and senators who have the Civil Code to take effect 1. 1. next year, very big reservations, so we all realized that at the stage of development, efficiency and application in practice, the procedure is already so far away that it would be irresponsible not to approve legal measures relating to the completion of the recodification of private law. Of course, you can argue that the first step to the application of the legal measure was that the Senate did not approve the press, including the press, concerning the regulation of tax laws in the first process, in the first period, i.e. When the press came from the Chamber of Deputies. But please consider that the Senate is a souvenir in this case. And we found at that time that there are very many suggestions in the press that do not belong to the recodification, virtually. are not directly related to it, and that there are proposals that would mean relatively large public budget losses, including the budgets of municipalities, as the Prime Minister said in the previous speech. Therefore, a legal measure was put forward, which, in its essence, can be said to be about 90 per cent, copied the original government proposal that we had previously rejected, but still there were changes, which mainly concerned the taxation of basic investment funds and also the issue of income tax exemptions for profit and dividend shareholders. Furthermore, the Senate stated that this adjustment should not include an acceleration of depreciation, which would cause a blackout according to the calculations of both ours and the Ministry of Finance, about 10 billion. crowns a year. For this reason, we have adopted legal measures in a modified form before the Government has proposed, but finally, when the Prime Minister is discussing the amendments prepared by the Senate, he has given his consent. So the main goal was to remove from the tax amendment issues that are not strictly necessary to recodify private law and which, on the other hand, will not deprive public budgets of tens of billions of crowns. Secondly, we were aware that legal measures had to be taken in order not to create a state of legal uncertainty with regard to the effectiveness of the new Civil Code. Therefore, the legal measure in the form at your disposal has been adopted and will depend on you if you decide to continue to apply as a proper law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u5	This was the President of the Senate Milan Štěch, who informed us about the Senate's position and the way in which the Senate discussed it. So I am opening up a debate in which I have five proper applications so far. I have here one priority right of the President of the ODS, so he will take precedence. Mr Stanjura, please and then in the order as is on the board, Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u6	Mr President, fellow Members, I wanted to be the first to speak for our club, and I want to address first in my speech the question which both the Prime Minister and the President of the Senate spoke about, the overuse. When you look at Article 33 of the Constitution, it clearly states that legal measures are designed to approve things that cannot be deferred. We have four legal measures on the board, and we can have a debate - and we want to lead it - on whether or not it has endured a delay. I think the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is out of the question. There, too, the last big amendment came into force on 1 April, did not enter into force on 1 January. And even though it's identical to what the previous government has prepared, I think the government and the Senate should have been more restrained here, and they should have left it for the standard legislative process. Point 17, which we were supposed to start with, will be the third. I don't see any problem with that. General health insurance, increased payment for state insured persons - is the same case. If you look at the justification that the government has sent to the Senate, it says that there are large income outages this year. That sum is 4.7 or 5 billion. it's really big, but when you compare it with the total amount of resources that are in health care per year, and now don't grab my word - it's estimated that it's roughly to simplify the calculation of 250 billion, so it's 2 percent of the annual turnover. And those of you who have ever managed a budget have had a business to say whether 2% is a thing that can't take a delay and can't take a standard legislative process. We believe it is. The last two legal measures, which, in our opinion, do not really tolerate a delay, are two laws that complete implementation or accompanying laws to the Civil Code. It is a matter that our government has been promoting, has been preparing for a long time, has led to a political struggle here in the Chamber of Deputies, a political struggle between the House and the Senate. I think many of us remember that, and I'm sure it would be a shame if the work hadn't been finished. On the other hand, it must be said that at the moment the Chamber of Deputies dissolved, the left-wing government with the left-wing Senate took advantage of the situation and prepared things from the two proposals, which will certainly be discussed when we discuss specifically. I heard the President of the Senate talking about tens of billions that would fall out in the previous speech. I don't think the number is justified, it's made up. And if I get an accurate analysis of where and how the state or public budgets would lose tens of billions, I would like to apologize to the President of the Senate. Otherwise, I think it's spreading the alarm truth. Nothing like that is true. I mean, not that the government proposed, but in the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies, one of the few measures agreed by tripartite, i.e. government, employers, trade unions - measures that could help restore economic growth. We're all talking about how prepared we are, regardless of the political party we represent here. The acceleration of depreciation was a matter agreed in tripartite. It was not controversial, it had general support. Yet the Senate dropped out of this bill - perhaps with the justification that public budgets would lose tens of billions. I think it is a useful thing for which our business public has been waiting and which could help accelerate investment both in the public sector and in particular in the private sector. So if the Senate wanted to be really restrained, it would take legal measures in the form in which it passed through the Chamber of Deputies. [[17.30 hours]] At that time, we proposed that the dissolution of the House be postponed until the legislative process was completed. The proposal was not accepted, while it would not endanger the announced and then the term of the elections. It wouldn't have happened. We could have held on. This is the first time that the Parliament of the Czech Republic is discussing legal measures. I think and I'll be glad if it's the last time. Because we had a unique situation here, where there was a government without trust that never had confidence, and the government remained out of control because there was no Chamber of Deputies, there was no place to interpel, there was no place to argue with the government, the opposition had no chance to exercise government control. So I really believe this will be the last time for a long time. I still think, because we are introducing some constitutional practice, that it should be said that at least two legal measures could wait for a standard legislative process, could have been effective in February or March. Speaking of health care, the same government did not propose that we talk in this accelerated time about the renewal of hospital charges, which ends in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision on 1 January next year and where the annual blackout is estimated at 2.1 billion. Crowns. All of a sudden, this went through a delay. Very similar political parties all of a sudden say that they will forgive fees in general, which I consider a legitimate political view that we can argue about whether we do or not. However, this will certainly bring about a reduction in public health insurance and the resources available to health establishments. So I think it's clear. And for the other two, we just want to make it clear that both the left-wing government and the left-wing Senate have taken advantage of the situation. And those who supported the government voted in confidence, so they have a responsibility to adjust the laws. And especially at this point, I don't think the adjustment has gone in a happy way. Thanks to the fact that we cannot submit any amendments, we will vote in favour of the two legal measures that complete the accompanying laws to the Civil Code. It is a pity that the appropriate paragraphs that could help the economy are gone, there is nothing we can do about it. Finally, we do not want to follow up on the practice of the previous opposition, which very often drove to the Constitutional Court in Brno in the event of political defeat. It's enough for us to present our opinion here, and we won't dispute whether it was constitutionally comfortable or uncomfortable, even though we think it wasn't constitutionally comfortable. [[conformal?]] And for the next Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and for the next Government: If by chance - and I say, we do not wish it - there is a situation where the Chamber of Deputies will be dissolved again and Article 33 of our Constitution can again be used, we recommend even more restraint than the government and Senate have shown in recent months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u7	I thank President Stanjur, and if there are no further requests for priority rights, I would like the first duly entered into discussion, which is Mr Jeroným Tejc. Mrs Helena Válková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on paragraph 18, but also on paragraph 19, i.e. on the laws relating to the Civil Code. And forgive me if I speak not only of these legal measures accompanying the Civil Code, but I will follow up on the debate on the Civil Code as such, which we have been debating here, nor would I say between the Left and the Right, but between those who were in favour of thinking more and thinking more about the launch of the new Civil Code, and those who were in favour of being launched at any price on 1 January 2014. I think that not only me but also a large part of the professional public, I would say, apart from the authors of this code from the professional public, it is convinced that the Civil Code is not prepared so well at the moment and its risk of launching is so great that it can endanger the legal status and relations of citizens of the Czech Republic in the future. Today, unfortunately, we are faced with a decision in this Chamber of Deputies, when, on the one hand, we who did not vote for the Civil Code, whether we were sitting in this Chamber of Deputies or not, and they come as new Members, will have to vote for the accompanying laws in the form of legal measures, because if we did not do so, chaos will occur from 1 January. And I certainly did not envy colleagues in the Senate who had to process these standards in a very short time in the form of legal measures so that this adjustment was prepared. Nor do I envy all of us who have a problem with the launch of the new Civil Code, that they will have to vote in favour of these legal measures even if they do not agree with a number of provisions and the content of these legal measures. What is a problem with the Civil Code is, in my view, not only discounting, that is, that a number of institutes that have worked and which have been problem-free are changing, and we will have to get used to it not only by us citizens but also by caselaw, but by the fact that accompanying laws have been prepared at the last minute. Here was a criticism from President Stanjura that the Senate was dealing with legal measures at the last moment and the content of the laws that were prepared as accompanying was also changed. It would not have happened if the legislative process had worked as it should, and if the government, then still right, had brought the civil code together with the accompanying laws, which unfortunately, in my opinion, did not only happen immediately after the proposals were delivered here, but it did not happen in a reasonably short period of time, and those laws were only here in the spring and summer of this year. And yet, if the House had not dissolved, they would have been approved at the last minute. And that, in my opinion, is a mistake that we should not make. And in this sense, I believe that if we ever adopt such an extensive amendment to the legislation, not only that the period of legislation - i.e. the period between validity and effectiveness - must be longer than a year and a half or two years, but above all, the regulations to accompany these things and which fundamentally change the legal order of the Czech Republic must be put forward in sufficient time. Since I do not have an ambition here to vote against the legal measures accompanying the Civil Code, because, as I said, we have no other chance, so I would like to propose a accompanying resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, in which it may not, but if not voted, the Chamber of Deputies has expressed an opinion on how it should be followed in the coming months, even on the basis of a debate conducted in the professional public. I therefore propose an accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to carry out an analysis of the new Civil Code on the basis of experience from practice and, on the basis of the results obtained, propose an amendment to the law eliminating its most serious problems, shortcomings and uncertainties, no later than the end of 2014. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to adopt rapidly changes in the field of organizational and legislative matters, in order to remove obstacles to the proper application of the Civil Code in practice." I understand that there may be a reservation that a message from the Chamber of Deputies should not be sent to voters: There is nothing yet to be done and you want to amend it. But I fear that, in the case of the Civil Code and the risks associated with it, this challenge is necessary. The Chamber of Deputies would thus give a clear signal to the future government of the Czech Republic that it is necessary to deal with the analysis of the Civil Code and to prepare it if it turns out that it does not work in certain institutes, it needs to be changed very quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u9	Thank you. Good evening, ma'ams and gentlemen. We will continue the open debate. According to the applications, Mrs Helena Válková is registered. I ask her to take the floor. A colleague, Jiří Dolejš, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u10	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, it is a great honour to speak here as a rookie, as someone for whom it is a surprise that he can speak on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, however, I am accompanied by a feeling of disappointment and sadness that I have to speak to legal measures which, not only in my opinion, but also in my colleagues' opinion in the political club of the ANO 2011 movement, are a bad report by the previous government, which has admitted that, to this extent, in such a way and in such a procedural way, this standard, or the legal measures presented to us now for approval or non-approval, should be adopted. In our view, the situation in which we were more or less manipulated forced us to get to know the content of the legal measures thoroughly. It wasn't easy for some. For example, point No. 18, the tax legislation euphemistically referred to as the re-codification of substantive civil law, i.e. the adoption of a new Civil Code, both to the extent and far beyond its content, which needs to be revised so as to correspond, for example, to the terminology of the new Civil Code, and, on the contrary, to exploit this option to include provisions which were not sufficiently discussed in the external commentary procedure into tax legislation, such as the amendment to the Income Tax Act. I've spent quite a lot of time preparing this performance. I have spoken with a number of experts because the area of tax law is not really my domain and I would not dare to speak here unless I came to the conclusion that these experts were deliberately ignored in the commentary procedure. It is, for example, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, which has repeatedly stressed and warned that changes not related to the recodification are also part of the amendment, that they are systemically wrong, that they will create consequences that will affect both ordinary citizens and companies and, in essence, may lead to the challenge of proper tax collection at all. I do not want to give these comments a qualified assessment now, because, as I have already stated, tax law is not my domain. However, this shows that the options that have not been used since these comments were already made in the spring of 2013, both in personal negotiations and in writing. I think that at the moment, when it is very often stressed that not adopting legal measures would lead to chaos, uncertainty, that we would not collect taxes in the billions of crowns in the tax period next year, this does not actually allow us to disapprove of such legal measures. At the same time, it also makes it impossible for us to attempt to postpone the effectiveness of the Civil Code. In this context, it should also be recalled that the Constitutional Court finds 55/10, which quite clearly defines the conditions of legislative emergency. I quote: "The Constitutional Order explicitly admits the possibility of discussing the Government's draft law in a short hearing only on the basis of Article 8 of the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or state of war. Therefore, if the constitutional order provides for such a possibility only in one case, it is clear that this is not generally possible in other situations. This is not a gap in the Constitution if the Constitutional Order knows the possibility of discussing the bill in a short hearing. The Constitutionalist has decided only to accept this possibility in extreme and extraordinary situations. While it can be admitted that, at the level of the law, such as the Rules of Procedure, there will be other cases where laws can be discussed in the short-term management of legislative emergency, but because it is an adjustment of praeter constitution and because the purpose of the constitutional legislation of the short-term negotiation is to protect the rights and principles governing the legislative process in a democratic rule of law, the use of the institute of legislative emergency is possible only if there is a broad consensus in Parliament or only if the nature of the situations in which the legislative emergency is applied corresponds to the seriousness of the situations envisaged in the constitutional order for the short-term discussion of the draft law. The condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is not only a threat of certain negative consequences, but, above all, the existence of an exceptional circumstance which has the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. An exceptional circumstance is considered by the prism of constitutional principles only to be such a circumstance which is clearly out of the ordinary course of political processes both internal and external, or may be a circumstance posed by natural disasters. It is she who justifies the need for an immediate response by the legislator and the associated limitations on constitutional principles relating to parliamentary procedure. The conclusion on the existence of this exceptional circumstance must therefore have a reasonable basis and must be based on the facts.' In other words, I do not believe that the conditions of the state of legislative emergency are met here, I do not believe that we have the opportunity to request a postponement in the form of an amendment to postpone the effectiveness of Act No. 89/2002 Coll., the Civil Code, for one year, as we discussed across the political parties, and so all we have to say is that we are in a situation where we are actually going to vote for the first time, and we are going to vote on what lesser evil we will choose. In this context, I would also like to follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Tejc, who presented here the motion for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, on which we agreed and formulated it together, and I would like to supplement it with a certain introductory proposal of the opening statement, namely that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic notes that the effectiveness of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., the Civil Code, and the related legislation on 1 January 2014 were established for an excessively short period of time, not corresponding to the scope or severity of legislative changes in the legal order of the Czech Republic. However, the postponement of the effectiveness of the Civil Code and the related regulations before the planned acquisition of their effectiveness does not allow - I refer here to the limits of legislative emergency - nor any extraordinary shortening of the legislative process. For the next one. Failure to approve the Senate's statutory measure on the amendment of tax laws in connection with the recodification of private law and amending certain acts and the Senate's legal measure on the acquisition of immovable property tax from 1 January 2014 would be highly likely to lead to legal chaos and risks in the area of proper tax collection, and, given the length of the legislative process, these standards cannot be re-submitted and discussed in a modified form. [[17.50 hours]] Finally, I would like to consider whether we will not accept a statement in the sense that we are aware that the Civil Code effective from 1 January 2014 with regard to not quite sufficient preparation for its application in practice, extensive discount compared to the existing legislation, and the lack of consistency with other legislation brings a number of risks, possible negative effects and can, apparently, lead to a reduction in the legal certainty of citizens and increase the unpredictability of judicial decisions in a certain period of several years to come. If I sum up my performance, it is really with a certain exaggeration as in that novel that you know well, most of you, sophiiný's choice, when on the one hand we use our mandate and vote for something we know that both in terms of content and in scope does not correspond to the title, I mean the legal measure relating to tax regulations or our conviction that we will somehow contribute to increasing legal certainty. On the other hand, we know that if we do not raise our hand, it is highly likely that there will be even greater damage, and therefore we probably have nothing left but to raise our hand in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u11	I thank Mrs Válková and Mrs Dolejš in front of Jiří Dolejš - I ask that Jiří Dolejš wait again, because a colleague Polčák has applied to the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u12	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I must say and follow up on what Professor Válková said. As undoubted as it was in her speech that she had significant constitutional constraints and I myself listened to him with interest, I must say that we were not familiar with the motion for this resolution before, and the idea that only this motion for a resolution would therefore sound like that is quite surprising for me. Of course, a proper legislative process means that the motion for a resolution is given and is constantly printed and standing before us. I understand that this ratification, the additional approval, is more complex, but I think it would be at least a bit collegial if the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs had gotten this motion for a resolution ahead of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u13	Thank you for keeping the time and a colleague Jiří Dolejš is enrolled in the debate. Please take the floor. A colleague of Mládek will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. The previous speaker said that he felt surprised, that everything was not going smoothly and that some accompanying or other resolutions were being tabled here. I think that we should not be surprised by this, because, especially at this point in the decision-making process, it is difficult and not that it is not, although I understand that the spiritual fathers of this presentation, namely, the original Member, feel so connected that they may have gotten a little scared that it might get complicated. But we didn't complicate it, it complicated the creators of this process, so don't be surprised that we're performing, we're criticizing, but we're wondering if there's any way we can save it, because there's something the Senate did, but maybe we could have done, and now we can do even more at this point. I would also touch Professor Válková's performance here, our colleague, who's been wandering around for some kind of statement. To me, it seems a little alibiistic to me now to become adamant that there are risks in our decision. Well, they are, but that's already valid for us, so if we approve the material, and the risks in one or the alternative just happen. I'm gonna try to suggest a slightly different solution, and before I get to it, I'm gonna ask you for a little patience, because after all, I have to get back to the beginnings. When we had the original House proposal here in the Chamber of Deputies, the KSČM faction voted against. It voted against for several reasons which had then gone away, but one of the main reasons is that we already said at the time that the amendment to the Civil Code should have been postponed, that it should have been approved to postpone its effectiveness. And it is not our fault that the House did not respond at the time, but I also have to say a little in relation to the government in demise, which is located in its parts behind my back, that we were waiting to see if they would seize this and whether they would come up with a theme that could, for example, be themselves in relation to the new House or the Senate could use and postpone the effectiveness of this legal standard. Unfortunately, it didn't. And of course there were reservations not only in relation to the civil code, but also in relation to the construction of tax changes, because it is true that the fat guy you had in your hand, the original press, was this thick and contained a lot of changes, so far not all of them, even a lot of them there, which were related, I would say, with a certain tax handyness of the then resort administrator, virtually. the Ministry of Finance, which was in the corridor of some thinking on fiscal and tax policy. [[shows]] If the Senate corrected the original House's background and threw some things out of it, of course, we can tell ourselves whether we like it or not, but to remove things that are not directly related to the Civil Code, and therefore as if it is close to that necessity. I will mention, above all, the abolition of the dividend exemption, which may be seen as a step in the direction of fiscal liberalism, but in any case, we will save some money for the fiscal. Similarly, tax exemptions for investment funds were dropped when we were convinced that we would create a second Luxembourg in Prague, that investment funds would withdraw from the world and enjoy a quasi-tax paradise here. Once again, this could bring about a budget blackout in certain calculations, although of course it would be nice if we became the second Switzerland and Luxembourg, but the probability is or was very low. So I see this reduction as positive. But then, of course, there are a number of other proposals that may not be discussed tonight, but rather tax policy has been corrected, and not that there is only what is called by the Code, the amendment of the Civil Code. And here, of course, are certain question marks. Let me just remind you at random that this amendment concerns, for example, road taxes, when we made Czech Television, Czech Radio, and I don't know who else, from the Czech Press Calendar, the public payer on this matter. So it's kind of an extra thing that's not due to a constitutional necessity. But it calmed me when I heard from the ODS Club that they were not considering a constitutional complaint about the real necessity of this Senate measure. What I have, for example, is that some support for economic growth should have been part of this amendment in the area of introducing even more rapid depreciation. Over there I see that a colleague Mládek is preparing, who would undoubtedly say that this acceleration would mean a tax write-off, but it would have to be adjusted differently because, in principle, the acceleration of depreciation is a pro-growth measure, but it must not be exaggerated. So if the depreciation categories had been set otherwise, it might have been possible. So there's a lot of these things, and it's kind of an additional argument why: Mr. Administrator, you didn't try much, you should have worked a little differently. But the key argument, and I'm going back to the beginning when I started talking, is that we really don't want the Civil Code to start from 1. 1. 2014. I add, for your information, because you are not all closely following the activities of the KSČM club, that we have drafted a proposal the day after the election, which is a very brief amendment, to postpone efficiency. [[18.00 hours]] Well, since we didn't have the head of the House until today, there was no one to pass it on, and that's how we got into the process, when it's very difficult to get, even in some need or time pressure, to make it through. The easiest way to avoid making life difficult for ourselves would now be to take this one out of the four measures - this is to make it clear that I will not act on the other three measures first, and secondly, that we are friendly - and therefore not accept it, which could be a problem, because we do not yet know how this would turn out with delaying the effectiveness of the civil code. So we would have liked it, because we would have created pressure, let's say, to delay efficiency. Then I should have a more subtle option for you here, interrupting the discussion of this point and in the accompanying resolution, calling on the government to be active on this matter, and until we discuss a quick brief amendment on delaying the effectiveness of the Civil Code, they left it on ice and then negotiated it on the basis of what happens. We'd meet there in time for New Year's Silvestr. I'm afraid the second reading of the state budget will still force us to work between the holidays, so why not put this decision-making problem somewhere? So, if I repeat the conclusions, because there is no distinction between a detailed and general debate, so for the newsstand, if I repeat it, the first solution is to interrupt and call on the government and the second solution, somewhat harder, is not to vote in favour, which gives me an update as to how the KSČM faction will behave at this point, and if it happens to work, so that we do not cause misfortune, give the accompanying resolution to put forward a motion for the government to postpone the effectiveness of the Civil Code. With the accompanying resolution proposed by my colleague Tejc, we do not have a problem when we are all aware of the risks and problems it will cause, so let us analyse, amend, but I am afraid this is not so cardinal as to calm the legal and civil public. That's all on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u15	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. Mr Jan Mládek will take the floor, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about the legal measure on tax laws. I think that we are the victims of some megalomania that created a meganorm that will be a disaster for our country not only in the next few years, but five to ten years at least before the caselaw settles and everything is clear. Unfortunately, we're in a situation right now that we're just minimizing the damage that's going to happen. However, it must be made clear here that it would have been far better if partial amendments had continued in this area, without megalomania, that there had to be one giant code. I would also like to thank the Senate for taking this legal measure because he had to respond to some things that were absolutely incredible. The previous government made changes in taxes on dividends and investment companies directly at the government meeting without the participation of the expert apparatus that was eliminated. As a result, there was zero taxation on dividends and investment companies. That's no way to build Luxembourg, that's how it's built a hole in public finances. So it had to be done. Unfortunately, it's all at the last minute with a hot needle and it would require a delay of at least a year, i.e. The legisvacancy can be extended, it can be documented on one very specific case. Yesterday, the first indications appeared that there are some unexpected consequences in this law, in a seemingly positive case, that the Civil Code assumes that ownership of property and land will be associated as far as possible. A little bit was forgotten about the tax impact in the debate. Now it looks like you're paying VAT on the land you're involved in if you buy an apartment. So in the past VAT was not paid on land, now 15 percent will be paid if it is a so-called social apartment, and 21 percent if it isn't. This will lead to an increase in the price of flats according to conservative estimates by about 1.5 to 2 percent, but in Prague it could also be 5%. Of course, there is an unexpected paradoxical result for the fiscal, and that is the expected yield of 1.2 to 1.4 billion. Crowns. A person must have mixed feelings about this because the right-wing government raised the tax burden without knowing it. This added a positive yield for the state budget of 1.2 to 1.4 billion. Crowns. A little scary about it is that it wasn't conscious that it just kind of happened without most legislators knowing that they were doing it. The negative is, of course, that the situation in construction is very difficult and higher housing prices will certainly not help the Czech economy at this difficult time. However, I am one of those who still think we need to approve, because otherwise there would be a very complicated situation here. I would like to reply to the President of the ODS. Of course, it is very difficult to quantify the impact, because if chaos arose, the courts will decide, and the courts will decide, that is what precedents are for, in case of doubt, always in favour of the taxpayer. So according to the very sober estimates of the Ministry of Finance, it's a risk of some 30 to 40 billion. Crowns, which, of course, is not a good risk. The Civil Code will therefore be a relatively expensive matter for all of us. It will lead to the uncertainty of legal relations, additional costs will be at least in units of billions of crowns per year for both companies and households and we are waiting for quick amendments, which is finally mentioned in the accompanying resolution. One of those novels should probably be about VAT on land that nobody really wanted and that got there, by the way. I would like to call on the Government, in spite of all the doubts described here by Professor Válková, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to seek ways not only to amend the Civil Code soon after its entry into force, but to find a way to make it legisvacant for at least a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u17	I thank Mr Jan Mládek. The words will be taken by Mr Miroslav Kalousek and prepared by colleague Pospíšil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Speaker of the House, the Senate, the governments, I think this is an extraordinary moment, because if the President were still present at this point, there was the entire first constitutional four. I don't remember that all the time I've been in the Chamber of Deputies. However, allow me to define myself in relation to Mr Dolejš's speech, which will best show that we are discussing two issues at the same time. The theme of the recodification of the Civil Code in the field of tax legislation so that the Civil Code can enter into force on 1. 1. 2014 and the subject of tax changes. Mr Dolejš is clearly satisfied with the changes that the Senate has made and had to respect the government in this legislative measure on tax changes, he is not satisfied with the fact that the Civil Code will be able to enter into force as a result of this. 1. 2014. I'm the exact opposite. I respect that, thanks to this legal measure, the Civil Code will be able to enter into force on the 1st. 1. 2014 and, therefore, I and TOP 09 advise that we will vote in favour of this legal measure, but of course we are not satisfied with the tax changes that the government had to do to pressure the Senate to make the Civil Code more effective. Let me stop by on a few aspects. [[18.10 hours]] To 1. 1. According to our legal order, 2015 should enter into force a large package of tax recodification, which is called tax changes related to a single collection point. So I'm going to go to 1. 1. 2015 is to enter into force as part of the legal order of the Czech Republic - a single collection point as a big system change and, in the meantime, if changes to this honourable legislature do not come into force, parametric changes to the whole series of taxes that are linked to it should also come into effect. I am saying this because if the emerging government coalition is having a debate today on the future of taxes both in the system and in the field of parameters, it must necessarily take note of not what we are paying today, but what is to be effective and what is now a valid part of the rule of law on 1. 1. 2015. This means 19% of the rate for both legal and natural persons, a uniform rate of 6.5 percent of the public insurance policy, both health and social. This is a valid part of the rule of law today. And if we amend anything, we will either keep the taxes in force today, but not effective, but in a valid form today, or we will increase them. Of course, that will depend on the will of the government coalition. I'd just like to point out here that we should be careful when we say we're not going to raise taxes. From what we hear so far, you seem to want to increase taxes from today's applicable tax legislation, which is to enter into force on 1. 1. 2015. But it's your will, of course, only then you have to admit that you're increasing them. Of course, there were small amounts of VAT on land belonging to the apartments, because according to the new Civil Code, construction is already inseparably part of the land, and on the other hand there were considerable tax breaks in tens of billions. This means, overall, the right-wing government, or the centre-right, or the conservative government, has, overall, reduced the tax quota, only slightly restructured it. If you throw out the tax cuts on all the direct contributions planned there, and you leave the only one, the depéháchka at the flats that Mr Mládek was talking about, well logically yes, there will be an increase of one to two billion, because in the meantime you have cut the twenty on the side of the reduction. So I beg you very much, who are discussing today the future of tax legislation, so that you realize what really is a valid part of the rule of law and what will either come into effect on 1. 1. 2015, or he won't come, because in the meantime, you just need to raise those taxes with the amendment. That is the first important point I wanted to make. The second important point concerns the two fundamental reasons why the Senate rejected this recodification amendment. It was simply created that when the government coalition in the spring - perhaps there is no secret, I confess that in the spring I belonged to a minority who still insisted that the effectiveness of the Civil Code should be postponed for a year. Yes, I was convinced, and I respected that I was a minority. So if my opinion was minority, then I must respect that, at some point in the summer, there was any possibility of considering whether or not to discuss it further. It just broke in the summer, and now there's nothing left but for the Civil Code to come into effect to 1. 1. 2014. Then there was nothing left but that huge tax legislation mattress tied to the systemic change in the single collection point to take out everything that is necessary to recodify the Civil Code so that it is effective to 1. 1. 2014, and we added a few other things that we thought were needed and useful due to the shallow but long recession of the Czech economy. The first one was the accelerated depreciation. This is the only thing that will not enter, which is not part of the legal system in force, because it has been delivered as an amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. That means you won't find it in the applicable legislation approved in 2011. You'll find everything else there. You will not find accelerated depreciation there, they were actually delivered as an update in reading this recodification amendment, because from the experience of the 2008 crisis, we know that out of all these chaotic and crazy attempts and often inefficient attempts by fiscal impulses, the only one of all that worked was accelerated depreciation. If you take an analysis of the effectiveness of pro-growth fiscal measures from the Polish crisis 2008, you will find that the only thing that had a real effect on GDP and employment was accelerated depreciation. Therefore, in the situation in which we were in, we considered it necessary and necessary to propose this measure as the only one. Perhaps it should be noted that it was then approved across the political spectrum that not only the government coalition voted for them, but also the leftist opposition voted for them, because she also knew the impact analyses of this measure. The Senate, of course, had a different view. The second measure, which was criticised and which was the reason that the amendment was rejected by the Senate and enforced this legal measure, was the removal of the withholding tax on dividends of natural persons. Mr. President, I believe, even called it Kalouskův's tunnel, which was prevented at the last minute. Ladies and gentlemen, all European countries are a little bit troubled by the fact that their tax residents are going to tax havens where their taxes are paid better and happier than in their own country. If you analyze the causes of these departures in different countries, they are different in different countries. For example, in France, the main reason for this is the statistically inheritance tax, which is hugely large there. If you look at the reasons in our country, you will find that apart from an unstable tax system - yes, that is often the reason given - is that the Czech Republic as one of the few countries this income is the only direct tax payment twice, because dividends are paid by the company from taxable profit, not tax-free, that is, it has taxed them with a legal person, and after it has paid them, it still applies a tax to a natural person, which is nonsense, a systemic injustice that applies in few countries. So anyone who gets it and is worth it, runs off to a country where this isn't done and international taxation agreements don't allow us to apply it. There are two ways. The one I always liked the most - to tax it on individuals, but not to tax it on a legal person, it means to pay it off from a tax-free profit, or the path that ultimately triumphed politically and which was proposed - to tax it on a legal person, but to forgive the withholding tax on a person's physical one. Arbitrary doesn't matter. I'd still prefer the original one - keep the withholding tax on the physical one, but not tax it on the legal one. Arbitrary doesn't matter, but as long as we tax it twice, we provide a lot of reasons why anyone who can count will start wondering if they should go to tax havens. [[18.20 hours]] I've read the programs of many political parties. Many of them talk about tax havens. Most of all, I was approached by the program of the key movement as a political party that failed. I'm sorry. If she succeeded, I would like to see her fulfill her programme priority: we will ban tax havens. I can't. So let's try to motivate our tax residents not to run into them. This is one of the main reasons. I'm saying this because it's a valid part of the rule of law that's left it to 1. 1. 2015. We will be discussing tax legislation in this House in the coming months. Now all we have to do is encourage this legal scalding so that the civil code can come into effect to 1. 1. 2014. And that some really thoughtful and analyzed proposals that the Senate has thrown under the table should not fit in, at least in our minds and in our discussion, that we could return to them and that perhaps common sense could prevail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u19	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr. Jiří Pospíšil reporting and a colleague Jan Chvojka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also briefly engage in the debate on this proposal, the legal measure, and also the Civil Code, because if you look at the debate and especially if you listen carefully to it, two things are a little confused here. On the one hand, we are debating the legal measure, which we are supposed to approve today, and the quality of which we should be having a debate, and on the other hand, we are debating the Civil Code itself, which is somewhat confused with this legal measure, and the terms of, say, legislative chaos, the rates of adoption that I believe are related to the Civil Code. I originally did not want to come forward, but since the Civil Code has been laid down here several times and mentioned several times, especially its opponents, it is fair for other arguments to be made here which affect this law and for the public to be able to judge the matter. We talked very much about the Civil Code in this plenary; indeed, the first version was submitted in the pre-last term. We had a debate with a colleague, Tejc, who has an expert opinion on this. We have had a debate in the Constitutional Legal Committee, and it has to be said, and I stress here that more than ten years have been working on the Civil Code as such, including adoption. So much the myth of chaos and quick adoption of the Civil Code. There has been no other law in this country for so long, no other law has in principle been discussed twice on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. The second myth that I want to refute here is the myth that it is better to follow the course of gradual change. Of course, it is possible to have such an opinion, but if you look at other countries that, like us in 1989, removed the Communist regime and had a Communist right, then most of these countries, we will start in Hungary through Russia through the Baltic countries, Romania etc., a brand new civil code has already been adopted. And countries that still do not have it, like Slovakia and Poland, are trying to approve a completely new legislation. Therefore, I do not know the country, and I say this as a person who is dealing with this problem, I do not know a post-communist country which would voluntarily go the way of a mere amendment without wanting to adopt new legislation in any future. It is a mistake, but that is a mistake that no one can blame, that this new legislation should have been adopted ten years ago. If we had adopted it ten years ago, the transformation costs of a completely new civil law would have been completely different than when the new Civil Code was to enter into force 23 years after the change in social conditions, when we have a 1964 law, although many times amended, partly adapted to standard European conditions, but still unsatisfactory and incomparable with what civil law might look like in Germany, Austria or other standard states. Unfortunately, we are at a halfway point, halfway from the 1964 law, but by far, ladies and gentlemen, we are not close to what the European standard of civil law looks like. And so say those who oppose the new codification and who might say, "Let's move on, along the way of other novels." Professor Válková mentioned here in her motion for a resolution that this was an excessive short period of time from the point of view of legisvakance. I'm willing to admit that to those accompanying laws. It is indeed a mistake because of the political situation in this country that we are adopting accompanying laws in the form of legal measures at the moment. But ladies and gentlemen, the legisvakance itself has been a European standard for almost two years in the Civil Code. That's what I'm saying here. So if you want to vote on the resolution that the legisvakance of the Civil Code has been set for an excessively short period of time, I am paraphrasing at this point the proposal by Professor Válková, then please see what legisvakance other European states have in their civil code. Most European countries have had a period of less than two years. Hungary, for example, six months. I am not setting this as an example, I am not setting it as a model, but please, if we want to state this, it would be good to at least perceive the comparison in other countries. Unfortunately, thanks to the fall of the government and the complicating of the legislative process, accompanying legislation with the final law at this time lies on the bench, but the Civil Code itself has been known to the public for almost two years and the professional and lay public has been familiar with the Civil Code for almost two years or has had the opportunity to get acquainted. To determine the date of the first January of next year. It is also due to this, and it must also be said that we have unfortunately failed - apart from certain exceptions of the type of Mr Křeček, a Member for Social Democracy - to find agreement on this law with the opposition. I think it's a big mistake. As Minister of Justice, I have done my utmost to ensure that the Civil Code has the support of both the right and the left. After all, it must be said here that the substantive intention of the law, which is being so criticized by the Social Democrats today, has been approved by the government of Miloš Zeman. Miloš Zeman's government has also identified the expert team that prepared the law, and this team has been working on it for ten years, headed by Professor Eliáš. So it's not a right or a right. It is a law prepared by experts, not politicians. Unfortunately, there was no consensus and there was a threat that the law would be abolished after the elections, and that is why there was a consideration to give effect to the first January of next year, so that the law could still take effect in that previously proper parliamentary term, and so that the previous government would have full responsibility for it, I mean the previous political government, which was supposed to theoretically rule in the proper May elections. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and therefore we are in a situation where such a political crisis, which is only now somehow eliminated by the emergence of a political government, is somehow interfering with such a key codification. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, one thing. I watch very closely how citizens, companies, professionals prepare for a new civil code. Don't live in a myth, and don't just succumb to those who address you today, go around and tell you to put down the civil code. The entire professional public, law schools, firms, banks, citizens are preparing for a new civil code. There are dozens, maybe hundreds of training sessions in this country. The Justice Academy, perhaps better to say for example the Minister of Justice, has already implemented dozens of trainings for judges and judges are being educated in individual areas. The first parts of the comments on this new law have already come out. And I personally believe that even if it were possible, as if it were not possible, and we would now postpone efficiency, one month before the very end, then I believe that we would harm those who hoped for legal certainty, wait for January 1st and prepare ourselves and help those who, so to speak, have given up and let it go. But those who prepared and invested money in training, in comments, in various educational aids, these citizens would be damaged by our decision. And I think that the legislature is primarily intended to defend the interests of those citizens who comply with the law and prepare for the effectiveness of the new law. So please take a look at the Justice Academy website, there you will see clear evidence of how the professional public prepares for the new Civil Code. [[18.30 hours]] There was a term here about chaos, discount, etc. History will judge us. I am convinced, and from experience in countries where they have radically introduced new civil law, see Hungary, and I have studied the Hungarian example that the discounting that we are talking about here will not be so fatal and the chaos that we are talking about will not occur. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and please take a look at the accompanying provisions, respectively. on the temporal clause of the Civil Code that the new regulation of the Civil Code will actually enter into practice gradually. This is not a modification of the type that on 1 January traffic registers are running and chaos is happening. The courts will continue to judge old cases under the old Civil Law. Gradually new contested cases during the year will be dealt with according to the new law. The judges will be able to consult each other on these matters according to the type of case they're going to lose. Of course, the fact that they're going to have increased demands on them. But on January 1st, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no chaos in the courts, but gradually the new cases that will come will be tried under the new law, and the judges will be able to get acquainted with it. Hand on the heart, ladies and gentlemen. I appreciate the judge's choir, I appreciate lawyers, but who of the lawyers will study and teach 3,000 paragraphs in advance? I mean, most of the interns are working and studying the law when they're dealing with a specific case. No one ever learns 3,000 paragraphs in advance. That contradicts common sense. And hand to heart: How long have students at law schools been preparing for civil law? How long has civil law been learning? I asked this question a month ago at the Faculty of Law in Prague when I lectured on the Civil Code. I asked the students how long they were preparing. Most of them will tell you one to two months. I do not want to set an example, but the deadline for the preparation of the new Civil Code was almost two years for citizens. So what's the reasonable deadline? I would ask the speaker, Professor Válková, through Mr President, when she speaks of an excessive short period of time. It's been ten years, 15 years? Do we want to continue to prolong the state of an intervacuum, where the amended law of 1964 applies thirty times, or is it well beyond the shadow, to go into new legislation, and in practice to remove problems that may arise? The fact that the law isn't perfect is obvious. No human work, which has 3,000 paragraphs, can be perfect because lawyers have a different legal view of certain things. Part of the lawyers say, "Save the pre-emptive right to co-owner of the property," the other half says, "Cancel it." And what about Europe? Half the countries have it, half the countries don't have it. So what is the right regulation? This can be a permanent debate. I am very pleased that today, despite criticism, we are in my opinion leaning towards a solution to common sense: to implement the legislation and then to do everything possible to minimise the consequences. And I am convinced and based on the empire of other post-communist states that the long-term positive effect of this legislation will be shown. There is no country in the post-communist bloc that, in an objective assessment with a distance of several years, would have found that the launch of new civil law legislation was a fatal error. Let me make another comment, very brief, on the resolution proposed by Mr Tejc. I think that the next government and the Minister of Justice will have to monitor new civil law very closely and respond to certain problems that may prove to be there. Of course. And I assume that Parliament will respond quickly. I just don't know if it is necessary to adopt a resolution, because I consider it an obvious duty of the Ministry of Justice to monitor such a key code in practice. And among other things, I think that the date that was mentioned in the resolution, but it was not dealt, so I paraphrase it, 2014 is a very short time, because certain problems and certain evaluations, if I have to be a little objective, will be possible only after a few years, not after a year of effectiveness. Many of these problems will appear, for example, within a period of three or five years, when certain matters are decided when the courts can respond to them. So I do not prevent this resolution from being adopted. I will abstain from this resolution myself because it seems automatic to me that the government will respond to such new legislation and, above all, to me, the time limit which is stated in the law is too short or in the motion for a resolution. I think the deadline should be much longer. In the case of the motion for a resolution made here by Professor Válková, I say that I cannot support it because it is very vague, general and political for me. The fact that legisvakance has been established for an disproportionately short period of time, without saying how long that time is supposed to be, seems to me to be awfully general and that this is a political proclamation rather than a declaration that would tell the future legislator how long legisvacancing times would be optimal for such codes. I consider it to be a much bigger problem that, for example, the Senate has not had a chance to pursue more of the Code by adapting the legislative process. Thirty days is really a very short time. And in this direction, we should think about adopting another code by chance. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we will take an extremely important step for the Czech rule of law if we support this legal measure and thus allow the new Civil Code to be launched. Every delay in the Civil Code, if we do not mean the hidden abolition of the Civil Code, every extension of the period when we have a 1964 law, although many times amended but insufficient, is extremely dangerous to the stability of the Czech rule of law and to the legal certainty of citizens. Most citizens and companies and lawyers expect the law to be implemented, and I beg you to take that step and then let us do everything we can to minimize the problems that may arise in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u21	I thank Mr Jiří Pospíšil. I'm going to ask my colleague Chvojka to continue because I have three priority rights here. The first priority right of the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. I beg you to take the floor. Mr. Roman Sklenák. President Bělobrádek and then Minister Benešová will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose, on behalf of the Social Democracy Clubs and YES 2011, that we should act today and vote after 19 and 21 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister. According to Article 53 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. On a proposal from at least two or two fifths of the Chamber of Deputies, such proposals may be submitted and voted on without debate. I'll begin the vote on order number 15. But first, I will try to attract you to the House of Gong, if you will allow me to give our colleagues a chance to vote on this procedural proposal. For those who have not heard in the lobby, I will repeat the proposal. According to Article 53 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. President Roman Sklenák proposed voting on behalf of two members of the Chamber of Deputies after 19th and after 21st hours. Initiating vote number 15 and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 15, for 134, against 10. The motion was accepted. The Chamber of Deputies will vote on the Senate's legal action after the 19th or after the 21st hour of today. According to my report, the President and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Bělobrádek will exercise the right of priority. I give him my word. Secretary Benešová will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, the KDU-ČSL has great reservations about certain passages of legal measures, but we have decided that the lesser evil is ultimately to support these legal measures, so I am giving you this opinion of our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u25	I thank Vice-President Bělobrádek and Mrs. Minister of Justice Marie Benešová will take the floor. The co-worker Chvojka is then duly logged in. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I did not originally want to perform, but as I am listening here, I should certainly say something for the Ministry of Justice, which I have been managing since summer, and I have experienced the anassis with the Civil Code. [[18.40 hours]] The previous Minister Pospíšil here remembered how the Civil Code was formed. And here I have to tell him the truth. It dates back to 13 years. Otakar Motejl and other ministers after him started working on it, so it is not a work for several years, but it is a long work and I think it would be a shame to throw it under the table. I myself had great contradictions with this civil code, and I was not at all convinced that it was right. I was convinced that it was better to follow the path of partial amendments. But as I have to struggle with this standard, I'm beginning to like the Civil Code even now. I've got a terrible anabasis with it, because when I joined the Justice Department, it was said that the judges weren't prepared at all, no one was trained. Everyone wanted this thing to be postponed for a year. I've really been doing this, I've circled all the regions. And the judges, it's not that bad, they're ready and they're okay with it. A number of trainings are currently underway including ministerial training, further training from the Justice Academy. So what can I say? We're basically prepped, there's no problem. The last problems I've dealt with have been problems if our computers don't click. And that's where we really put the last money left for the Ministry to restore the computer system. So you could say the justice system is ready. The rest is up to them to really want and to put all their strength and status honor into it. I don't want to judge legal measures here. They're from the Ministry of Finance's workshop. The Prime Minister has made it clear that the matter cannot be delayed. I believe so, too. Therefore, I ask that all these things be approved today, because otherwise the civil code will actually fall under the table and we have more trouble. I think that would be more a shame than the damage we're talking about here. I think we should be responsible people and not throw away 13-year-old work, so I ask the House to take legal action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u27	Thank you, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. The words will be taken by colleague Jan Chvojka, Mr Martin Komárek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the ordinary citizen does not worry if it is valid, virtually. effective new Civil Code, or old. I think what bothers him in the first place is that his dispute, which comes to trial, and it doesn't matter if the court deals with it under the old Civil Code or the new Civil Code, will be dealt with if there is an appeal or an appeal. Call, more than five or six years. That's the thing that I think is bothering the citizen more than whether the lawsuit will be settled under the new or old Civil Code or whether the treaty he signs will be under the new or old Civil Code. It's just a little bit of my first impression. Second thing. I'd like to do a short recap. Maybe I'll get on the nerves of some of you, those of you who have been here for the past term, but I suspect you're 118 new, so you haven't had the chance to get acquainted with what I've been saying here for the past term. I have been here quite often both against the Civil Code itself, I mean the new Civil Code and the accompanying laws. Former Minister Pospíšil is right that the new Civil Code has been approved and discussed for a very long time, that the Constitutional Legal Committee has given him plenty of time, and that was completely professional and serious. Although most social democracy did not agree with the new Civil Code, the negotiations themselves were conducted in a very professional manner, regardless of whether they were from the right or the left, and whether they agreed or not. It just somehow managed to grasp and discuss it, and I suspect that the Civil Code came into force sometime in the spring of 2012. I think the legitimization period was fine, the year and the quarter is fine. However, there is another point to be pointed out here. The new Civil Code is not only the Civil Code itself, but it is also about the accompanying regulations. The former President himself said that there was some mistake, that the accompanying regulations - and I will look on the laptop - came to the House under House press number 930. It must be said that this House press had some 1,300 pages, if I remember correctly, and that it regulated some 80 or 75 laws. So I repeat: 1,300 pages that regulated 75 laws and came to the House as accompanying laws on 5 March 2013, i.e. sometime eight months ago. These accompanying laws have been approved by the Chamber of Deputies - I'm sorry - 8. 8. and the Senate were discussed on 12 September. [[She's looking for a moment on her laptop.]] That means the legi-vacation period is three months. Some might point out that these are technical changes, that they align themselves with the new Civil Code with the terms in other laws. In a sense, this is the case, but it must be said that the accompanying law contained a lot of changes to the laws as if they were factual, not just terminology. And I've already criticized this in the last term of office. I do not think it is polite that it is moral to send such a broad, comprehensive House press on the number of 1,300 pages to Parliament in March and count on that from 1. 1. will be effective. I also want to respond to the former Minister Pospíšil through the Vice-President. Mr Pospíšil said that this was the fault of the House's dissolution and that it was chaos afterwards and that it was not a matter of discussion. Of course, it wasn't a mistake of this condition. The mistake was at the Ministry of Justice, which was first led by Minister Pospíšil, then by Minister Blažek, who somehow inherited it. Of course, I consider it a fundamental mistake that these accompanying laws will be presented one year after the Civil Code itself has been approved. Of course, it's not about a political crisis, it's about you sleeping in the Justice Department. One last thing - and I said it in the last term of office. I don't think the public administration is ready for a new Civil Code. I don't think the judges are ready for the new Civil Code. Even those who were said to benefit most from the new Civil Code, i.e. lawyers, because, of course, lawyers are the ones who, when a citizen comes to them -- look, I have a problem with how they're going to deal with it -- so the lawyers should probably profit most from it. Thus, even in the middle of October, the state of law adopted a resolution that the new Civil Code should be postponed. So I don't think it's true that everyone wants the new Civil Code, that perhaps even citizens - I'm waiting when they say it - are looking forward to it... that from 1. 1. Looking forward to it when the beautiful 3 080 paragraph code is finally effective. That's not true. Unfortunately, and that is the point of our resolution, nothing can be done about that today. We have the end of November, in no way with the use of any legislative mechanisms of shortened management or legislative lack of effectiveness can be postponed. But surely you need to prepare for it, and I stand by it and I think the entire MP's club of the ČSSD, that from 1. 1. there will be a great chaos. It's just the way it's gonna be. One last thing. I'm a little sorry when Mr. Rusnok was at our former MP's club at the time, I asked him what the position of the new government on the Civil Code would be, if they were thinking of delaying efficiency - I think it was at the beginning of July. He said, virtually. I hear the same arguments from former Minister Pospíšil that companies and financial institutions have been preparing for this for a very long time and that it would be about losing big money. The second point that some speakers argue is that comments are already being written. Of course, I don't think the new Civil Code should be the subject of any money or the fact that new comments are being written that cost quite a lot of money and on which the authors are quite loaded. [[18.50 hours]] I have a feeling the publications on the new Civil Code are already about 20. Of course, they're not cheap. I understand that the authors are looking forward to their work being in the bookstore and selling it for quite a lot of money. However, I think that's probably not all, but that we really should think about the addressee of that standard, that is, the public administration, the companies, the ordinary citizens, the courts, the lawyers. And I think that the vast majority of these addressees and people who will use and interpret and apply the Civil Code just don't want it. However, I repeat: There's nothing we can do about it, it's just that. Therefore, I would like to ask that we, by a majority of the Chamber of Deputies, at least support the resolution proposed by my fellow Member Tejc and possibly Professor Válková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u29	I would like to thank Mr Chvojka and ask his colleague Komárek to wait a little longer, because a colleague Jiří Pospíšil, who I invite to make his point of order, has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just a very brief response to my colleague Chvojka, who has approached me several times, and the response is therefore through you, Mr President: If Mr Chvojka here is talking about the resolution of the Czech Bar Association, it would be fair to say that this resolution fell on Friday evening at the end of this famous legal state when there were only 200 people in the room of ten thousand lawyers and those 110 to 90 adopted such a resolution. Anyone who compares 10,000 lawyers and a resolution supported by a hundred lawyers will realise how representative such a resolution is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u31	I thank my colleague Pospíšil for his time, and I ask Mr Martin Komárek to take the floor. A colleague of Mr. Szczetin will be Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone a year ago, when I was watching this honored gathering from the gallery over there, said I was gonna talk here, I'd think he was crazy. Well, it happened, life is sometimes interesting, and maybe it'll be even more interesting. Now I am speaking as a rookie, as a little bit of us, who were first elected, called the former rookie Mr Korte, who is not here now, but maybe the look of a rookie, I would say a normal person, will be of some use. When companies, and it really sometimes can compare the state apparatus with the company, they make a mistake, it means they don't get all the details of their product, last time they did it for example Boeing, so of course they pull it off at their own expense, and only when it's absolutely perfect, it can fly again. We're all saying that what we're presenting to people is not only imperfect, but that it's very bad. Some say they're both bad parts, some say they're just one part. There hasn't been anyone who thinks it's good. Please, this is completely insane. I'm sorry. We just force people to fly ours -- ours, I'm the rookie, so I'm not responsible for it yet -- to fly or ride our defective product. And they can't do anything about it. Please, I trust my colleague Helena Válková and others that we must approve now because there is no other way. So let's approve and then let's fix it. Let's fix it quickly so that it serves people and that when flying it - God forbid - no one kills themselves. We're gonna have to fix a lot more than that. And perhaps it would be good for our mental health and the mental health of those who obey us to speak briefly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u33	I thank Mr Martin Komárek. And now, with the factual remark of Mrs Helena Válková, with priority rights, the President of ODS Stanjura and then colleague Štětina, who is duly registered. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u34	Thank you, Mr President. So, a factual point, I have to train it, it has to be very brief. But since I've been quoted here several times, I answer. Firstly, when it comes to legisvacation time, I do not think that two years is an disproportionate time in general, but I think we know our Czech nature. And we need enough time for really big fundamental changes precisely because we are often preparing for them at the last minute. So I wouldn't take Hungary here as an example that we have to follow, and I would rather be for a longer period of time, as I expressed in my original contribution. And with regard to the Civil Code and its acceptance here by the judiciary, I must inform here of the perhaps surprising finding that, for example, the regional courts, who still had major problems in the summer, should take effect on 1 January 2014, and in November - at least as I have talked to some - these concerns gradually retreated, with the approaching time of entry into force. And here I will support the Minister in the demise that, as time passes, justice and the public are getting more and more prepared, they are getting acquainted with the Civil Code. So I would not see this as catastrophic - I mean the entry into force on 1 January 2014. But I see as almost catastrophic when, in connection with him and for him and with the justification for becoming effective on 1 January, they adopt standards whose impact on taxpayers and on all of us citizens and companies can be, as I have just become familiar with the opinions of many tax experts, at least unexpected and often can also be very adverse. So the legal measure is forced into the situation in which we were manipulated. I insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Jiří Dolejš, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your word. I'll measure it for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u36	I'll be even more brief. When I listen to a general resignation on a faster and more powerful solution to this problem, I am aware that I have asked the impossible and I ask the impossible. But technically, in the case of a very active government, that would be by 31. 12. I could make it. That is why I proposed the interruption, but after all, we will express it by voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u37	I thank Mr Dolejš. Words shall be taken with priority right by Mr. Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like to tell Mr Komárek by your means that it is not true that we are all saying that this is wrong or completely wrong. I think there are many who have fought for the Civil Code here for months and years, who are aware of the shortcomings, but do not say that it is wrong, and on the contrary they say that it is a good thing that after 50 years comes a completely different standard. I understand the attempt to make laws without fault, but that's an ideal we can approach. I just don't believe it. But if we can make it better, there'll be fewer mistakes, I'm sure. . I mean, the Civil Code and its accompanying laws have supporters. [[Unintelligible]] Otherwise, it's not possible that he would have gotten here in such a state if we were all against it, so we can't stand a month before we take effect and say that we all think that's wrong. Otherwise, I agree not to share with newcomers, former recruits, and longer servicers, because it doesn't lead anywhere. Technology, how to vote, can each of us do it in three days, and then we're all the same here. But what I really want to say is that it's not true that we all say it's wrong. And I want to warn you about one thing: so we don't fix it on January 10th or January 20th. To think about it and have a debate. I had the advantage that the House press had been here since August. However, again, I do not wish for legal measures to be repeated. But the MPs received a text approved in the Senate. Period. Without an explanatory note that usually every bill is accompanied by. Whether the bill is written by a Member, a group of Members or a government. And when we discuss item number 20, read the points for yourself when you have it without comment and without reason. Item 31. In Article 36 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) number 1 is replaced by number 2 etc. It's very difficult for each of us to get a sense of this. This is the first time we are discussing legal measures, but it is extremely unfortunate that there is a lack of explanatory note, or original text with the changes that these legal measures bring. I understand that this is really the first time in the history of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u39	I thank Mr Stanjur. I'm gonna ask my colleague, "Štětina, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Mr Martin Komárek came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u40	I'll be quick, and I'll even learn to walk through the steps. I was telling the truth. I said one speaker said it was wrong both, and another said only one part. And that's just the truth. Nobody commended the tax accompanying measures. Just nobody, Mr. Stanjur. That's right. [[Member Stanjura from the bench: me.]] Until now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u41	Thank you. I ask you to speak through the President, my fellow Members. It would be appropriate that we do not have any non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure here. Now, colleague Štětina, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u42	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Government, Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen. I hesitated whether I should or shouldn't go in front of the speaker's counter. I am not an expert, and many people have spoken before me, whom I respect, because they are very erudized lawyers. Finally, I like the discussion that has developed here. There is only one problem - that we should have discussed this at least one and a half years ago in order to avoid having to deal with some of the things that experts, judges, lawyers, notaries, actually call attention to. I, of course, fully respect, and I will certainly support this, the Government's position and the Minister's, but on my several points I would like to draw attention to the things that the judge is most concerned about. Experience from preparation for the application of the new Civil Code and related regulations has shown that the readiness of courts, public authorities, notaries, lawyers and citizens is not sufficient. Finally, the professional legal public itself is concerned that the new Civil Code may soon result in legal chaos, which can bring about a dramatic increase in litigation, a reduction in legal certainty, including predictability and, above all, the enforcement of law. This new legal code has 3 081 paragraphs and fundamental observations of the legal situation must be taken seriously into account. How does justice and the public see the biggest problems? 1. It is the readiness of practical lawyers, which is not sufficient, as I have already said, and, of course, the resolution of the legal chamber, which is correct here by Dr Pospíšil through the President, which did not agree with this. [[Remind me?]] It is quite obvious that these very persons will be the first to work with the new Civil Code, and this will be the case when making contracts, a list of wills, inheritance agreements and all the common things that life brings us. 2. It should be taken into account that the text of the new adaptation is ambiguous in a number of places. I would like to mention, for example, § 2254 paragraph 2, where it is not clear what the amount of interest should be for the previous provisions of the new Civil Code in the inheritance law provision. 3. What is also quite fundamental is the disunified interpretation of a number of provisions of the new Civil Code, where some provisions are otherwise interpreted by the Supreme Court judges and otherwise by the authors of recodification. It's not a thing that's neglectful. And of course, and I've already said that, although I agree that, of course, judges and lawyers are gradually learning to work with this new code, the readiness is not what the law would have imagined. 4. It is quite obvious and justified concern that funds have been sufficiently mapped and secured for the costs of the State that the application of the new Civil Code will require in connection with, for example, the proceedings on the legality of persons. A significant increase in the cost of the state's expertise can be expected, since according to Section 59 one can be limited to a maximum of three years in legal capacity. Thus, any decision to restrict man's right will need to be reviewed every three years with the help of an expert. Only in the District Court in Hradec Králové is currently registered 480 persons limited or deprived of legal capacity. This means, therefore, that for each of these statutory reviews the expert will have to draw up his opinion, which stands between CZK 3,000 and CZK 4,000. So if we count it only in Hradec Králové, it's a few hundred thousand, and it will certainly be in the whole republic as well. 5. I would like to say that the methodology for compensation for damage to health has not yet been completed. It is currently being prepared by the Supreme Court, along with experts from doctors and insurance companies. This fact is of decisive importance for the out-of-court sector, in particular for insurance companies as a guide for compensation for damage to health after the repeal of Decree No. 440/2001 Sb., which dealt with scores. I think we could also watch a very interesting discussion on television on this point. What can I say in conclusion? I have said that it may not be possible to postpone the effectiveness of the Labour Code for a year in some legal and reasonable way, but I very much like it and I recommend that we agree with the proposals made by my colleague Dr. Tejc and Professor Válková. And I was also very interested in the solution of my colleague Mr Mládek. I understand that this is certainly a great task for the government, but if we do not succeed, then at least the points I mentioned would need to be completed as soon as possible after the New Year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u43	Thank you, Mr Štětin. The last written colleague, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, has applied for the floor so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u44	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to quote the opinion of one particular judge on the new Civil Code, and unfortunately this position is very different from the experience presented here by Mr Pospíšil or the Minister. The judge says: "In my experience, the members of the court's staff are not familiar with the law at all levels, except for the judges, and the courts are not only judges, but also other professional apparatus. The accompanying laws to the new Civil Code are all very extensive, essential and important and have been declared in the Collection of Laws at the very end of September 2013, which, with such a fundamental change in private law after 50 years and due to their intended effectiveness as at 1. 1. 2014 is completely inconvenient for practice so that it can really get to know them. The period of legislation is three months in the case of these laws. That's completely absurd. It is already possible to see many provisions of the new Civil Code in the professional public, but also other accompanying laws of considerable embarrassment. [[19.10 hours]] I can confirm this from personal repeated experience, when at various trainings the lawmakers and lecturers at these trainings have three opinions on one paragraph. However, the authors of the law reject any substantive criticism. The new Civil Code was primarily designed to be understood by a simple person, a simple citizen, when he entered it. But unfortunately, many lawyers are unable to interpret many provisions. The Czech Bar Association also calls for delaying efficiency. The law is here, but it is not followed by personnel and economic affairs. Mr Korbel, former Deputy Minister, told the Judge magazine that the courts will not have one employee to strengthen the administration, while the new Civil Code puts much more on the court in which the courts will now decide. One of the examples has already been given here, and this is a regular review of the eligibility of persons who have restrictions on legal acts. That'll be regular every three years. And for your information, it's about 35,000 people, or an extra cost of CZK 210 million every three years. There are considerable reservations about the form in which the new cadastral law was adopted, including in the case of the petitioners themselves, because the parliamentary initiatives, including those of the Senate, were not of the best. He was only recently admitted again. There are already many judgments of the courts and, in essence, the law is united in this area, even some people say that there is regional law, because different regional courts make different decisions. Now it wouldn't be regional, it would be district law, because before any thing under the new Civil Code gets into the Supreme Court, possibly. The Constitutional Court will continue to unify the case-law for another 20 years, especially in order to distinguish between the interpretation of many paragraphs of the new Civil Code. Who will benefit from this chaos? Maybe big law firms like that, but normal people probably don't. For example, a law on special court proceedings was written by an assistant from the Faculty of Law in Olomouc, which is about 35 years old. I have absolutely nothing against age, but she started teaching immediately after school at the faculty, so a theorist with no practice who lectures and teaches what a new civil code should look like. Unfortunately, that law also looks like that. One of the other co-creators and lecturers urges, in turn, to disregard the decisions of the Grand Senate of the Supreme Court. In doing so, this is a supreme court order, which, under the law on courts and judges in conjunction with the Constitution, is entitled to make binding interpretations of the laws and to adopt opinions on them. Again, it is an example of theory, but it absolutely does not respect practice. I'm afraid so. The most important thing is that these people, these theorists, who can afford to write one article for two months, should realize that judges must issue about 30 judgments each month, much more in some courts. However, their formal and theoretical approach shows that they have never seen real practice in courts. For all the reasons that I have put forward here, and it was the particular experience of a particular judge, I would like to ask that we actually consider that the House consider delaying the effectiveness of civil society by at least one year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u45	Thank you and now the President of the Senate Milan Štěch is signed in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u46	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, I will just briefly respond to some of the reservations that have been raised here in the direction of the Senate, because I assume that the Prime Minister will respond to some of the other issues that have been raised here. Firstly, the Member and President Stanjura spoke as to whether it was urgent if he could take a test of the urgency of the provision entered in the legal measure. I believe that this is, of course, a matter of controversy. We have discussed the matter with lawyers, especially constitutional lawyers, and we have been told that this is to some extent the precedent that we are creating, and it is up to us. It is up to the government, the Senate, at this point in time, the Chamber of Deputies, how they will stand up to this matter. But it can also be seen from the debate that is going on here, that this is a very individual approach, because Mr Stanjura said that we, from the legal measure, have prepared in the Senate the things that he considers to be good and necessary, so in other words, those should have stayed there, and the things that we consider to be right and remained there, he considers that they do not correspond to the test of urgency. You can see how this is an individual approach, and I believe that this is necessary to respect that the Senate is a sovereign in this matter and is presenting a proposal with which he has identified himself. I hope that no one doubts that the Senate has simply exercised its right to discuss the ordinary law which concerned the area of tax laws and which the Senate has rejected. And, of course, we demanded that such an amendment be submitted to us, virtually. such a legal measure, which will only respond to and only to the necessary extent to the need to recodify private tax law and will not be extended to those things that were previously incorporated by the government and it was in the ordinary tax law. But the government itself and our legislation finally stated that in such a short time it is not only possible to prepare for the necessary things to remain there, because there was a danger that there would be errors and that practice would have great problems with that. So from this point of view, I agree with Professor Válková that the legal measures in this area should have been much narrower, but there was no legislation, virtually. Legislation that would be willing to go into risk in such a short period of time by removing things that appear to be at first sight, such as that they are necessary, that there will be no error that would make it impossible to apply then the connection with the effectiveness of the new Civil Code. So I think it's crucial. And as far as the fact that it was criticized here, that we've released an acceleration in depreciation and stuff like that. You know, in the year when the people's food prices went up, by raising VAT on the other hand, allowing a relatively narrow group of citizens, for example, to speed up car depreciation, a reasonable person may not understand that. And that's not what the Senate thinks. The Senate simply had a different opinion than the last majority of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for the main one that actually sounds here and which is definitely the subject of legitimate controversy, and that's the emergency test, but we all make the precedent together, and I think The Senate did what it could do at the time, and that it was also in line with the proposal put forward by the government, which means that it was not possible to remove in a short time, to prepare all the things that were there and are certainly redundant, but it is not certain that there would be any gross error that would make it impossible for trouble-free or with as little problems as possible to use the Civil Code in the direction of tax laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u47	Thank you. Yes, I see the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few brief comments on what I have here. the discussion was heard. The President of the Senate has already said one very important thing. We really were before some sophiiný's choice, as the honourable Member said. We found ourselves in the government's responsibility in order, if I'm not mistaken, July 10th... [[Mr Korte:]] Ambassador, if you don't mind, I don't yell at you that way either. Thank you. [[19.20 hours]] At that time we were in a situation where accompanying laws to the new Civil Code, which at that time was already valid and essentially effective in its main standard, virtually. effective from 1 January next year, but valid, so they were at the stage of I suspect second reading or at some such stage of preparation. And we have been very honest - and the Minister has also talked about it - considering what to do next, whether we can still stop this whole thing without causing much damage in terms of what has already been done both in justice and in law and in public administration, but also in the case of businesses, for companies that are affected by the amendment of the Civil Code, but also for citizens and all other addressees of this fundamental change of such an important code. We are not fans of the new Civil Code, we did not present it, we did not initiate it, none of us who were forced to deal with it were connected to the preparation of the new Civil Code. But we have weighed a very complex equation on the scales, whether we have it in July, de facto in August, to stop the whole situation, where at least a year now a number of institutions, whether public or private, have been preparing very seriously for this standard to apply. They had no idea that in June 2013, the government would fall and start a completely rapid political process here, which could include the fact that the standard, which is so fundamental, would suddenly not apply. Once we have really considered these things very honestly, we have come to the conclusion that less damage will occur if the process of legislative change in private law is completed. In relation to this, of course, we expected the Senate to stand up to its proposals. These proposals have been passed by the Chamber of Deputies, the proposals of these additionals, if you want accompanying standards, or we are talking about tax laws in particular. They passed the Chamber of Deputies, made their way to the Senate. The Senate, on a sovereign basis, which, in my view, is entirely legitimate, decided that two of these accompanying standards would not be approved in the wording in which they were presented to it. And I understand the senát because part of those standards really was a whole bunch of things that weren't supposed to be there when it was just the accompanying standards of the Civil Code. But unfortunately, such is and was a legislative culture not only to the past government and perhaps also to other governments, that it simply added to a medium a number of other changes that are not directly related to the primary purpose of the standard, and the Senate concluded that some tax changes, and I am not surprised at all, because in a situation where we are fighting hundreds of billions of budget deficits every year, in a situation where we really, so to speak, pull every crown out of every taxpayer that the Czech tax jurisdiction can achieve, so suddenly say that we are going to let the changes that, in my opinion, are really very debatable and generous, so it simply decided that they would not let those standards go on. And we found ourselves before the dilemma of what to do next. If these standards are not, there will be a huge gap in tax laws that will end with a fiscal problem, and that is crucial, we are talking about billions, and the implementation of the new Civil Code itself will be very problematic. So after the debate that we reflected in the Senate, we figured that the greatest value was some predictable continuity, and I'm appealing here to what I heard, and I was glad to hear it, in the election campaign: a functioning state, a responsibility of a good economy. These are all things that we have considered very seriously. Some concrete steps are part of these things. And if we were before this decision that it would either end up in chaos or, as far as possible, so that the Senate would be transparent, we would let what was already expected come to an end, so we chose the second option, because we believe that it will ultimately cause much less damage. That was all philosophy. No more, no less, please don't look for it. We have taken all possible steps, see the Secretary's speech, to ensure that justice and other relevant institutions are sufficiently prepared for this. We have also supported them with additional resources in order to increase the capacity needed not only for training but also for implementation phase, when all this will be in progress. So this was a clue that oriented us. I think we have acted completely responsible for acting like good farmers, because it is about making the damage that potentially every major change brings, every major change means discomfort. And, you know, don't be mad at me, so sad that they're gonna have to learn something new to the judge, not to mention the lawyers, well, life is like that. How many of you are here today many new companies, from real life, as Mr Komárek said nicely, had to learn something new x-times in life to adapt to some situation. Well, they're gonna have to do it, too. I think that they are even well paid for this - unlike other employees in the public sphere - for it. So that's just life. Those things don't happen day after day. These will simply be implemented gradually. I really can't sign up for those initiatives that, I admit, are consistently raised by colleagues from the KSČM MEP's club, which would be totally irresponsible. Today, six or I don't know how many weeks before it's effective, just pretending that we're gonna change it with some super-fast novel here, everything's gonna be different - I'm sorry, I'm not doing this. I'm afraid that's not possible. I'm saying I'm not a fan of the new Civil Code. I know, you're free to declare anything anytime, I don't buy it. But I don't have that freedom right now, maybe I'll live to see it someday, and then I'll understand it better. But it's just too late, we're past the turning point, and neither I nor you were the ones who originally caused the change. I have expressed my views on the changes made by the Senate. I think the changes correspond to the conditions of the Czech Republic today, that they do not mean anything bad. On the contrary, I think they have protected to some extent public budgets. I'm sorry, but I wouldn't be so burdened with the fact that dividends are taxed on us. We have a lot of double taxation in our lives. When grandma goes to the savings bank to put money that has been taxed - perhaps more someone who is active working because, unlike Europe, pensions are not paradoxically taxed, she goes to the savings bank, they tax the income that she receives in the savings bank - now almost none - so it is also double taxation, no one is crying so terribly over this fact. And double taxation in many combinations that exist is quite common in the world. I think we did what was possible art. [[19.30 hours]] The President spoke of the separation of things that were merely caused by the recodification. That's exactly what he said, I'm confirming it. It would be a huge gamble to try to separate from the huge standard that went through the commentary process in two weeks, with all possible feedback, to put it on its knees, even if it were government legislation, only you. It would have been so right originally, but by the time things took place in the order of days and weeks, it could not have been done properly and properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u49	Thank you. That was the Prime Minister. I will ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see a general application, so I'd end the general. I open the debate in detail where I have one application. Member Tejc prefers Mrs Válková, in which case Mrs Válková has the floor. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u50	I thank the gallant Member, Mr Tejc. I don't know what he's gonna want in return. Seriously. I would very much like to introduce you to the proposal that I spoke about in the opening speech, namely with such an expression of our position with which we are adopting or not taking the legal measure that we have now discussed. And I believe that it is very linked, even logically, with the effectiveness of the new Civil Code, or it is not accidental that the statement that I propose to be adopted as an accompanying resolution begins with this very problem. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic notes that the effectiveness of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., the Civil Code and related legislation, on 1 January 2014 was established for an excessively short period of time not corresponding to the scope or severity of legislative changes in the legal order of the Czech Republic. However, the postponement of the effectiveness of the Civil Code and the related regulations before their planned entry into force no longer allows for an extremely short-term legislative process. Failure to approve the Senate's statutory measure on the amendment of tax laws in connection with the re-codification of private law and amending certain acts and the Senate's legal measure on the acquisition of immovable property would lead to legal chaos and risks in the area of proper tax collection as of 1 January 2014, and, in view of the length of the legislative process, these standards cannot be re-submitted and discussed in a modified form. We are aware that the Civil Code has been effective since 1 January 2014 in view of the lack of preparation for its application in practice, the extensive discount compared to the existing legislation and the lack of consistency with other legislation brings a number of risks, possible negative impacts and will likely lead to a reduction in the legal certainty of citizens and an increase in the unpredictability of judicial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u51	Thank you for the motion for a resolution and I ask you or a colleague Teaks to put a copy on my desk. [[It's done.]] Thank you. My colleague Tejc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u52	I would therefore add the second part of the resolution that we could vote on: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to carry out an analysis of the new Civil Code based on experience from practice and on the results obtained, propose an amendment to the law eliminating its most serious problems, shortcomings and uncertainties, not later than the end of 2014. Furthermore, it asks the future government of the Czech Republic to adopt rapidly changes in both organisational and legislative matters after consultation with representatives of the judiciary in order to remove obstacles to the proper application of the Civil Code in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u53	Thank you. Another for a detailed debate is Mr Dolejš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u54	I'll repeat in detail here. That is, the proposal was: to interrupt the item, to ask the Government to submit a proposal to the House to postpone the application of the Act for one year, and that would be pending the discussion of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u55	Thank you. Do you have your proposal in writing? [[He doesn't, messenger. Dolejš is leaving to prepare his proposal in writing.]] I'll also ask if that's possible. So I will ask if there are any more applications for the debate. If this is not the case, I will also conclude a detailed debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Not interested. In that case, I will ask you for two minutes of patience, because I must wait for my colleague Dolejš to give me the text of the resolution so that we all know what we are voting on. So I'm going to interrupt the meeting for two minutes, and we're going to continue at 19.37. [[The hearing is suspended from 19.35 to 19.37 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The deadline has passed and I have succeeded in obtaining the original text of Mr Dolejš's motion for a resolution, and I have even managed to include what form of resolution it is. Please take your seats. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down, and we'll continue like this. The final words - they were not interested. In a detailed debate, Mr Dolejš proposed that we interrupt this point and ask the Government to submit a proposal to postpone the effectiveness of legislative standards for one year. Mr. Colleague, is this okay? [[Yes.]] So I see this as a procedural vote, because this is a suspension of the hearing, and I will therefore let it be voted on at this moment. I have Mr Tejc's factual comment here. No, that was an early vote. I'm erasing my colleague Tejka. I will repeat once again what we are voting on. We are voting to adjourn this item until the Government presents its proposal, which is specified in the next part of this resolution, when we ask the Government to submit a proposal to postpone the effectiveness of legislative standards for one year. Is it clear what we are voting on? If so, I shall begin the vote. [[The PM from the rapporteur's desk has an objection.]] Sorry, I consider this a mistrial vote. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u56	Mr President, Mr President, I think I have already made it clear that I am afraid that this is technically impossible. So I'm just pointing out that this is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u57	Prime Minister, I understand you, but technically this proposal is a voteable one. I think the only way we're gonna figure this out is by voting on him. I believe that colleagues and colleagues will take into account your position and the factual argument in their vote. If there are no more requests for a word, I will indeed begin the vote and ask who is in favour of interrupting this point, ask him to raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 17, registered as 189, for 36, against 99, this proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore return to the vote on the legal measure. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves according to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 5 Constitution of the Czech Republic legal measure of the Senate No. 344/2013 Coll., on the amendment of tax laws in connection with the recodification of private law and the amendment of certain laws." Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 18, 189 colleagues and colleagues have signed in, for 149, against no one. I therefore say that we have given our consent to this resolution. We would now vote on the accompanying resolution as the last thing on this point, and it is the resolution that I understand together or in parts. The first part was presented by Mrs Válková and the second part by colleague Tejc. I'll ask: do you want me to read it again? We know what we're voting on. Is there no objection that we will vote directly? It's not like that. I'll put it to a vote. Initiating vote. If you agree to this accompanying resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 19, registered as 189, for 112, against 36, this accompanying resolution has been adopted. The President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club shall be declared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, not with priority rights this time. In the previous vote, I voted against, and I have a pro on high. Just for the stew. I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-012-018.u59	Thank you. You do not question the vote. For screen recording only. If no one else reports, I'll end item 18 and open item 19, which is relevant to this matter in agreement, and then we'll go back to point 17. This point is
