ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u1	17. Legal provision of the Senate amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on universal health insurance premiums, as amended /German press 1/ I ask the Prime Minister to present this press. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this Senate legal measure was to increase the assessment base on which the relevant insurance and public health insurance is calculated for state insured persons. The reason for this was the critical financial situation of the entire public health insurance system. This assessment basis was thus amended by this decision of the Senate on a proposal from the Government of CZK 5,355 to the current CZK 5,829 compared to the previous one, or, more precisely, the previous one, because this standard has already been effective de facto since November of this year, compared to the previous one, i.e. from CZK 723 per person per month we increased this payment to CZK 787 per person per month. The increased assessment base was brought in November and will bring about 784 million in December of this year to the public health insurance system. extra crowns. Next year, compared to previous legislation, the State will pay about 4.7 billion for its insured persons. More crowns. So together, more than 5.5 billion. CZK, if I count November, December 2013 and the whole year 2014. How intense and acute the problem of financing public health services is, I dare to demonstrate on several elementary data. Since 2009, public health funding has been largely built on the drawing of reserves from previous years. Between 2009 and 2012, the management of health insurance companies ended annually in deficits of between 5 and almost 7 billion. Crowns. Overall, around 24 billion have been exhausted from the reserves of the previous years. In fact, there are almost no reserves in the CZK and in the system. Some insurance companies are total zero, or minus, and some have survived some reserves so far. This situation is due, on the one hand, to the stagnation of income, which is logical given that this economy has been stagnating for five years and is de facto not even increasing wages that are a basic source of public health insurance. For your information only: before 2008, the year-on-year collection of premiums increased by approximately 8 billion. crowns a year. In the years following, the additions were more or less around a positive zero. As far as expenditure is concerned, there is, of course, also significant pressure to increase it. This is due to the ageing population. I would like to point out that, as of 2010, the Czech population is growing significantly older. It's what we've been expecting for a long time, and we've finally come to see it, but I don't know if we've always been ready for it and if we're ready for it. Of course, health care is also an important factor in providing better services, which, given the new technology, new medicines, also means increasing expenditure. In addition, as a result of the increase in the value added tax rate, the public health insurance system has carried out and will also carry out in this year's and the next in 2012 to 2014, i.e. in three years' time, plus 10.4 billion. CZK compared to the previous state. At the end of this year, a total balance can be assumed in the public health insurance system minus 8 billion. Crowns. At the end of 2014, we expect another fall, which unfortunately can reach up to 3 billion. Crowns. Moreover, it will be deepened by the fact that by the end of 2013, the Public Health Insurance Act will no longer be amended on the question of regulatory fees for hospitalization, and it is therefore more than likely that bed-care providers will lose more income, which currently accounts for more than 2 billion. CZK annually and with which these providers have long been counting in their balance sheets. We are already in a situation where the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic is unable to repay its claims on time, and therefore bed care providers get into difficult financial problems, which they have to deal not only with extraordinary measures on the part of expenditure, but also often with loans or sales of claims, respectively. commitments. As a result, payments to suppliers of medicines, medical devices are delayed and at the end of 2013 hospital obligations are likely to reach 6 billion at the end of 2013. Crowns. Thus, by this legal measure of the Senate, we are trying to prevent a basically acute crisis situation where those entities would start to limit the supply of medicines to bed care providers. Unfortunately, this is already happening in some individual cases. [[20.20 hours]] The amount is 4.7 billion. in 2014, by which the payment has been increased, constitutes a compromise solution within the current public finance options. It is a fact that this amount should have been higher in accordance with the above data. The Ministry of Health itself preferred an increase of 7.2 billion, but this proposal has already exceeded the financial possibilities of public budgets and, I would say, to some extent, the competence of this government. We consider the situation very serious. I think high-quality and affordable public health is one of the fundamental values of a civilised country that I definitely consider the Czech Republic to be, and I believe that we will also be able to consider for the future. If you do not approve this legal measure of the Senate here in the Chamber of Deputies, it will mean that the general health insurance policy will be removed from the assessment basis, through which the public health insurance policy will be established for the state insured. This would de facto mean preventing any insurance premiums from being paid for these persons. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to ask you, in view of the very poor financial situation of the public health insurance system, to approve this measure and to contribute to stabilisation, I would say, to mitigating the acute problems of financing this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u3	Thank you. I now ask the President of the Senate to inform us of the course of this legislative measure in the Senate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, if, in the cases of the previous two legal measures, the Senate, by not approving the original proposal, forced the legal measures to be put forward indirectly, if the effectiveness of the recodification of the Civil Code was insisted, it was not in this case. In this case, the government has, of course, decided to take a step on the basis of the factual situation that exists in the health sector. The fact that there was also a reflection in the previous government of Petr Nečas to increase payments for state insured persons is known because, if I am not mistaken, Minister Heger has spoken to the public about this several times in discussions and with the public. The situation is widely known. There is talk of a relatively significant increase in value added tax in health care. That's conclusive, and I think it's nice to talk about reserves inside the system, but if someone doesn't name them and doesn't take precautions to expose the reserves and create free resources, it's futile talk, which can, of course, adversely affect those who didn't, and it's those who need medical care. Most of the time, they're old people and people who don't have the chance to secure health care for cash. For this reason, the Senate has decided to comply with the Government, to take legal action, because we believe that the reasons given, for example, that the four years of the valuation of this payment have not been carried out, that both inflation factors and VAT increases have been reflected there. For this reason, we also believe that this is a test of urgency, because for people, it is of course for citizens, and certainly for all of us here, health in the first place and the availability of health care is a condition. As far as the Senate is concerned, the debate was more about how much. Senators would have liked to propose a larger amount, in this regard they were especially addressed to health care providers and various groups representing the area around health care. Finally, it was granted to the government and it was taken very seriously that the government did not have any other resources to use this year, as this change has become effective since 1 November this year. Finally, I think that a serious approach prevailed, and the temptation to put a larger amount was not fulfilled, it was not used. Personally, I was glad because I think it is necessary for the government to say the final word in these matters, which is responsible for fulfilling the resources for the necessary expenses. In the Senate, after the debate for the proposal of 59 voting senators, 51 senators were positively expressed, one might say, across the political spectrum. So much information about the Senate hearing. I believe that the Government's proposal will be granted here, too, because I believe that this is for a good cause, in order to ensure affordable health care for the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u5	Thank you. I am opening a debate for which I have four written applications so far. Please, in the general debate of Mrs Soňa Marková, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u6	Have a good night. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, allow me to give a brief opinion from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on this legal measure. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia welcomes this proposal of a legal measure as the conclusion of a long-term attempt to correct the distortion of payments for state insured persons. The one we know was caused by the so-called freezing of these payments during the reign of Mirek Topolánek. Even then, we strongly pointed out the antisocial efforts of the then right-wing government coalition to cut solidarity revenues into public health insurance and replace them with money from patients' pockets. We have repeatedly put forward not only proposals to increase these payments, but also to abolish the ceiling on premiums for the richest income. Our aim was and is to return solidarity to the health system as enshrined in Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of our Constitution. However, a mantra of previous governments has become an increase in the internal efficiency of the public health insurance system to which this system should have coped with a lack of funds. It is now clear that this system has in recent years reached a significant deficit, which can no longer be offset by internal savings. The total balance of the public health insurance scheme in 2013 will thus reach a negative value of 8 billion. Crowns. And what was the state doing so far? The assessment base for such persons' premiums is long-term unchanged and in the same period the value added tax was increased by five percentage points. This has led to an increase in unemployment and therefore to a further decline in income, which has been happening since 2009. The explanatory memorandum of the Ministry states: "The difference between the situation with the extrapolated value of the payment for state insured persons, if the average valorisation from previous years was accepted, and the fair value is approximately 18 billion for 2011, 2012 and 2013. Crowns. As a result of VAT changes, health insurance companies and health service providers issued approximately 6.6 billion more. CZK in 2012 and 2013. The total amount for the last three years as a result of the VAT increase will be approximately 10.4 billion. koruna." In doing so, the VAT revenue becomes the income of the state budget without taking account of its failure in the public health insurance system. The total decline that the entire health insurance system - and I stress it again - has dealt with almost exclusively from its sources is 30 billion. Crowns. That's the money the state took without compensation or didn't put into the system. [[20.30 hours]] The legal measure under discussion is nothing more than an effort to at least partially contribute to the correction and, at the same time, to a response to a resolution approved by this Chamber of Deputies before it is dissolved. I would remind you that this resolution put forward by the representatives of the KSČM called on the then government to immediately increase payments for state insured persons. The contribution to the revenue part of public health insurance will therefore amount to 4.7 billion. It is clear that this is only a basic step every year and by just comparing it with the total number mentioned. This needs to be followed by changes in the form of standard legislative proposals. A slight increase in the premium base for state insured persons will only result in partial and temporary stabilisation of the system. We need to start an accelerated debate on really systemic steps. These could, for example, be provisions on automatic increases in the insurance base for state insured persons at least on inflation or return to a state at the beginning of the operation of the public health insurance scheme. The State has determined the amount of the premium base for state insured persons in such a way that, after adding up the expected contributions of employees, employers, OBZP and CFI for the year in respect of the number of state insured persons, its amount is equalized to the amount needed to cover the full reimbursement of health care paid out of them. It is also possible to discuss changes in the redistribution system or the permanent abolition of the ceiling for the assessment bases for non-State insured persons. The KSČM MP club therefore fully supports this legal measure. At the same time, however, I believe that together we will think about future changes and present them in the political consensus that the health sector so desperately needs and unfortunately misses so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. The words will be taken by Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and prepared by colleague Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u8	Mr President, Mr President of the Senate, honourable Members of the Government in resignation, honourable Members, let me first say that it is an extraordinary honour for me to be here today for the first time as Members to speak from this desk. Worse, the subject I am talking about is a subject which, in my opinion, is poorly addressed. Payment by the State is a necessary part of the income of public health insurance, which complements insurance premiums paid by economically active persons. But its main problem is its unpredictability. The Treasury is using it as one of the buffers it has at its disposal when drawing up the state budget. A law has already been adopted twice, which automatically determined the amount of the State's payment by anchoring it to the average wage, repeatedly but this law has been abolished. The payment of the State automatically linked to the performance of the economy would represent an increase in predictability in health care. But the main negative consequences are that it is left to ad hoc decision-making. The payment of the State usually does so - it does not increase or is slightly increased for several years, and then, on the basis of a worsening financial situation, the policy is usually increased. Last time Rath and Julínek did it. This creates a great deal of room for the lobbyist pressures of providers, the lobbyist pressures of insurance companies, who feel the possibility of increasing resources and come up with completely unrealistic demands - see the current situation where an increase in the payment of the State agreed by the Senate should bring 4.7 billion. per year, but the added requirements for an increase in the payment decree are equal to ten times that. This contributes both to uncertainty and, on the one hand, to the orientation of providers of lobbying and aid to the State, in contrast to efforts to improve the efficiency of the process. The State's payment should therefore be determined by an automatic mechanism copying, for example, wage developments. The Government's decision to present this increase in the payment for state insured persons, representing around 2% of the amount of funds moving in the health insurance, certainly does not constitute a decision which would be anemortal decision, a decision which would be subject to the possibility of recourse to a legal measure. Moreover, it is a decision directly affecting the budget by direct means. And I say again, it's a decision that re-freezes the development of the situation in this area, because from now on, all the medical facilities and all the insurance companies will be waiting for the miracle to bring them some money, they won't try to increase the efficiency of the process, because why would they do that, because the predictability of the amount of resources they get will be minimal, actually none. For this reason, although I am a health care professional and I know what health problems are, I cannot support such a legal measure - and in agreement with the whole ODS - because we fear that the situation will be the same again in the future. We're gonna wait until the situation is unsolvable, and then we're gonna put taxpayers' money right there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u9	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Mr Leoš Heger will take the floor and a colleague Rostislav Vyzula will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President of the Senate, Prime Minister, honourable Members, allow me to present here the opinion of TOP 09 that we cannot support the increase in payments from the state budget to the so-called state budget. State insurance policy. At the same time, let me justify this position more widely than I used to, but it concerns absolutely fundamental views of the problems and pillars of our health care, which the TOP 09 had the privilege of managing in the past period. I assure you that this is not some destructive hostile opposition move and that we just want to present clearly what we think and what direction our health care is for the benefit of our entire country is believed to be in the right direction. What is crucial to our position, and what is actually going on as a red thread through all the discussions on health systems, is the question of the amount of money and the question of productivity and quality of the whole system. paradoxically, I myself, as the Minister of Health of the previous government, have asked repeatedly for an increase in the state contribution, but I must say that I have asked at a time when we have already implemented a number of steps aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the health system. At that time, efforts to increase the budget were not caused by the need to address some constructed apocalyptic situations that appeared every year, as they are now. My requests were only aimed at some calming down financial tension in order to provide sufficient room for further changes that would shift efficiency above. What we are witnessing now is a completely different situation. Let us take a closer look at what is happening. The Minister in the resignation of Dr. Holcát obtained legal measures of the Senate for this year about CZK 800 million and his idea of having another CZK 10 billion available next year led to the fact that according to his ideas the Ministry of Health issued a very responsible payment decree compensating the stagnation of income from this year. I stress that I very much appreciate the serious approach, and I consider the established or presented decree really rational. [[20.40 hours]] And then what happened? The Minister was completely dishonored by trade unions, the Czech Medical Chamber and several professional associations of doctors, who began to suspect a new period of abundance under the vision of better times and promises of the coming left. Who would not stretch their hands in such an atmosphere promising money instead of demanding steps that increase efficiency? The result is that so called. emergency demands, and in this I agree with the previous speakers, are now worth tens of billions. The tough demands of health professionals in the development of financial plans are no novelty, and health ministers have met them repeatedly. But today's absurd demands well remind us of one of the root causes of the eternal problems with our medical finances. The demands were granted without saying loudly that only the care needed to be provided as much as we have, so the money flowed, disappeared, and the crisis soon repeated. As the new remuneration decree for 2014 showed, Minister Holcát would be able to resist the pressures on the impending cost escalation, but the current government is ending, the Minister of Health will leave and we have a time ahead of us when the health sector will be managed by a new coalition. The coalition that the ČSSD will be able to significantly influence as it promised in the past and in its electoral programme. In addition to the Constitutional Court's finding, it will completely abolish regulatory fees and over-the-counter and, without blinking an eye, deprive the health budget of 5 million and seal the gap with another hole in the state budget. [[billions?]] This is exactly what we have to say after this debate by voting. There is no doubt that the Czech health care, and indeed, like almost all health systems in the world, is in financial intensity. Tension is caused by population ageing and technological development, the costs of which are increasing, are ahead of GDP growth. That is why it is growing slowly and constantly in advanced and economically successful countries, and the percentage of GDP that flows into the health sector, and it is starting to be almost normally above 10 percent in Europe, while it stagnates around 7,5 percent in the long term. It can be expected that this small share of GDP for health care will gradually increase in our country as well. I understand the paramedics would like this increase right now. Most would use it for their patients, and it would certainly make life a lot easier for doctors and nurses. However, as world statistics show, the percentage of GDP resulting from health care is by far not the only indicator of the quality of the health system and is no longer directly proportional to the indicators of good population health. The most significant is the case of the most expensive health care in the world in the USA, and on the contrary, health care in the Czech Republic is one of the cheapest, although it is in the availability of care and in the results of treatment in the better half of European countries right behind much more expensive health care German. Again, I'm saying that money would help health care. But there is another fact tied to the ground where we live. Indeed, the percentage of GDP entering health care in global statistics is strongly correlated with the absolute GDP level of the country concerned. Rich countries can therefore simply afford to give more to health care and not only to have it technologically on top, as is ours at the top of technologically and health, but rich countries can also have health more luxurious, because they are no longer as poor as they are at risk of ligating money for the development of the economy. Unfortunately, we will be able to indulge in health care facilities more at a time when this country will earn more productive work on them. We must accept that we are living in an area that, thanks to its history, still has not only more luxurious health care, but also a more generous social system, richer education or technologically better-supported security forces. So, unfortunately, until the wealth of our country and its entire operation increase clearly, miracles cannot be expected, and especially if the changes that will continue to increase its kind of ridiculous efficiency here are not expected. Our government has proven to have increased health efficiency, and I, in order not to repeat what previous speakers have said, must say that we have taken over the health sector in a deficit of CZK 7 billion a year and presented social disruption with the "Thank you, we are leaving!". When we left the Ministry, this year's expected economic results indicated a significantly lower deficit in the general health insurance system of around CZK 2 billion, i.e. considerably less than is said now. Where the difference came from, it's unclear to me, but it's clear to me that everyone who lobbies for health, as soon as they feel that money can be poured into health care, they'll start trying a lot harder. And to justify all the costs in health care is much easier than working on the above-mentioned efficiency. It's all on the table. Health service earned the $30 billion mentioned by the previous speakers. Again, in health care as the only system that lives on systems that live on public budgets, it has increased quite significantly over the last period of wages - about 6 billion per year. He continued technological development as documented in the development of oncological and neurological centres in recent years. Of course, health services had to make money on the VAT burden. I don't want to talk about how we've increased efficiency so it doesn't look like I'm praising our health activities here, but there's at least a few sentences to be said. We fine-tuned the pharmaceutical policy, suppressed corruption in purchases, motivated providers by payment decrees to look for reserves in both management and rational care provision. This is the 30 billion that should be missed in health care and not missed because its efficiency has increased significantly. Among other things, I must mention that the inefficiencies in the patient's behaviour also increase the low participation, which is in direct contradiction with the intention of complete liquidation of regulatory fees, as presented by the left-wing parties. On the other hand, it would be possible, in the context of the Constitutional Court's conclusions, to increase participation in order to reach a European standard. It would be possible to give more facts, and I really will not delay. Just as a memento, I will remind you that in such a difficult area of efficiency, chances were squandered in the 1990s, which lies in reasonably controlled competition. At that time, instead of gradually strengthening the facilities of medicine and economic success, they were in several waves, and this stretched up to the year 2000, health facilities were broadly and unnecessarily delayed where they were unsuccessful. Let us not repeat this, and let us give a chance to those who can do better, especially where the capacity of providers is sufficient. [[20.50 hours]] If the new government starts further steps to increase internal health efficiency, if it starts to prepare and implement them, and the possibilities beyond what has already been done are still a lot, I will be the first to support the increase in the flow of money to health, and the TOP 09 in this area will certainly not play the role of destructive opposition. But to do this at this time, when we have no guarantees that the system will continue to improve, when it is really just a pure addition of money, as unions, the Czech Medical Chamber and other, money that are not intended to increase the efficiency of the system, would be a clear way back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u11	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. I'll ask my colleague. I'm sick of waiting. I have two factual points here. First of all, with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr President of the Senate, Prime Minister and members of the Government, colleagues, allow me to respond very briefly to the previous speeches. We're listening to the health and health system here, and I don't know what state policies, but we're dealing with here today on this point, as you read on the board, legal measures. This is a situation that needs to be dealt with immediately, and it doesn't matter about the system that has been broken down in the past, then built as inefficiently as it is, and now we're trying to solve it. We have replaced the accounting deficit with internal debt because the state has reduced the deficit by having all the reserves of health insurance companies exhausted, and today we are in a situation that health insurance companies pay by being in secondary insolvency as well as by providers and threatening not to supply suppliers with both medicines and medical devices. The situation is very serious, and I therefore consider the Government's step to take this path of legal action to be justified, because it turns back the disruption in a number of regions, including your regions, my fellow Members, in a situation which we would have to deal with with with with some extraordinary means. I want to say that, on average, a state insured person pays about 30% of what he uses on average. The CFI pays about 50 per cent of what it uses on average. And it's all at the expense of employees who pay so much from public health insurance that they have to solidarity with the state insured people and self-employed people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u13	Mr. Colleague, your time for a point of order has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u14	So that's basically all I wanted to say - that it's a slight settlement of the injustice that brings the system into deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Soňa Marková. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would react briefly to my previous speaker only in that I was actually very surprised that the former minister, who at least twice submitted a proposal to increase payments to the state insured of the previous government, is now talking very vehemently about the fact that he is against it. So that's one thing that really surprised me. The second thing is that every VAT increase of 1% means less than 5 billion for health care. crowns a year. That's the money the system really lacks. One last thing. Effectiveness in the presentation of TOP 09 and other right-wing parties means what's happening here right now. Hospitals in the county are pre-collapse. Everyone here from individual regions, you know how much county hospitals have to finance. In the Hradec Králové Region, from which we are both with the previous speaker, that is 300 miles. CZK, which the Region must finance in order to ensure the necessary health care. Talking about efficiency at the expense of patients seems at least immoral!
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u17	Thank you, Mrs Sona Marková, for keeping the time. Mr. Stanjura has the floor. A point of fact, Mr. Colleague? Okay, thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u18	A brief comment on the last two factual comments made by the Communists. First of all, regional hospitals are run by socialists and communists. If you're talking about the poor efficiency of these hospitals, look who's responsible for them. Two. If you look at which hospitals have problems, compare them. There are hospitals that can manage, and there are hospitals that can't. And when my colleague from Opava, Mr Opálka, names here how much an employee, self-employed, civil servant, pays very much, I don't know if he deliberately or unintentionally forgets how much employers pay, how much employers pay for their employees. [[unintelligible]] You haven't talked about this at all, and we should also talk about this when we talk about how much we contribute to the overall public health finances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u19	Thank you for keeping time. With a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. [[Mr Kalousek prefers Mr Kováčik.]] Thank you, so the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik and then colleague Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u20	I thank my colleague Kalousek for his priority. Don't worry, colleague, I'll pay you back. Now, what the colleague, the former President and the current President of the ODS, has said about the situation in the regions. After all, we all know how it was when the right-wing government was supposed to release the crown to the left-wing regions. That was a lot of twist, and I think that's the impact. But as much as the health sector has done, what the right-wing government has done is an increase in value added tax. Very well here it was noted that each percentage is 5 billion. koruna minus, that means every percentage that is now being reduced to medicines and medical supplies and other things that are being used in the health sector will now be reduced - and we believe that we will get into this discussion about reducing VAT on these things - so it will mean a correction of the situation. Payment for state insured people, that's settled. I'm just reminding you that if we do what we do to permanently abolish the immoral health and social security charges, we'd also be adding some of that crown to compensate for the hole in the medical finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Miroslav Kalousek has the floor on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have no doubt you'll give it back to me, Mr. Chairman. Medical aids as well as baby diapers do not allow us the primary right to apply to the 6th Directive of the European Union to lower rates, so I don't think that's gonna work. But if Dr. Opálka argued with justice and solidarity, I would like to offer my left-minded colleagues one look. If the health system is dominantly funded from health insurance, there is a high degree of solidarity, because the more we earn, the more we pay, while if the ratio is more balanced by payment to state insured people, which is a significant budget item increasing the state budget deficit, it affects the weakest and the poorest. With each increase in payment for state insurance, we reduce solidarity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u23	I thank Mr Kalousek. One more factual comment by Miroslav Opálka. Then MP Jaromír Krákora. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u24	Okay. I would like to respond to two issues - what the employee pays and what the employer pays. If we take this ad absurdum, then the employer pays everything because he buys the workforce, and the employee pays the taxes for the payment that the employer pays on a super gross wage for him. That's the first point. As far as the point of solidarity and justice is concerned, that is, of course, a right-wing and left-wing concept. I don't think we'll meet here. The point is, in politics, we're always looking for some solid weight, so we're here to jump in, that we're not going to go to any extreme. And when we were called upon to take an example from abroad, I think that, especially in this area, the examples that stand far beyond our solution will overwhelm them. Surprisingly, citizens are happier there, and even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u25	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek. Now, Mr Krákora, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, I'm only a brief one. I think I'm gonna take this a little bit from the other end, that the changes the Senate is proposing to us here, or the legal provisions of the government discussed in the Senate, I think we should thank you for that, because the fact that the health sector has gotten into the kind of crisis that it is, of course, the guilt of us sitting here, too, because if... Let me put it this way. The government and the Senate secured - or delayed the health crisis, but they did what they could for their short term, especially the government. But if we don't make these systemic changes here, next year, and that's going to be from the middle of the year, we're going to talk about health, but this is going to be a much, much worse situation. That's what I want us to realize and do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u27	I thank Mr Krákor, Mr Pavel Plzák, on a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u28	Dear Vice-President, dear fellow Members, I had no intention of speaking in the first place, but when I heard all this talk about efficiency... Please, how do you want to assess the efficiency of the management of individual medical facilities when we're not - and I'm an employee of the county hospital - when we're not paid for the same work anyway? Here, the basic rate for hospitals is different and varies by up to 100 percent. First, let's set the rules, as the Constitutional Court has just said, that we should all be paid the same job, and then we can tell someone to get out of the system that they're inefficient and that they're miserable. And where is the limit of efficiency, please tell me. So how much do we want to put on our heads in dollars? After all, we have 7.5 percent of GDP, the Holanďan have 5.5 percent, we give 300 billion, but the Holanďan have 900 billion. Let's determine how far you want to push health care in the efficiency you want to force these people to do. Just to say, the difference between county hospitals on salary, like nurses, is five to ten grand, you know. And I'm curious to see how the system compares when we all have to be paid for the same care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u29	Thank you. And now we are going back to a normal debate. Mr Rostislav Vyzula, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Bendl, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u30	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, President of the Senate and Prime Minister. I didn't think I'd get to the debate at all, because the actual remarks were overwhelmed. I would just like to start by saying that when it comes to efficiency, I have to agree with a number of comments that have been made here, but at the same time I would recommend those who are a little out of reality if they got to a normal hospital or medical facility, but like normal people. Not as Members, ministers or other officials. It's a little different than you imagine, and it's probably best, as I sensed from this discussion that we're going to have a lot of talk about health. I would like to support the proposal for a legal measure of the Senate amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on universal health insurance insurance insurance, on just a few points, because most things have been said. I think there's one thing we need to realize. There are 10.5 million people in our Republic, and about 6 million people pay the state health insurance. Of these state insured persons, VZP has more than 3.5 million and the second two largest insurance companies, Česká průmyslní a Pojišťovna Ministry of Interior, 700 thousand insured persons. National health insurance workers include pensioners, children, unemployed, students, mothers on maternity leave. Six million is really a large number of people. As has been said here, our health services have been getting into financial trouble in recent years and it is because of the ageing of our populations. That's for sure. We have more modern and therefore often more expensive methods of diagnosis and treatment. The former Minister Heger spoke of a payment decree, but the harsh conditions that were set this year to all medical facilities have caused them great problems. But, of course, the increase in VAT and the impact of the economic crisis over the last five years have a certain share. Of course, funding problems could have been expected earlier. They happen this year because the existing reserves of insurance companies have run out. In a year, the resort consumes around CZK 290 billion. Most, over CZK 220 billion, are covered by the collection of health insurance, the rest is money from regions, cities and patient payments. This amount appears to be insufficient for this year because, as has been said, an eight-billion-dollar drop is expected. And VZP participates in this amount of CZK 5.6 billion. It has already been noted that, since 2010, the payment for state insured persons has been audited for the last time in 2009 with effect from 1 January 2010. The previous government has completely ignored the valorisation and, as a result, we have a situation that needs to be addressed right now. The proposed legal measures will mitigate the urgency of the situation. We are aware of this, and it has been said repeatedly here that the overall problem of financing our health care needs to be resolved somehow. Systemically solved. It won't be easy, and it's likely that changes will be painful. But they will have to happen so that the system is funded and, at the same time, high-quality, modern, efficient, as we all certainly want it to be. We are currently spending approximately CZK 300 billion, as I said. Is this amount sufficient? Many say yes, but when we look around, in Austria it is CZK 500 billion to 8.5 million, and then in the Netherlands, which has been repeatedly mentioned in the past, it is CZK 900 billion to almost 17 million. The amount mentioned is changed from CZK 723 to CZK 787 per person and month from 1 January 2014. So it's 64 crowns. Some of you can say, "Why isn't it 65?" Why isn't it 63? I see it as the art of what the current government could get out of the budget. I believe that the increase in public health insurance for state insured persons is an urgent matter and must be temporarily addressed at least by this measure. In the event of non-acceptance, it is possible that a number of health establishments will be insolvent and the quality of treatment will be reduced. We are in a similar situation as when a patient or doctor ignores the symptoms of cancer for a long time until the disease reaches a stage where it cannot be cured or suspended. I believe our health care isn't that far away. But the problems that are now emerging need to be addressed now and not put them off. Therefore, I recommend that the legal measure be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u31	I thank Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will take the floor and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the last significant increase in payments for state insured persons took place in 2006. At that time, the loss of VZP was less than 10 billion crowns. At that time, a draft law on public health insurance, which increased payments by 16 percent, entered the Senate. That's when Senator Julínek came forward and suggested an increase of another 9 percent. [[21.10 hours]] So we're going to jump up the payments by 25 percent. This measure, which was adopted in 2006, subsequently with a payment decree, which was very restrictive, resulted in an increase in the income of health insurance companies so that at the end of 2008, the surplus of health insurance companies was CZK 40 billion. And these funds, which were in health insurance companies, were to be the property of transformed and later privatized health insurance companies, according to the laws that were prepared at that time. Those reserves have been exhausted over the years. A number of measures were taken between 2006 and 2013 which increased the costs of health establishments and caused these reserves to run out. This measure, which we have here today, is the measure that was the first in the Janota package to increase payments for state insured persons, and it is a necessary measure because the system's reserves have been exhausted. If we want to talk about the efficiency of the system, then the system must be transparent, and it is not. Contracts are private, secret, and price arrangements. Then it must be clear that payments to all healthcare institutions must be unified. It is also not currently. And then there must be closure of the money lines, which unfortunately are large in this system and are draining significant funds. As long as these conditions are not met, the health care system must be constantly replenished and payments for state insured persons will constantly have to be increased. It is therefore necessary to approve this measure at present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u33	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Petr Bendl has the floor and Minister Holcát will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to perform either, my colleagues, but I was provoked by this debate about efficiency and so on. Because many of you here once voted against us, once as the commanders, who got from the state and the social democratic government into the wine of an over-indebted hospital, and then we sat up here and asked the Chamber of Deputies that at least one of the captains here might be able to get off with the problems that concerned exactly regional hospitals and hospitals in general, and then you would not have allowed us to have this debate and perhaps we would have gone on. Because there's a lot of inequality in the financing of medical facilities. You left us like the left then, and you said, just worry about it, show us what you can do. We in Central Bohemia received medical facilities with a debt of approximately 780 million crowns, which might not be such a tragedy given the ability of the Central Bohemia Region in the past, not already, to pay some debts. We debt high schools that were overdebted and that were transferred to us by the state at the time, and we were also prepared to dedebt regional hospitals. But what was more trouble, and that was in 2004, I note when the economic situation in the Czech Republic was different in order, so we got health care facilities in a situation where approximately 30 million crowns per month fell into debt. They fell into debt monthly. We were forced to take some measures, and we did not have the instruments mentioned here in our hands. Increasing payments because the Treasury can carry everything, etc. We had to take some unpopular measures that the left criticized. I remember David Rath, who said what everything bad and criminal we do in the Central Bohemia Region, and now I will not do foul to remind myself of some of the current things that are happening in Central Bohemia. Let me remind you of the fact that the hospital eventually managed to get into black numbers. First of all. Second, and that's the debate about efficiency. Hospitals that the Central Bohemia Region privatized and are in private hands are better off than state hospitals. They have it hard, that's true, because there are unequal conditions. That's something we've been talking about. Not all medical institutions receive the same amount of money for the same performance. The DRG system was counting on these payments to be drawn closer gradually, so that the unequal conditions - for those of you who don't know the details, in a layman's way, simply for gallbladder surgery the Prague hospital will get, I will say approx., please don't hit me, I'll just say 60 grand in order and Central Bohemia 30. These are things that must gradually start to change. This situation is there. I am aware of the specifics and specialized workplaces in Prague, which must be taken into account, that is certainly true, but those hospitals were in black numbers. Private hospitals manage well even under uneven conditions of funding in health care. What's going on here, and I understand Prime Minister Rusnok's government, who doesn't want to bite a bitter apple, especially after the Zemanovec failed in the election. And why would they bother each other? So I'm going to suggest, "Pill the money." Mom, Dad, we're out of money, send more. I also understand the voices of the left in this House, which say, Please refill, then we will come up with a measure. As a rule, measures that will be related to reaching into the pockets of those who earn, they pull it because the state doesn't have any money, so all those who work and pay taxes are needed - and watch out for the self-employed!, I have also heard that now. After all, from the mouth of one High Representative of the political party, I suspect social democracy, it was the parasites that had to be prepared for, so it was said here a moment ago from a fellow Member of the Chamber of Deputies. That, I am convinced, is simply no way for a right - minded person. If there's anyone here who thinks right-handedly, he can't raise his hand for this proposal because he should be asking for some sort of system solution that won't get us in the same situation next year that he'll be -- mom, we've run out, send more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u35	I thank Mr Bendl, and I will change the rankings. First of all, I have factual points, three of them. Mr. Petr Kořenko, that's the first one. I demand that he take the floor. Then Mr. Igor Nykl and Josef Nekl wish to speak. I ask Mr. Petr Kořenko to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u36	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just talking about what I've heard here and the mismanagement hospitals. I would rather ask: Do you think, and if I forget that many lucrative care has gone to private hospitals and those regional ones have remained what they have to ensure in that region that every year when the decree changes that you can plan for a long time? If you make a plan and you don't know what they're gonna change, or what they're gonna see in six months? Then I ask you: If you prepare a financial plan and there is an increased VAT rate, where the items will be reassigned, and it will do so in the hospital's budget of 7 million in a year, do you think that the budget will not record it? Do you think that as entrepreneurs, when you get a bill for 9 to 10 months, some hospitals don't have a closed year 2011 that you can come out of this framework and secure your financial needs if you don't know what happened in the reference period? It's just for you who don't know - for 2013 the reference period is 2011. And then one more comment. Small insurance companies, if you do not sign the amendment in general because you have the opportunity to negotiate, should proceed according to the decree. They're not moving on. They don't want to go for it. So if the basic rules in this state don't apply and legal standards don't apply, then, of course, health isn't going anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u37	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. I ask Mr Igor Nykl to make his point of order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u38	Good evening, Mr President. I feel as if some of those speakers, as Mr Bendl, do not understand this. We're not dealing with health reform here. We have health care in the hardest crisis she's ever been in. I come to Parliament from health care. I know what it looks like. He's in the worst crisis, he's broken. VZP has the biggest debt. We know there's a third of hospitals at risk of collapse. We also know that the payment decree is declared unconstitutional, which is a huge problem. And now we're doing first aid. Maybe we're saving something that might be able to save a little bit, we want to inject it. And then, sometimes, health reform begins. It's completely unnecessary to interpret theories here. But this is a necessary step for us to even bounce off somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u39	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. Mr Josef Nekl will take the floor. That's the last point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Radim Fiala will be prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Bendl's speech because it seems to me that what is happening around Prague may not be true in other parts of the Republic. I'll give you one example of how well it's done in private hospitals. In our Olomouc Region there is a private hospital in the district town of Jeseník. At present, it is in such a situation that the only solution to provide citizens with at least basic care is to ask the Ministry of Finance for expropriation for remuneration and to transfer this hospital back either to the state or to the county. This solution is already in session, the Minister knows something about it. I suppose the hospital will soon ask the Treasury for expropriation for remuneration so that the care can be secured there. So not all private hospitals are able to work as Mr Bendl spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u41	I thank Mr Nekl for his time. With priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala, President of the Úsvit Club, will prepare his colleague Běhounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, the argument that health needs help, we understand and we feel very strongly. The increase in payment for state insured persons should be an emergency circle. I certainly understand the arguments about the impact of an increase in VAT on the price of medical care. Similarly, the weakening of the koruna exchange rate by the Czech National Bank will have a bad impact on the management of health facilities. All this is a clear report for the Czech taxpayer. The message is pay! Before we raise our hands, I'd like to remind you of two media appearances by the CEOs of the General Health Insurance Company. Scene one, Radiožurnál, former director of VZP Horák - quote: "We make electronic auctions for medicines that are only used in hospitals. There is a price negotiation, and in some cases the prices are falling by 80 per cent. That means, instead of the cure costing a hundred, it costs 20 crowns. There is similar potential in a number of medicines. And if we were to get the competences that are now only a few dozen preparations in that hospital care, like medical supplies that cost tens of billions of crowns, there would be huge savings. Anyway, it's about the drugs that aren't just for hospital use." Scene two, short, Euro magazine, Director of the Kabátek - I quote: "For example, in the field of medical devices or medicines, we could reduce cost prices by means of an auction. " Dear colleagues, colleagues, public health does not need rescue circles. We need, above all, to force responsiblely manage public funds and we need to compensate for the good and bad situation of the General Health Insurance Corporation and other health insurance companies. If we don't, we'll continue to accept taxpayers' money and send billions into a black hole. If we don't, we have no right to ask people for more money. Czech health services are not free. We've guaranteed people that if they pay solidly and through the state, it'll just be better for them. At the meeting of the Dawn Assembly, we decided to support the increase in payment - with teeth clenched. Only in view of the possible acute effects of worsening access to healthcare for citizens. Unfortunately, we are in a situation today where health, people's lives, and the social situation of health workers are a reliable hostage to a large business with public funds, as evidenced by the media speeches presented by the directors of the General Health Insurance Corporation. We have two options. Either we change it, or we keep playing theater and wire people's money. Our political movement will prepare and also constructively support proposals that will bring greater efficiency, accountability and transparency to the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u43	Thank you to President Radim Fial. The words will be taken by Mr Jiří Běhounek, the last one entered into the debate. After him, Minister Holcát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u44	Mr Vice-President, Members of the Government, Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I have been in this situation for ten years and I must say that I have experienced everything. What has fallen here has been said a hundred times. We don't want to hear what the real situation is. There is a health crisis and, above all, there is a hospital crisis. Remember, we collect insurance premiums, they manage insurance companies, but the Ministry decides on payments and how to deal with them. The Ministry, which sets out the payment decree. And here you've heard how many crowns have run out of it, how it went, what everything's been going on here. And if unpredictable expenses, as has finally been said here, are unpredictable revenues, we cannot have a different decree every year. Because look what happened in 2013. Hospitals in the regions, but make no mistake, even faculty. I'll make a public statement here that the hospital has a big problem at Anna John's. Anny, there's a big problem with Bulovka Hospital. So, please, let's just say that what the government has prepared here is approved by the Senate is a stabilization measure because the General Health Insurance Company is in a very difficult situation. And the General Health Insurance Company paid according to the payment notices. So if she had 10 billion in her account in 2010, it was likely that during the payment decrees and over the years that money was exhausted. So I am of the opinion that the approval of this measure is a fundamental step towards making sure that, after the fight that Minister Holcát will now have to fight, a payment decree is prepared that brings the basic rates closer to the situation and, eventually, the payments that are from insurance companies other than general health will be even. When it comes to the management of individual hospitals, I'm not going to extend it anymore. Please, yes, let's publish the contracts. I wonder which medical facility will be happy about it. I don't think the county medical centers are gonna have a problem with that. I'm not sure private facilities will have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u45	Thank you, Mr Běhounka. And since Minister Holcát asked for the floor at the end of the debate, I will leave him alone for a while. Mr Jaroslav Zavadil has applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u46	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, gentlemen and all of you here. I admit you'd almost make me cry when I heard all that talk about how pretty the health service was, how well it worked. You know well what we have said to each other on the Council of Economic and Social Agreements. But I confess that what we all know about the reserves that have been exhausted, how the avalanche of the revenues we stole from here in this House triggered Topolánek's backpack - about 100 billion crowns! Perhaps many people don't know that! By adjusting the taxes that took place, whether it was a progression, whether it was a corporate tax issue, whether it were ceilings, whether it were all these things. About 100 billion crowns, that's what we've cheated on. So be it. But if someone today says it is necessary to pour, it must also be said that something has spilled and that it has spilled in a completely different way! That it was poured out by the dépéháček we were talking about, it was about 10 billion. That's the first point. Why was it a depeche? To save the pension reform, which ends as it ends, which is a senseless reform with a second pillar. And I could go on like this! And we've called on you employers to resign several times. Because the health services got into a situation that was unbearable. And the health crisis today is that we're on Titanik -
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u47	I must warn you, Mr President, that you can only address other colleagues through me or through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u48	I apologize, therefore, through the President I address you. We feel like a Titanik with a lot of holes, and instead of clogging them, we're just opening them up. And I think if there's anything that can be done at this stage right now, and if it's possible for us to clog these holes and keep Titanic from sinking, it's really what the government of Jiří Rusnok was preparing. And let us really go, let us approve of the legal measures that affect this, because otherwise the crisis will deepen and it will get even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u49	I thank Mr Zavadil and now the Minister of Health Holcát will take the last words in the debate before I close it and ask for final words. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u50	Mr President, Members, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief, maybe even in my favor. Thank you for your suggestions, and I hope that I also thank you for approving the legal measure. The reason is simple. We all want to be healthy. We want to have healthy relatives, we want to be treated with the best methods, maybe even the most expensive. Let's face it. That's what you want. We're dealing with a real crisis. We have made such a cross-section, it mainly concerns hospitals, not only the state but also the regional ones, as has been said here, but also the private ones. That was also said here. Today, one third of hospitals are under liquidity 1, which means they have a problem with payouts, purchases of goods, funds, and rolls. That's right. One third is about 1 to 1.5. That means they're kind of on edge. And the others, one third, are stable in some way. She touched them in her own way this year's decree. Of course, there are a number of possible things, somewhere bad management, inefficiency, etc. I guess you're gonna have to deal with all this. I've got a lot of impulses, but as a minister, I don't think I'm gonna use them anymore. But you will. You guys are gonna figure out what you're gonna do with the fees, what you're gonna do with the excesses, if they're even gonna be, if it's worth it. There was a need to valorize payments for state insured persons, etc. What is essential to me and what must appear and I beg you: the Ministry and, in turn, you do not have an overview of what is going on with public health insurance. We're talking about transparency, and you can't imagine how hard it was for us to get data from small hospitals, small facilities, we don't have it from private people. It's public health insurance, and we should have a concept of what's happening to them. For example, we needed it for modulation and modeling, what would happen if we issued a decree for 2014. It was clear here that payments should be unified. We tried to do it in this decree, we tried not to take any of the segments off financially, they're even. If you do not approve of legal measures, we will have to change this decree and all segments and hospitals will be in a certain deficit against 2012 and 2013. That's a danger. I have to say, for the budget as planned, 4.7 billion. for next year plus 800 miles. This year, the next decree is built and health plans are also built. I can't imagine the chaos that would have been created if there hadn't been approval. It will be enough when you talk about the fees that today in global is 5.5 billion. Crowns. It's clear that medicine is evolving. He's going very far ahead. And I always get the motto that the health department doesn't quite make it. We currently have new methods of treatment, and even you, if you had patients with multiple sclerosis or a child with arthritis or if you had a cancer patient at home, you would also want them to be treated with a new biological treatment. That's very expensive. And maybe by next year, we're thinking of increasing one to one and a half billion. And we think it's worth investing in this health. Thank you for your attention and I hope and I ask that this legal measure be supported by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u51	I thank the Minister of Health Holcát and yet, although I had the will to conclude the debate, I cannot, because two Members are enrolled in the debate on a factual point. First, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u52	Sorry, I don't want to hold up any longer. But after all, I am provoked to a factual question against Mr Zavadil. He said how we'd seal a hole or perhaps a hole in Titanic from voting for this measure. Please, let's imagine, we're here to look after the health of public budgets. The state budget is one segment of public budgets in a volume of about 1000 billion. Public health insurance is the second segment of public budgets of around 240 billion. And now that we vote it out, we're going to do nothing but take about 5 billion out of one segment. - which we don't have, we're going to have to borrow, and there's going to be a bigger deficit -- we're going to put it in the other segment where it's going to be about 5 billion. a minor deficit. And at the end, it's going to be exactly the same deficit. We didn't clog a hole. We just spilled 5 billion from one lock of the Titanic. The other chamber and the holes are exactly the same. Okay, public health insurance is subject to infinitely stricter conditions, so it's convenient for the populists of the less strict conditions to pour it into the tougher ones, because there's a way to deal with it. Please. But let's not call it sealing holes! It's just a waste of money through a black hole that doesn't shrink by a millimeter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u53	Thank you. The words will be taken by Mr Jan Volný, the last one entered into the debate on a factual point. I don't see the MP, so he's losing order, and if no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate and I'm asking for final words. President of the Senate Milan Štěch. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u54	I'll try to be very brief. I will respond to the last performer, Mr Kalousek. Well, when there were holes, he was in government for eight years, why didn't he clog the holes? And I consider the claim and simple populist use that there are holes in health care as an insult to the paramedics. And I know a lot of medical facilities where there's a lot of hours, they're not paid properly. A lot of doctors just stay with us because they like their patients. And with these words, I'd save money on black holes in health care. And if we do, let's use them, but let's say where. And I think the people who were in government should be able to tell where the holes are. If they were not interested, they should not use this argument cheaply as it is used here because it is too serious because it concerns human health. Mr. Svoboda spoke to me out of the blue. I also like it if we can enforce system bindings on, for example, wages, inflation. I'm sure the Association of Patients would like that. The providers will like it. The question is, would the governments like it? I don't think any government would like that. And again, why hasn't it come true in the last few years? After all, there were times when the environment was quite acceptable, and it would certainly be supported. And what surprised me most was Mr. Exministra and Mr. Heger's speech. When he was the minister, the money was needed! Because when she was in Top 09, she'd be responsible for the money! When a new government is being prepared here that hasn't started yet, the government will be irresponsible and the money will be spent irresponsiblely, and that's why we're not putting it there. [[21.40 hours]] If this is how we want to reform health care, I don't think we'll ever do it, because it's de facto full of prejudice and ideological floscules. And I really wish it hadn't gone that way. I'm not performing anymore. It makes me sad because I consider the health issue very serious, and I wish you all had a wise decision. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-014-017.u55	I thank the President of the Senate for the final vote. I'm asking the Prime Minister... The Prime Minister is not interested in the final word, so we will proceed to the vote on the legal measure. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'm zagongovat have to call in my coworkers from the lobby. The motion for a resolution is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies shall approve, in accordance with Rule 33 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure. 5 Constitution of the Czech Republic legal measures of the Senate No. 342/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on universal health insurance premiums, as amended.' I've started voting order number 21. I'm asking who's up for it. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 21 of the 183 present for 139, against 28. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the legal measure has been approved. Thank you. I'm done with point 17. Proceeding with Point
