ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise I will ask you once again to take your seats in the hall, because I would like to inform you that on 3 December 2013, Mr Jan Sobotka gave up the mandate of Mr Jan Sobotka on the notary entry. For this reason, some constitutional steps need to be taken. One of them is the promise of a new Member. I ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Marek Benda to inform us now of the steps that this committee has taken and then to read the Constitution's prescribed promise, which the Member will put in my hands. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-001-999.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government in resignation, on 3 December 2013, a notary record was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies giving up the mandate of Mr Jan Sobotka. On that day Mr Sobotka's parliamentary mandate was terminated and the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was created to Mr Josef Kotta. At its third meeting on 3 December 2013, the mandate and immunity Committee adopted Resolution No 16 in which it stated that, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3 and 6 of the letter. (c) Law No 90/1995 Sb., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was terminated by Mr. Jan Sobotka and he stated that this vacant parliamentary mandate was followed by an alternate member, Mr. Josef Kott, who was appointed by a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 3 December 2013. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Josef Kott shall take a parliamentary oath. I ask the Member to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and, at the same time, I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to accept the pledge of a new Member. I ask you ladies and gentlemen to stand up. [[Members in the benches are rising. The President of PS leaves the chair's seat in front of the benches where the new Member stands.]] "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." [[Mr Kott confirms his promise by hand to the Chairman of the PS and by signature.]] Dear Member, congratulations. [[The Chairman of PS returns to the chair's seat.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-001-999.u3	Allow me to welcome Mr Josef Kott among us and wish him every success in his parliamentary work. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Černochová and Mrs Gabriela Pecková. I'll ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that, so I'm gonna put it to a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 1. It's registered 185, for 182, there was no one against it. I am of the opinion that we have designated Ms Černochová and Mrs Pecková as the verifiers of the second meeting. I've already informed you about your apologies. We will therefore now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the second meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I will only inform you that, on the basis of the decision of today's Gremia, I tell you that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we have items 16 and 27 on the agenda, which are the answers to written interpelations. [[10.10 hours]] Given that there will be a setting-up meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Committees on Thursday and our negotiations will be suspended, very likely if we agree and decide to do so, we will continue on Friday, so points 26 and 27 will automatically be eliminated. Then I ask you to cross them off in that case. Now, I beg you, if any of the Members wishes to speak on the agenda. I have here the application from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-001-999.u4	Good morning, Mr President, dear government, colleagues. Yesterday the Minister of Demission, a government that is in remission, a government that has no confidence, decided that we have two police presidents in the Czech Republic. Under normal circumstances, in the normal running of the Chamber of Deputies, we would suggest that the debate on this step be held at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Given that there will be set-up meetings of the various committees tomorrow, I would like to ask the members or future members to be elected in a moment, the Security Committee will be elected to deal with the situation immediately and, if necessary, to come to plenary with some recommendation or some debate. I am taking advantage of this moment, I say that under normal circumstances we would suggest that we have such a serious matter where, in our view, the entire police force is being compromised by the fact that we have two police presidents, given that a new government is being formed, I am convinced and my colleagues too, that it has been delayed and that the situation should be dealt with by a new government, a new minister or a new Home Secretary, so I would really ask those of you who will sit in the Security Committee to deal with this without delay after you have elected your chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-001-999.u5	Thank you. That was the chairman of the ODS Club. If there are no other applications and the President does not propose a new item, we would therefore proceed to the vote on the agenda of the second meeting as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 2, registered is 189 colleagues and colleagues, for 184, against no one. I note that we have approved the agenda for the second meeting and we can start discussing individual points. So I'm opening up a discussion point.
