ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-003-002.u1	2. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies I ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to take the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-003-002.u2	Well, thank you again, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Member of the Government, Members, Members. I'm sorry we weren't successful this morning, that things got a little stuck. The next point I have prepared for you is more or less formal, but it must and should pass through the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I believe there will be no setback, and I will try to be as brief and as quick as I can. This item concerns the proposal for a change in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll let you know it's two resignations. First of all, on the resignation of a Member of Jaroslava Jermanová from the ANO 2011 movement to membership and as a verifier of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. Logically, this is because the colleague became Vice-President. The second resignation was delivered from the club ČSSD. It is the resignation of Mr Milan Chovanec to membership of the mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies. I note that, within the prescribed period, the parliamentary clubs have submitted nominations, i.e. the exchange of the two names mentioned. The election committee is nominated by Mrs Radka Maxová, from YES 2011, to the mandate and immunity committee, nominated by Mr Stanislav Huml's social democracy. A brief statement on the Rules of Procedure. Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure, as amended, provides that amendments to the designated bodies and commissions can only be made with the consent of the Chamber of Deputies. The election shall be held in a majority manner. I will remind you that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a way of voting. Since the election of committees, committees and delegations has always taken place by public vote, I suggest that, even in these two cases - as I said, this is more or less a formality - we also proceed to the vote by means of public voting equipment. I therefore recommend that, after the debate on the proposed candidates, the House, first of all, with one vote, state the resignation of both Members, I repeat, my colleague Jermanová and my fellow Chovanec, and then the Chamber of Deputies should elect a new member of the electoral committee and a new member of the mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies, as proposed by their parliamentary clubs. Here, too, I propose a public election using an en bloc voting device. I now ask the President to open the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-04-ps2013-002-01-003-002.u3	Yes, thank you. This is what I do and open the debate. I will ask if there are applications for the debate. I don't see any, I'm done with the debate. Since the President of the Election Commission has already read the resolution, I will only ask if there is an agreement that we would, first, vote by means of a voting instrument and that we would resolve the matter with two votes. Together, we would state resignations, and we would vote together. Is there any objection to this procedure? It's not like that. If you don't mind, I'll begin the vote on The Chamber of Deputies notes the resignation of the two members of the relevant committees. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 3. It's registered 190, 177, no one. So we have stated that the Members concerned have resigned. We would therefore now vote that the Chamber of Deputies will vote for their posts as appointed Members. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is number four. It's registered 190, for 179, against no one. This resolution has also been adopted. I note that we have exhausted this point, and I am done discussing point 2 and thank you to the President of the Election Commission. Opening point number
