ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I ask you to take your seats in the Chamber. Initiating the third day of the adjourned 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. So far, Mr. Bezecný Reward Card Number 1. I don't register any more requests for a replacement card. At the same time, I would like to tell you that these Members - and this is in alphabetical order: Mr Adam - health reasons, Mr Adamec without giving any reason, Mr Antonín - working reasons, Mr Babiš - family reasons, Mr Benešík - working grounds, Mr Birke without giving reason, Mrs Dobešová - family reasons, Mr Hájek - health reasons, Mr Hašek - working reasons, Mrs Chalánková - health reasons, Mrs Kailová - health reasons, Mr Kádner - working reasons, Mrs Konečná - working reasons, Mrs Nováková - working reasons, Mrs Nykl - working reasons, Mrs Nytrová - working reasons, Mrs Nytrová - health reasons, Mr Pospíšil - personal reasons, Mr Seďa - working reasons, Mr Šincl - personal reasons, Mr Toufar - personal reasons, Mr Zimola - working reasons. The Prime Minister Rusnok apologizes from the members of the government for working reasons, Minister of Foreign Affairs Kohout on a foreign trip, Minister Lukl - working reasons and Minister Toman - also a foreign trip. That's all the excuses. Before I open the debate on any applications for changes to the programme, I would like to ask you to consider the following procedure. Given that there has been an election of the chair of this committee on the mandate and immunity committee, I would suggest that this committee be able to work without delay to include paragraph 40 as the first item in today's session, which is a proposal to confirm the chair of the committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Specifically, it would be a mandate committee and an immune committee. At the same time, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Organising Committee, which recommends the Chamber of Deputies to include a new item in the agenda of the 4th meeting, which is a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Internal Agreement between representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union meeting within the Council on the financing of European Union assistance under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and on the allocation of financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories covered by the fourth part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union signed in Luxembourg on 24 June 2013, which is the House's press 27 at second reading. I would suggest this point as the second in the programme. I believe that both these points, both the confirmation of the chairman of the committee and the approval of this Treaty, are not a fundamental problem which would prevent us from focusing on what we have today, and that is the second reading of the state budget. I'll open the debate. Member and Chairman of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-000-999.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask for the inclusion on Thursday of the point of change in the House's bodies - Thursday morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-000-999.u3	Yes, we would have put it first, Mr President. Do you agree with that? [[Yes.]] Excellent. In addition to the debate on the draft programme? I don't see anyone. Before the vote, I will call my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. By voting, we would deal with these proposals. I guess we're gonna vote one by one because it's different things. The first vote would be to include paragraph 40 as the first item of today's day, which is a proposal to confirm the Chair of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll start voting number 80. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote, as I said, is 80. It's registered 143, for 140, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We would now vote on a new point. It is the long-named treaty - in short, House print number 27 at second reading. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? The vote is 81. It's logged in 148, 143. This proposal has also been adopted. We would now vote on President Faltýnek's proposal to include a new point for Thursday at 9 o'clock, and that would be a point of change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll start the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 82. Registered is 152, for 147, versus 1. This proposal has also been adopted. I would also inform you that after these fixed points for today, i.e. after points 40 and 46, we would address paragraph 18, which is the budget at second reading, and we would discuss further points according to the approved agenda. An overview of the points left is given to you on the bench. That's all I have at this stage. If there are no objections or if there are no applications with priority rights, then I would open point number
