ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u1	18. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 /German press 6/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government of the Press, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Jan Fischer will state. Before I give him the floor, so that we can clear up the applications, because I saw that some of you are properly submitting applications there at the table on the left, some of them, as was a good practice in the past period, bring them here to me, so I would ask that Members Stanjura, Černochová, Zahradník and Fiala, all four of them in the general debate be included in the list. Well, that's the thing. And now there is nothing to prevent the Minister of Finance from taking the floor and presenting this press at second reading. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u2	Mr President, Members, the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for next year has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament at first reading. Last week, the draft state budget was discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank all the gesture committees for the rapid discussion of the various chapters of the state budget. I know it was not easy at that pace, and although I already thanked the Committee on Budgets on Friday, I am happy to do it again. Thanks to him for the comprehensive discussion and processing of documents for second reading. I assume that amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting. In this context, I would like to point out that the General Treasury chapter has a budget of more than 140 billion. CZK contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment relating to the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoting. That is, the identification of the items that the amendment would concern. Second note or warning. The Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the minimum amount, the statutory minimum amount, the budgetary reserves, in the amount of 0,3 per cent of the total expenditure of the State budget. [[14.20 hours]] My duty in voting on individual amendments will be to carefully monitor the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve. The amendments, which would mean a reduction of the government's budgetary reserve below its legal minimum, are therefore unvoting. I will give my opinion on the proposed amendments when voting at third reading, as is the general practice. Madame Members, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u3	Thank you, Minister. By my decision, I ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered as press 6/2. I ask the rapporteur of this committee, the Member and the President of the budget committee of Václav Votava to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, government, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Budget Committee, which was adopted at the 4th meeting of 13 December 2013 on the Government's draft State Budget for 2014. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance and the report of the Chairman of the Committee and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament 1. Notes that all the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2014, as instructed by the Chamber of Deputies by its resolution number 29 of 6 December this year, and adopted their resolutions on them, with the exception of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which discussed Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and did not adopt the resolution on this chapter. 2. The Committee on Budgets takes note of the following proposals for accompanying resolutions from committees addressing the Government. - I'm sure you'll forgive me if I don't read them. You have them in a resolution that I'm sure you all got in time. 3. The Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2014, and on the Government Draft of the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2014 and with the Government Draft of the State Budget of the Czech Republic under the House Press 6, as amended by the approved amendments in Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution. 4. It empowers the President, the rapporteur, to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Which I just did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I will now open a detailed debate on the draft law. Applications on the board are already in line with applications submitted to various places in this House. So I will ask the President of the ODS Club, who has the right of priority to take the floor, after whom the President of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, and if there are no other priority rights, then the debate would continue as it is on the board. Prime Minister Stanjur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u6	Thank you. Mr President, my colleagues, my government in demise, I have placed here before me - so that we can all remember what the draft state budget looks like, the thickened one, 936 pages. I call it that, because today we're going to debate it, Thursday you're going to approve it by the votes of the government coalition, including the communists, that's the budget blind. We've been trying to read as hard as we can, and we don't have the chapter notebooks with us, which would certainly be higher, but I don't think I could take it here anymore. So I just want to remind you of the basics of the first reading. The proposed deficit of 112 billion. The trend is completely reversed, although economic growth is forecasted, there will be a higher deficit than in times of recession or stagnation. Record spending of the Czech Republic is planned, although we have heard many words about the investigation in the election campaigns. That time of discussion was really undignified for all of us. I have experience from the budget committee when we wanted more detailed information, so logically we got the answer: don't be angry, I don't have more detailed information, I have to ask the deputy, the department director, the department manager, we'll send it to you in writing. Yeah, well, that's nice of them to send it to us in writing, but the committees had to discuss it by 4:00 last Wednesday. So the committees somehow came to terms with it. According to my colleagues' reports, this has been done very equally in many committees in order to bring to the Committee a government coalition an amendment that has reached all the resolutions that the committees have been discussing, that is, those committees have, in principle, acted in vain, because the government majority on the Committee has basically changed all the chapters, that is, those committees have approved some expenditures, some revenue, so at least on the expenditure side today is different, you will read it in the press 6/2. So maybe you don't mind, it bothers us to vote blindly on the most important law of the year, we just don't want it and we don't like it. Take a look at the emphasis on people who will be leading the Czech Republic today or next time. The Prime Minister is missing, the future Prime Minister is missing, too. The Minister of Finance is here, there was no first reading on the Committee on Budgets, and the future Minister of Finance is missing. And it was said that the budget was the peak of Parliament's season and the most important law of the year. Well, we can see who's applying to this, how important it is or not. Now let me briefly comment on what the Committee on Budgets is presenting to you in this press 6/2. I must say that the promotion is going quite well, and the presentation, because I and the citizens have read that the budget committee has found savings of 5 billion. Kč. That's five billion. That savings of 1.5 billion. is for the Congress Centre, which the state buys, virtually. He's buying stock shares there, which means he's gonna have a State Congress Center, and the savings are that we paid for it this year, not next year. It means that when the government was preparing the budget, she put in a VAT of 1.5 billion, that it's no savings - I paid it yesterday, and I'm not paying it today, so I saved it today. So that's 1.5 billion. of the five, which, so-called spared the Committee on Budgets. And then there's savings, and real savings, virtually. moving, not saving, because we must not change the total expenditure that remains there, it is 3.5 billion. Kč. For three years since the opposition at the time, I have often heard harsh words here about blunt cuts, flat cuts, completely stupid cuts, that we are cutting everywhere in the same way so that the emerging coalition will transfer 3.5 billion. to the state budget, by taking everyone equally - virtually. Not all of them. It divided it into small and large budget chapters, a small budget chapter, if memory doesn't deceive me, it took 3%, in a large of about 6.5 percent. A significant difference against blunt area cuts from the last parliamentary term. So be it. That it saves 3.5 billion. from operating expenses, we certainly support, for the sake of clarity. I just had to give the comment to explain it. So it's more like an ambitious target - 3.5 billion. operating expenses. We heard in the election campaign, but even after the election, the words of tens of billions saved. If the government coalition actually saves operating expenses, it will have our support in this regard. Another amendment that has been passed is the amendment tabled by Mr Novotný, where I would like to criticise, in particular, the expenditure aspect, not the one directly, where it reduces expenditure. I read from the press and from the government coalition's statement that there will be an increase in pensions during 2014. Nevertheless, the government coalition on the Committee on Budgets votes to reduce the amount of pensions by about 700 million. Kč. This means that we can make it work, so one day we will cut down so that we can announce to the public: we are the ones who have increased it. [[14.30 hours]] Given the limited time available to the opposition as well - and unlike others we read it ourselves, we do not say that we will not read it, that we have people for it - so we have prepared our club together, four amendments that we think could find support across the Chamber of Deputies and across the political spectrum. First, a formality. It's House Document No 151. And I will try just a short comment and my colleagues who have prepared the various areas will then provide a more detailed explanation and justification in the discussion and we will ask together for the support of these proposals. Basically, I can call these four things spending on science and research, teacher's salaries, road repair money and social money for social services and active employment policy. We propose to strengthen the total expenditure for science and research so that the amount corresponds to the amount that it has decided and proposed by the previous government. It's about 1.3 billion. in three items for special-purpose grants by the Ministry of Education, for the Grant Agency and the Technical Agency. Secondly, we propose to increase teacher salaries by 1.5 billion, especially because of the fact that teachers' performance is increasing, because more children are coming to primary schools in particular than in previous years. Thirdly, we propose to increase the subsidy from national resources to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure by 2 billion. Each of us who sometimes ride the 1st class road, because there are regions where there are no motorways or a limited number of kilometres of highway, knows the state of the 1st class roads, and these are roads that belong to the state. Two billion is a demand at the very bottom of what the roads need. The last is the promotion of social services, active employment policies and the support of employers who employ people with disabilities. For social services, we propose to increase the amount by less than a billion to 7.2 billion. Crowns. For active employment policy - that is so magical. We have not yet been able to fully analyse the coalition agreement in detail, but it says: we will increase the resources for active employment policy. We agree. The government proposal before you reduces the amount of active employment policy against 2013. We believe that you will then support the proposal, because we are increasing it so that there is more money to be spent on retraining and community service. And the third item in this area is that we increase support for employers, for employers who employ people with disabilities or disadvantages, and actually to the level of 2013. We don't consider the cut right there. We propose to move expenses in the area of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs within the scope of the chapter, taking others from the government's budget reserve. Technically, I suggest that this be voted on only after the vote is taken on the draft budget committee, because it moves 5 billion. in the government's budgetary reserve, so that it is not decided in advance that this cannot be voted on, because we would get to 0,3 per cent of the expenditure. I have no doubt at least 1.5 billion. The entire Chamber of Deputies will support the expenses that have been incurred last year, and I have no doubt that the majority of Members will support the second part of the draft budget committee. And one more thing. I told you in the first reading. We have a bill from Mrs Jourová's workshop on the table, which says that there will be at least ten days between second and third reading. I'm curious about today's vote to shorten the deadline to 48 hours as it turns out. At the same time, there is a ban on stickers. I think we've done quite well. It's pretty illusionary to say by law that it can't be stickers when it's always over what the sticker is and what the sticker isn't. However, nothing against it. The Committee on Budgets smuggled the sticker into this bill. Imagine, we have on 19 December this year in the Act on the State Budget for 2014 to vote on the amendment of the Act, which was called the State Budget for 2013. It's nothing but a sticker. Once again, I am curious about how who will take the vote and how it will convince us that their proposal by the MP is very well and should be supported by all of us. Once again, I want to show a thickened version of the Czech budget, which is available from 27 November. They had it on the committees for three days, I think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u7	That was the chairman of the ODS Club. Just to be clear, you were talking about shortening the deadline to 48 hours. Section 106 - The third reading of the draft law on the State Budget in the first paragraph is clearly stated: The third reading of the draft law on the State Budget can be started at the earliest 48 hours after the end of the second reading, so we do not need to vote, it includes the Rules of Procedure. prosit, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, dear government, ladies and gentlemen. The theme of the state budget, of course, offers quite a wide range of options for discussions, but if we are disciplined, we will stick to the topics of first, second, third reading, that is, in the first reading, we are discussing the macroeconomic environment and the basic parameters that cannot then change, we are discussing priorities in the second reading, we are voting on the individual amendments that were tabled in the second reading if we wanted to change priorities. So I want to reassure you that I will really stick to the subject of second reading. I think that expert discussion, because expert discussion, this is second reading, has foreshadowed the professional discussion in an unprecedented way and defined two statements by one of my precious fellow Members from another parliamentary faction. The first statement, if you allow me to do a little paraphrase, is, "I want to be a finance minister, I don't even think about reading the budget, it has 900 pages of why I would read it." I think that is a statement that clearly defines how responsible and with what professional care we want, as those who are responsible to their constituents, to approach this draft as we want to discuss how we want to approve it. Perhaps the second statement would please most of all either Franz Kafka's buried or Cimrmanův's theater, and he sounded the whole first discussion, and it says: "We want to save money. We have promised our voters that we will save, and therefore we will approve higher spending." I'll admit I never understood that. I was hoping to find out during the second reading how, on the one hand, you can approve by 24 billion. higher than the necessary expenses and at the same time crediblely claim that I will be saving. I thought, now I'm surprised, they've approved by 24 billion. higher expenses, but at second reading somewhere saves 34, 42, 57. I was confronted with an amendment that not only the old routiner is laughing at, but I think it's also Elév. That against expenses blown over by 24 billion. It is suggested that 5 - 24 and 5 are different numbers, 5 is much less than 24, - that 5 billion. will be withdrawn by a blunt cut - I am used to the term blunt cuts, I have heard it not only from the opposition, but also from my Prime Minister, the former ODS Chairman - will be withdrawn, but it will not be spared. That it would be transferred to the government's budget reserve. That means there's no savings. If such an amendment, which the Committee on Budgets would accept and submit to the Chamber of Deputies, would actually be adopted - I firmly hope - that it does not, the Chamber of Deputies does not say: We do this 5 billion. We want to save money. The Chamber of Deputies says: We have these 5 billion. We want to give the government a blank check because we never want to hear from them again. We don't want to decide about them anymore, like the sovereign who's supposed to decide every crown. For the government's budgetary reserve is the amount that the government can decide without the Chamber of Deputies having anything to do with it. [[14.40 hours]] Therefore, budgetary rules also say that the government's budgetary reserve may be at least 0,3 of the total expenditure, which is about 3.5 billion. CZK, and no sane House - I repeat none - aware of its constitutional obligations will, of course, allow no government to inflate the government's budget reserve, even by just 100 million, on the contrary, in multiples, because in such a case it says nothing but: We do not want to have anything to do with it, we do not want to decide, we do not want to do the tasks that voters have put on us. We want this government to decide wisely, and we don't want to hear about it at all. We're gonna blow up the government's budget reserve and let them do whatever they want with it. That is the true meaning, that is the report of the amendment to the Government's budgetary reserve. It's not saving. First of all, it's not a five-billion-dollar savings, no way. Because 1.5 billion. the impact of state guarantees for the Congress Centre will be paid by the government - and this is a separate discussion, I do not want to talk about whether it is good or bad - will be paid by the government this year. When the government pays for it this year and it was budgeted for next year, it was logically to reduce the deficit. Calling it saving is a mockery of any creature who is able to think. So 1.5 billion. do not apply. You want to demonstrate publicly that you will save 3.5 billion. That's all you can save. To those 24 it's really funny compared to those fiery sentences that you came to this House to save. When you couldn't deal with the bloated 24 billion and you're down by about 3.5 billion. And you call it saving money, so we can't really want people to take it seriously. But if you want them to take at least the 3.5 billion, every crown good, I don't downplay it, every crown good savings. If you want them to take at least 3.5 billion seriously, you can't do that by increasing the government's budget reserve. And you, as Members of Parliament, are going to say the task and the authority, so we're going to give this money to the government and then we're not going to think about it anymore, and the government will deal with it somehow. The government's gonna figure it out, she's gonna spend it somehow. I've already made a bet on the subject in this House. And we can't let that happen. We are the Chamber of Deputies who tell the government what they can or cannot spend. So if we're serious about at least a tenth of what some of you were yelling about before the election, that at least that 3.5 billion, and that's not small money, we're gonna spend it on the taxpayers, so we can't put it in the government's budget reserve, no matter what he does with it, but we have to do it under Act No. 218/2000 Coll., within the framework of the Act on the budgetary rules of the Republic, to dispose of it differently and to make it another item of the state budget which will not allow the government without our consent, without our discretion and without discussion in the House, to deal with it freely, preferably in favour of subsidies to the agrifood complex. This is the first point and the prefixation of the first important amendment. I acknowledge that Members of the emerging government coalition have pushed through an amendment which believes that in some chapters it is possible to save money and that it is possible to transfer it somewhere. On the other hand, I point out that the worst idea is to transfer it to the government's budget reserve. Because with this step towards this amount, all Members lose any contact and leave only to the government what they will do with this amount. This means they give up their constitutional duties and give up their constitutional powers as a sovereign who is the only one to decide on such an amount. I would like to put forward a proposal that will allow this amount to be renamed and transferred elsewhere so that the Chamber of Deputies takes its position as sovereign over these, albeit modest, she does not give up money and does not hand it over to the government as a bianco check. So much for the first point, I think, very important. The second point relates to the priorities that have taken place on the various committees and resulted in the vote of the Committee on Budgets. There were real cuts - not cuts, they didn't cut because nothing was crossed out, it was given to the government as a bianco check. The cuts will take place if they do something different than putting it into the government's budget reserve. But there was a certain effort to make, at least cosmetic savings in operating expenses. However, the pursuit of those fundamental priorities within the relatively small area, which each government has in the field of optional expenditure, did not really take place. I very much ask you to look, these are open sources, the limits approved by the Government of the Czech Republic in June 2013 and the limits of the individual chapters you approve. There's a difference of 24 billion. Once again, the limits approved by the government in June 2013 were approved with the knowledge that this was an election year, and there was no extra shortage for any chapter. Yet what lies ahead of you now is expenditure, which means future debt, because we are borrowing it by 24 billion. more. And you're ready to raise your hand for that. So at least I ask you very much to look at what priorities you are reflecting there in the first place. Even if it's 24 billion. more than I think is necessary, so nearly 2 billion, about 1.6 billion, took away from science and research - and that is logically not the priority as it should be, is it? And almost the same amount was added to the operation of the Police of the Czech Republic. And twice as much money was added to the national subsidies to the agrifood complex in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. So if you had to translate it, what are our main political, budgetary priorities, it looks like we're a starving, backward country where we're killing each other on the street, and where the most important of all is to send money to the agrifood complex, then to the cops, and since we're being beaten by research knowledge, we need to cut those scientists down. This is what happened from June 2013 until you are ready to approve. That science and research were taken away and Agrofert was added and that it is interesting that in all the chapters there was savings in operating expenditure, in at least 2%, in a large 5%, but in the huge amount of national subsidies to the agrifood complex, there was no reserve or crown. Why? Because that's all the money for Agrofert. You don't realize the conflict of interest you're in? To me, it is largely human disappointment. [[14.50 hours]] I spent about 18 years in financial transfers of the state budget - science and research. Rectors. And I remember Professor Rais, I remember Professor Zlatuška. I remember people who actually fought for every crown for Czech science and research in universities. It is fantastic for me to watch the same rare colleagues today, colleagues in this House, are willing to raise their hand in Agrofert T-shirts for the money of the agrifood complex. But if science needs research, there's no mention of it. Here, I ask very much that we be aware of the concepts of budgetary priorities, namely the political priorities of the Czech Republic for its future competitiveness, and of the conflict of interests. And what is the conflict of interest permanently present in this House, which will be permanently present in this government. And that is the second part of my comment in the general debate, and that is the second part of the amendments that we are going to put forward. Rusnokův's government, even if it blew a budget of 24 billion, took science and research. I regard this as an extremely bad approach to budgetary priorities, to the future of the government. The fact that, as part of the investigation, members of the future government coalition were willing to transfer operational expenses to the government's budget reserve cosmically, that is, they said to the government, "So spend it on something else, on any other subsidy, for any other conflict of interest" is very bad. And the fact that they didn't meet in those places where the conflict of interest was evidently already present, I consider it even dangerous. If I am to conclude, we will put forward a few amendments. The savings you spend on saving, which will not be savings by approving the amending budget committee proposal, we will try to rename it so that it will be savings. Otherwise, it won't be a savings. And the second point is to appeal to your responsibility towards budgetary, i.e. political, competitiveness priorities. Science, research, innovation may be something you don't know in a year or two that was given less than needed. But we'll know in ten years, and then it'll be too late. And you're willing to sacrifice the greed of one huge agrifood conglomerate you ran for? That's not the point. I beg you to focus your attention on the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, not on the balance sheet of Agrofert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u9	This was the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Just pointing out that we are in a detailed debate. Of course, I respect the right to speak with priority rights and to speak in general, but if you refer to any amendments in your debate, I simply point out that proposals need to be formulated, put forward and refer to them in a detailed debate. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in addition to those with priority rights, all duly entered into a detailed debate should refer either to the amendment or to the proposal. If it's a factual remark, I'll put it in order because there's more than one. You've obviously aroused a great response by your performance, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Volný with a factual remark, then Mr Komárek with a factual remark. Then the chairman of Kalousek Club, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u10	Mr President, Government, fellow Members, I have once again found with horror today how, with Mr Kalousek, the state budget proposed by this government has been drastically reduced and narrowed down the view of the investigation, to cut by 24 billion within 14 days. We came to save and save. The year has 365 days and the investigation means that every day of this year is needed with the costs and with the money that we entrust to individual ministries, work economically and spend them where they are, and do not steal. If it was customary here to approve the budget and then close your eyes to how the money was spent and how it was stolen, then we're sorry. We'll be saving up all year, 365 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u11	Another factual one, Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u12	I'm not that big. Ladies and gentlemen, I have another request. I would like more speakers to honor the intelligence and attention of the other Members and not repeat some thesis five, six or seven times as Mr Kalousek, for example, the thesis on the bianco check or the terrible pier of Agrofert. Thank you, we'll save time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u13	Another factual one, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. After that, Mr. President of the club YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u14	Only very briefly with a factual remark. I think Mr Komárek's stupid performance does not need to be responded to. It's just that each of us has the right to speak on a subject that he considers appropriate. I understand Mr Freeman. We'll tell each other in a year, Mr. Ambassador, how much you've really saved in that year. I assure you, if you've approved one trillion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u15	Mr. Ambassador, you will tell yourself that through me, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u16	Through him. [[Laughter explosion in the hall]] You'll see that if you've approved one trillion 211 billion, that government will also spare you nothing at all. And I want to apologize to all of you. When I joined the debate, I was really convinced that I was reporting to the general debate, so I spoke in the context of the general debate. Excuse me, I didn't realize I was in the closet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u17	You have the right to do so with a priority vote. Mr Faltýnek is also factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I am terribly sorry, but I would like to ask Mr Kalousek through the President of the House, whom I still consider to be a very successful rhetoricalist, an intelligent man, an ex-boyfriend, and to what extent a successful finance minister. I only have one request: not to lie, not to fake, not to make it up. I assume we've all been reading the SAO's report since we've been here today. And I hope that the report was also read by the former Prime Minister of our country, the informal one who ran all the ministries. We all know that, my friends, the way it was! We all know that! And that he also read this report by the SAO, which says that the ministries simply did not make selection procedures for IT contracts. Even the European Commission tells us: Please spare me, please act like administrative economic operators. So I would like to ask that we be factual in this discussion and, if possible, not fallow. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u19	Thank you. Still a de facto Mr... If it's a priority right, there's a queue for that too. [[to Mr Kalousek]] Well, then you have a chance with de facto, otherwise... All right, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u20	Through the President, Prime Minister Faltýnek - I do not suffocate. I didn't say anything else. I said, "Yes, it should have been, we wanted to spend 24 billion. less." You guys were like, "We're gonna save, and that's why we're gonna spend 24 billion. more." The numbers are very clear. You can't lie to numbers. You're spending 24 billion. More than we wanted. So we just don't lie! [[15.00 hours]] And if I'm pointing out within the limits of income and expenditure on clear priorities, if we're going to talk about what's more of a priority here, whether science and research, or the balance of Agrofert, it's fair, but let's say it openly. It's just that science and research have a greater priority for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u21	Is that factual, Mr. Chairman? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u22	I'm so sorry. I'm not used to talking publicly. I also apologise to Mr Kalousek, but I did not mean the technical part that you were talking about. I meant the other part where you faked and made up nonsense. That's the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u23	Also factual. Please. Vice-President Filip must wait. He's on a different list. I've got three right now. One list of facts, one with priority rights and one proper. We'll deal with it gradually. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u24	I would like to pay my respects to my precious colleague, the chairman of the club YES, for giving me the truth in the technical part. I feel like that's all I've been talking about. If I'm in some unprofessional part that I don't realize right now, he's talking nonsense, then sometimes I'd like to have it explained. But I'm saying that everything I said here was professional. We're spending 24 billion. more than we have to. First of all. And within the framework of the 24 billion we spend more, we give a clear preference to Agrofert's balance sheet and immediate drive-through over the competitiveness of the Czech Republic and over science and research. If that's an unprofessional statement, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u25	I'm making a list. That's the list of factual points. And I'm opening second, that's a list of priority rights. It currently includes Vice-President Filip and then Minister of Defense Picek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I didn't know if it would work for me for two minutes, so I'd rather sign up with priority rights. We've heard a lovely lecture here about budgetary sovereignty. I'd call it a demagogic lecture. Because the professors of demagogy are born here in this House. I don't believe what my colleague Kalousek said. I'm telling you all, I'm not telling him. Because when we were talking about budgetary sovereignty, we would have to remember the time when this Parliament did not really leave the whole budget to its officials and governments and at least a part of it to decide either later or in the state budget itself. Then it began to be called a bear, it began to be questioned, because Mr Kalousek became the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and he needed the whole reserve that the Chamber of Deputies had left for its own decision to decide on its own within the government coalition. That is how any decision in the Chamber of Deputies vanished because it was called pejorative. I have not seen any official of the Ministry of Finance, any official of the Ministry of Regional Development, any official of the Ministry of Education, that he would come to see one single event in, say, the New Castles in the South Bohemia Region or another village or city in another part of the Republic, to see if what the Members here proposed has or has no meaning. No one then questioned the Ministry of Finance's right that any state budget item had not been paid because it was later found that what was voted here did not have the parameters. But that wasn't about parliament's sovereignty back then! Once Mr. Miroslav Kalousek became Minister of Finance, he canceled everything and withdrew it for his decision. And now that we are to return to the budgetary sovereignty of Parliament, I am in favour! So let's defend ourselves and not put it in the government's budget reserve and say that we create a reserve to solve the fundamentals that are not clear here today. Why did KSČM vote at first reading on the essential conditions of the budget, that is, on income, expenditure, deficit and income of municipalities and regions? Because we were aware that there are laws set up here that decide what income we will have at the moment adopted by the tax laws, whether they are income taxes or indirect taxes, excise taxes or value added tax. [[Direct]] And it was also clear what the expenditures of this state would be. And the whole difference that we're talking about here, and we're demagogically blaming ourselves, whether it's going to go there or not, is whether the estimate of the former government was like that, the estimate of the current government is about something, I'd say, more optimistic. And what's the next government's guess, I'm really curious about that. Especially when we do not know what the Czech National Bank will do or will not do. And the political instability that we are creating here may also mean that the estimate will be even more pessimistic and we will have to reach for a change in the state budget at some point. I would just like to say that I am also in favour of saving 365 days a year, as one of my colleagues said in a factual remark. But, you know, I'm convinced that the state budget isn't about saving. This is the concrete executive work of individual ministers and also the specific control work of individual committees. But the state budget isn't about the investigation. Don't be mad at me! The state budget is whether we're creating the conditions that something will be made here, that there will be some kind of economic result here, and we can still save some money on that. Without the economic result, without the growth of the economy, without the growth of the economy of the Czech state, we have nothing to spare. Don't be mad at me. I had to say this because the demagogic speeches that have been said here through the mouth of Miroslav Kalousek really bother me after all these years, because I would like to return to the budgetary sovereignty of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u27	Minister of Defence with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the discussion of the draft law on the state budget for next year, I initially did not intend to speak at all, but in the light of the recent years when the Ministry of Defence's budget has decreased dramatically, I could imagine that the compensation for these cuts will be slightly higher in the coming years, but we have managed to find a relatively satisfactory solution to the military's budget, at least a partial degree of stability in the coming year and to maintain its capabilities to the current extent. However, the amendment to the chapter of the Ministry of Defence, which emerged from the Committee on Budgets, forces me to respond and to state a few fundamental facts. First of all, I would like to remind you that between 2009 and 2013, the Ministry of Defence's budget fell by approximately 13.9 billion, which represents a reduction of 22 percent. None of the resorts in the Czech Republic or any other resort of defence within NATO countries had to face such restrictions. Although there was no decline in gross domestic product in these years, the share of defence expenditures on GDP continued to decline, and was still drifting away from an allied commitment that says that State defence expenditure should account for at least 2% of GDP. The Ministry of Defence has been able to cope with this trend so far, so as not to fail to fulfil its tasks and allied obligations of the Czech Republic. At the same time, there have been a number of austerity measures and it can be said that at present we are at the minimum level of the viability of the army and the sustainability of their capabilities, which defines the current legislation and our allied commitments. In recent years, as a result of the limitations of the budgetary framework, the Ministry of Defence has undertaken a substantial reorganisation and reduction of staff from 34 600 employees to the planned 29 300 to 1. 1. 2014. [[15.10 hours]] More than half of 12.5 billion. in 2009 to 5 billion. In 2014, investment expenditure was reduced and savings also affected current expenditure by a quarter. Nevertheless, the resort managed to stabilize at least partially, adapting to the recession so as to go through it with minimal damage. This has also been achieved through the search for alternative sources of finance, such as: the sale of non-needed immovable property, which in the last four years represents a yield of approximately 4.3 billion. Crowns. However, the further fall in the budgetary framework is already very problematic. The total budget expenditure limit in the chapter of the Ministry of Defence for 2014 is proposed by the Government in the amount of 42.7 billion, which corresponds to the share of the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Defence in the amount of 1,11 GDP. The medium-term outlook for the state budget of the Czech Republic for the years 2015 and 2016 assumes an amount of 43.5 billion in state budget expenditure for the Ministry of Defence chapter, respectively. 45.2 billion, which corresponds to 1.09 share of the Ministry of Defence's budget on GDP in both years. This increase would only allow a partial but at least some remediation of the deficit accumulated in previous years. The 2014 draft budget gave the Army of the Czech Republic some hope that there was a turnaround in the sad trend of recent years. However, the Committee on Budgets comes up with a proposal that puts the Ministry of Defence in an even worse situation than the one that the Ministry of Defence had to face this year. The proposal to reduce the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter is by 731 million. lower. I want and need to draw attention to this step, because from my own experience, I know very well that this will be a difficult situation for any management of the Ministry of Defence and for the military as such, having a negative impact on the image of the Czech Republic as a reliable partner in the framework of allied organizations. In addition to the draft budget committee itself, I must also mention the negative impact of the recent depreciation of the currency by the Czech National Bank, which will entail additional costs for the Ministry of Defence next year, which is about 300 million for the current commitments. Crowns. In addition to the fact that there is an effort to further reduce the defence budget, it is even worse that the Ministry of Defence cannot decide on its own in these savings, given the areas in which savings have already been made. This restriction should cover exclusively selected current expenditures, which would have specific implications for the purely basic functions performed by the military. Of the total amount of current expenditure planned for 2014, the proposed reduction in data is 7 per cent of around 10 billion. I'll only make a few cases. It is for next year that general repairs and purchases of spare parts for helicopters V3A Sokol are planned, without which it would no longer be possible to provide air rescue service from the Army of the Czech Republic. As a result, the prescribed work could not be carried out e.g. on small transport aircraft, the number of training hours would have to be reduced to critical conditions and the training and training of pilots would be compromised. The army would not be able to provide sufficient equipment components for its members, while the equipment would not be available not only for new recruits, but also for those who are active and are preparing for service abroad. The situation in the fuel sector would also be very difficult, as the military is currently at a minimum of PHM training requirements especially for the air force. If current expenditure were to be reduced, this would also have a negative impact on the purchase of additional items, e.g. ammunition, which would also endanger our commitment to the alliance in participating in the construction of a combat task force, which is a completely basal task of the Czech Republic as an ally. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have only briefly tried to outline the state in which our army is situated and the consequences of further restrictions on the Ministry of Defence's financial framework. The representatives of the resort have long warned that the worst thing for our army is the uncertainty in which it has been moving in recent years. Currently, the Ministry of Defence is carrying out final work on the Ministry's medium term perspective, which is realistic and offers a sustainable state of the capabilities of the Army of the Czech Republic in the following years. However, the condition for its success is at least the partial predictability of financial developments. However, this predictability is not possible if there are similar jumps to the adoption of a draft budgetary committee. There will be no stabilisation of the Ministry of Defence resort with similar jumps. The uncertainty to which the army would be cast would de facto mean a step backwards by five years in its development. Our credibility in relation to the Alliance and the allies would be undermined, as this would further undermine the principle of solidarity, which is justified by the strengthening of which is currently mainly due to the increase in Europe's share of defence spending. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u29	Yes. Thank you, Secretary of Defense. And if there are no other applications with priority rights, please colleagues duly logged in to a detailed debate. The first will be Mr René Číp, Mr Adolf Beznoska will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u30	Mr President, dear government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up for Amendment No. 114 to Parliament's Press No. 6 colleagues Final of 12 December 2013, which is listed in the electronic register as document 05575-06084 so that we can vote on it at third reading. The justification for this amendment is simple. In view of the decision of the Czech National Bank to change the koruna exchange rate and given that two thirds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget are charged in foreign exchange payments, it is necessary to increase the Ministry's item to cover exchange rate losses so that the Ministry does not cause problems due to the decision of the Czech National Bank. I just point out that the koruna exchange rate is calculated in the budget of CZK 26 per euro and we now know that the euro value is around CZK 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u31	Mr Beznoska, Mrs Putnová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u32	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, very briefly. There is now a second reading of the budget debate, which probably no one will officially report to next year. It is simply because the emerging coalition had it approved in an incredible time when the budget could not be properly discussed. I don't want to repeat the debate about who's saving or not saving. I would like to focus on a little explanation of the amendment tabled by the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, in the package, namely the measure relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. First thing. We would like to propose an increase for organisations that provide social services by 900 miles. Crowns. A brief explanation. This area is long-term undersized. During the last financial year, Prime Minister Nečas' government had to add 500 million to this sector. CZK, so that social services don't just kneel. The second thing I would like to remind myself of and ask for your support is the contribution and increase of the resources for active employment policy by about 300 million. Crowns. I say this also in the knowledge that for the originally proposed amount you have in the draft budget, 4.6 billion. CZK, it is considered that the European Union's budget, from European money, could benefit from a subsidy of 3.5 million. CZK, but since each subsidy is with a question mark, I would not like this area to remain undersized simply because the emerging coalition is also meant to increase the minimum wage from 8.5 thousand. somewhere to the limit of 10 thousand. Crowns. [[15.20 hours]] What's that gonna mean? Certainly, a number of people lose their jobs. You're just gonna drive them to the office of work. An active employment policy is one of the factors that can help in finding employment. In the long run, President Sobotka has pointed out that this part of the funds Petr been Nečas, and I must say that I believe that this time this proposal will increase by 300 million. The koruna will support it. The third proposal that concerns this area is a proposal for us to make 113 miles. CZK increased funds for employers who employ disabled people from the proposed CZK 6.6 billion. to 6,713 billion. It is a simple comparison of money at the same amount as it was approved in the 2013 budget. Of course, this chapter runs out, and we also propose savings - 500 million. We would take CZK from sickness insurance because in the draft budget, the sum is approximately 22.4 billion. koruna; that amount is about 2.5 billion. taller than last year, and I understand that there will be a three-week-to-two adjustment - you know what I'm talking about - so I'm sure there will be some kind of impact on the resources, but I still dare say that half a billion can be saved or used there. And the remaining about 800 miles. We would then use CZK from a chapter or an item that addresses social policy and employment policy. If I take it globally, it's about 1.3 billion. moving is taking place, however, budgetaryly this proposal, at least in this part, is neutral, because it remains a solution within the framework of Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So I would very much intercede for this support of yours. And let me give you one brief reminder of the second part of the proposal, which concerns the increase in salaries, respectively. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. There is a long-term discussion about Czech education, about its individual levels, and I look at it in a way that we have basically resolved that each of us can find an individual educational path, each of us can choose the degree and path of education - but the school has always been a cantor. The best aids, the best educational programs without a good cantor mean nothing. I'm very much interrogating myself to make it an amount of 1.5 billion. support for cantors at the primary level of education and secondary education. They certainly deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u33	Thank you. Mrs Putnová is another member of the debate. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the planned expenditure on science and research in the following year. This my entrée will then result in four concrete amendments. Science and research have become a great politician in recent years, which has been seen as a big election issue from all political parties at the time of the election campaign. Individual parties across the political spectrum have been chasing ideas on how to add to this chapter, chasing ideas on how to strengthen this area, which undoubtedly contributes to the country's competitiveness. During the time that Nečasův' government ruled, investments in science and research were able to increase in year-on-year comparison mostly over the last decade. In July this year, the Nečasův government adopted a decision in which it increased investment in science and research by 1.5 billion. In September of this year, Rusnokův's government made a change in the budget and cut off this increase. If Prime Minister Rusnok's government had gone through the proper elections, it would have won, and if it had won the programme of mild support for science and research, massive support for the agrifood complex and the Ministry of the Interior, this discussion would have been futile and unnecessary. Because this is not the case, and since the House has the opportunity - not only the possibility, but also the strength to change this decision, I allow myself to justify the various proposals that we are making. The investments to be directed to science and research, according to Nečasův' government, were primarily designed to support excellent centres, to support the best that Czech science can offer. The proposals I have tabled to the Education Committee respect this priority and are not proposals that come and support science and research across borders, but come to specific chapters to enable the best viable to be supported. This will require one condition: it will require your courage to be able to raise your hand for these amendments at third reading. I submit them as four separate proposals, because I would very much like us to vote on them separately at the third reading. The amendment, which you have under House document 146, aims to increase the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports's finances for institutional support for research organisations according to the evaluation of their results. It means in practice that the best universities get the most, and we will encourage the differentiation of universities that have been mentioned for years. This increase is to the detriment of Chapter 329 - The Ministry of Agriculture in a specific indicator of support for the agrifood complex, in which others expenditure, by an amount of 950 million. This is an amendment which, unfortunately, did not pass during the discussions in the school committee. The three following amendments, which you have under House document 143, 144 and 145, have been supported by the Education Committee. Again, I note that this aid is intended to enable excellent centres, doctoral and postdoctoral projects, for example, to work successfully in the Grant Agency, at least as successfully as before. This is overall aid, which is included in the chapter of the Grant Agency 400 million, in the Technology Agency 200 million. and for the Academy of Sciences 350 miles. All of this goes to Chapter 314 - the Ministry of the Interior for 350 million. At the Academy of Sciences, 200 miles. for the Technological Agency and 400 miles. At the Grant Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are interested in supporting viable projects of Czech science, please join us in raising your hand for these amendments. I believe that in this House there are many experts, academic workers, those who have promised their constituents in the past that they will support investment in science and research. I believe you can still remember your pre-election vows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u35	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová. The next is the debate put forward by Mrs Gabriela Pecková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u36	Mr President, the government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, the adjustment of the mandatorial expenditure of Chapter 313 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the draft budget for 2014 shows an increase in unemployment aid at the expense of active employment policy by about 90 million. This reflects one thing - the distrust of this government of its own ability to implement an effective employment policy. That is why I want to sign up for an amendment, which is under number 153 in the system and which returns the transferred items from a passive solution to an active solution that restores confidence in an effective active employment policy. Whoever listened to President Sobotka's speech to the coalition agreement has also heard from him that active employment policy is a clear priority. Unemployment has been reduced to 7.7 % in 2013, which is the fifth most favourable figure in the European Union, but it is not succeeding anymore. A little below 40,000 jobs are available on the labour market. However, these are very difficult to fill, because there is a constant big difference between what employers ask for and what they offer. Some professions are then almost completely lacking. Therefore, an effective, reliable active employment policy must be launched. If we limit the money we put in it, we'll still be chasing a slut with a speedster. And we need to turn active employment policy into a shincanzen. This is the only way to reduce unemployment in the long term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u37	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Pecková. The words will be taken by Mrs Marta Semelová in a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u38	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, allow me to apply to my amendments under number 49. The first concerns a proposal for a reduction in Chapter 398 - General Treasury under Government Budget Reserve by an amount of 1 billion. CZK and by this amount, i.e. by that 1 billion, increase chapter 333 - The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports with the determination of the expenditure block of regional education for payroll and legal contributions. Why do I suggest this? Securing quality education should be a priority for each government. One of the important prerequisites of this education, and it has already been repeatedly said here today, is a qualified teacher who has created conditions for the pursuit of his profession, including the conditions of salary. However, teachers' salaries are long-term undervalued. In the Czech Republic, teachers are among the worst-paid professions with higher education. A comparison of 29 OECD countries shows that Czech teachers aged 25 to 64 will earn only half of what other university-educated employees earn. Low financial evaluations show that many qualified educators leave the schools. A number of graduates of teaching faculties do not enter schools and a large part of the students of teaching courses, it applies to 26%, after the first year of study looking for the possibility to transfer to another field. I don't think any of us doubt that any prosperous country can do without quality teachers, because education levels are a condition for raising the economic level. Of course, there is no funding in education elsewhere. It is not just about salaries, it is missing from other non-investment expenditures, which still pay sick leave, at the expense of teaching aids, textbooks, further teacher education or courses for pupils. As regards the second amendment, here I propose to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 396 - State debt on the State debt operator indicator by an amount of 2.3 billion. CZK and further reduce chapter 355 - Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, reduce by an amount of 100 million. CZK and by these means, i.e. 2.4 billion. CZK overall increase the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in order to increase the volume of funding to provide social services. The amount of funding for the provision of social services in 2014 totalling 6,1 billion. The koruna is completely inadequate. Since 2008, when it amounted to 8.2 billion, it has decreased by more than 2 billion. Crowns. Each year it is necessary to provide additional funding, because otherwise it would threaten many providers of social services to perish. If the budget is not increased by the said amount of finance, not only the availability, quality and scope of social services will deteriorate, but some providers will have to put an end to their activities. This will escalate social problems and will make the solution significantly more expensive in the future. The minimum amount needed to at least maintain existing care is 8,5 billion for the next year. CZK, which is also recognised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There's another thing I'd like to comment on. Flat finance cuts for all resorts without differentiation will have a negative impact on those areas that we should, on the contrary, strengthen. These are, for example, the means for the construction of nursery facilities, for the expansion of nursery capacity, for the means for secondary education to survive a lower number of secondary schoolchildren at present. There's no craftsmen, there's no technical staff. Apprenticeships and technical disciplines need to be encouraged, of course, with regard to and reconciliation with the labour market. This reduction is, of course, related to individual departments and employees. I speak for the Ministry of Education and Social Policy at the moment. I do not want to evaluate the level of salaries in, for example, the Senate or the Office of the President of the Republic, i.e. where, according to the government, the draft state budget is to be added. However, I would remind you that, for example, teachers or school non-teaching workers have a lot of undervalued salaries, as I have already said. As far as employees in social services are concerned, their average net salary ranges from CZK 10 to CZK 11,000. Many of these employees are forced to receive social benefits, for example, for housing, or even for physical distress. If the proposal had been adopted by me, these workers and workers could improve by approximately CZK 830 a month. I just remind you that social service providers have been trying to agree to raise salaries with the government since 2010. Will there finally be someone who will answer their request? The underfinancing of social services is also evidenced by the fact that it has to be additionally funded each year in order to prevent some of them from disappearing. In 2013, there were 6.06 billion in the social services budget. It wasn't enough. As of April, there had to be an additional distribution of money from the reserve of 100 million. In the second half of the year, she had to make further grants of 500 million. CZK to be decided by former Minister Müllerová. At the same time, the social area is gaining importance from the deteriorating economic situation of citizens. [[15.40 hours]] Poverty is increasing. Below the poverty line is 1.6 million in the Czech Republic. People, it's 600,000 more than last year. Unemployment is growing, and there has been talk about active employment policy. During November this year, the number of registered unemployed increased by 8 632 to more than 565 thousand. Compared to the same period last year, it was almost 57,000 more people. Newly registered 50 835, 42 203 persons were removed from the register, but only 16 598 joined the work. That means more than 25,000 people have been eliminated without a location. There are therefore more than 750 000 citizens in the Czech Republic without work at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, the social impact on people, social problems, problems in social services, education and education problems are the ones that each government should address first and foremost. For these reasons, I ask you to add funds to these areas according to my proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u39	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Before I give the floor to the duly signed up Member Josef Novotný, Mrs Benešová, the Minister of Justice, applied with priority rights in the resignation of Marie Benešová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have received a new budget as a serving Minister of Justice, with a reduction in expenditure of 292 million. Crowns. I cannot identify with this proposal, although I try and understand the need for a future coalition to save, but I must also warn the future Minister of Justice, who will emerge from this very coalition, of the clear pitfalls that I will try to interpret briefly here. Thus, first of all, the budget of the chapter for 2014 is increased by revenue and expenditure of 900 million. Crowns. The involvement of these expenses is conditional on the fulfilment of the legal fees of 700 million. CZK and for the sale of unnecessary assets of 200 million. Crowns. This means that I cannot calculate these expenditures over the course of the year and it may happen that I will not be able to draw them either. The sale of assets is very complicated and it is very difficult to plan revenue from it. The problem with linking expenditure to the revenue from court fees is already taking place this year, probably due to the transition to the new Civil Code. This may be the case in the past, especially in 2009, when the budget covered operating expenditure for only nine months of the year and the courts were unable to meet their obligations within the due date, in particular to cover the costs of the necessary defence. Secondly, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Justice is managing the most organizational components of the state, a total of 115. Only Prison Service as one organizational component ensures the operation of 35 prisons located throughout the Czech Republic. It is clear from this that the coverage of all the activities of these components, of course, requires adequate operating expenditure to do so and cannot be reduced without taking all the impacts into account. Operating expenditure has been minimized before by buying energy on the commodity exchange and centralized purchases of the most important commodities. In the past, operating expenditure has been reduced by about 60 million. Crowns. This adjustment will also be difficult to cope with, in particular, with judicial forces. Pre-supply of materials and raw materials was also prevented by a transfer from unused social benefits this year. Two budgetary measures have not been approved by the Committee in the past days, although other similar measures have been approved by my colleagues. I find it rather unsystemic. In the wage sector, I am happy to pay at least 2% of the salary increase, as this area has been financially undervalued over the long term. There is no reduction. On the contrary, if any savings have been made in other expenditures, this area has always been strengthened. As an example here, I can give the clerks in the courts that they take for example. 11,000 crowns after training and with such salary, they immediately go to the private sphere. The average salary in the judicial section is almost CZK 5,000 lower than the average in the non-business sector. Similarly, the salaries of members of the Prison Service for salaries in other security forces, especially in comparison with customs officials, fall behind. As a fourth point, I would like to point out that in the area of programming funding, funds have been raised for the new construction of the Regional Court in Ústí nad Labem, where other organizational units will be located here, which is the seat of justice. These costs cannot be reduced. Please note that this county court has been set up three times, and his condition is detachable. Finally, when discussing the draft budget for 2014 in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, namely the Constitutional and Security Committee, it was stated that the current budget should ensure the financing of the Ministry by the end of the year. However, it does not allow its development, possible reforms. So I regret the summary of the future Minister of Justice who will inherit this budget if you shorten it this way, and I ask that these funds be left to you, which you want to shorten in this section in the chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u41	Thank you to Minister Marie Benešová and now, in due order, Mr Josef Novotný, in a detailed debate on the state budget at second reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, the government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support two amendments. Firstly, it is Amendment 139, when it comes to increasing the expenditure of Chapter No. 334 - Ministry of Culture, in the area of promoting reproduction of property of regional cultural establishments. There's currently 19 miles, I'm asking for an increase of 350 miles. to a total amount of 369 million. This increase would go up - first - to the Ministry of Agriculture, where there are 52 billion in the original proposal. 373 million 198 thousand. CZK 114, down by 250 million. 52 billion. 123 miles. 198 thousand. Crowns. And on top of the state debt, where out of 66 billion. It takes 100 miles. 65 billion. 900 miles. Crowns. Let me briefly justify this amendment. It is clear that the area of cultural heritage care is long-term underfunded. Although the chapter of the Ministry of Culture is strengthened in the draft state budget for next year, it is mainly an increase in the adoption of the law on property settlement with churches. Moreover, this increase does not entirely cover the amount that the Czech Republic is obliged to pay to churches and religious companies next year, so the Ministry of Culture will have to save elsewhere. [[15.50 hours]] The C-table part of the draft state budget is in Table No. 2 see item 332 - protection of monuments and care for cultural heritage and national and historical awareness. It is reduced by 64 percent of the amount of funds against last year, i.e. from 3 billion. 444 miles. 2 billion. 206 miles. This item includes a large number of other items, including me proposed to strengthen. Care for historical monuments is an important part of maintaining our historical awareness and, in general, the culturality of the nation. However, it is not just monuments that have the status of national cultural monuments to which it sometimes gets. It is also regional cultural monuments and facilities that the Ministry of Culture has previously supported, but it cannot support them for the above reasons as well. If he has 19 million for the whole Czech Republic, you can imagine the support there. Another reason I think is that it is precisely the increase in this chapter that will bring work for people, because if monuments are being repaired, it obviously brings work for people. The proposed solution is dealt with by a transfer from chapters 396 - State debt, as I have already said, and 329 - Ministry of Agriculture. In the volume of these chapters it is the marginal volume of funds in the order of promile. At the state debt, it's 3.8 permile, at the Department of Agriculture 4.7 permile. Given that expenditure under the headings of the two chapters from which the transfer of funds is proposed is rather a qualified estimate that is difficult to estimate in advance, and we will not know the reality until the end of the year in question, it is, in my view, justified, necessary, which is negligible on an overall scale. The Ministry of Culture also supports this amendment. I would also like to draw attention to the second amendment approved by the Committee on Budgets. This is a proposal in Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm not gonna read it all because it went through the budget committee. I would just like to point out that this is an increase in the chapter for social services, where an amount of approximately 6 billion is currently proposed. CZK, and in my proposal, which has been passed by the Committee on Budgets, there is roughly CZK 7.2 billion, which means an increase of 1.2 billion, and it is within the scope of the chapter, that is, within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Of course, there are many reasons. I'll only say one. In recent years, the budget has always started at around 6 billion. and finally there gradually, whether it was Minister Drábek or others, they added more and more hundreds of millions of crowns because of the 6 billion. It just couldn't be enough. That's one of the main reasons. Then there was a lot of nervousness when social services didn't know if they were going to die, if they could survive for a year. So there's a suggestion that there should be security for the providers of these social services from the beginning. I thank you for your attention and hope that you will support these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u43	I thank Mr Josef Novotný. Mr Josef Nekl will take the floor in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to Amendment 114 to House Press 6 by colleague Kateřina Konečná, which submitted 12. This year's 12th, which is listed in the electronic register as document 055075-06083, so that we can vote on it at the third reading. At the same time, allow me to at least very briefly justify the proposal to increase the budget of the 115160 programme to support the restoration of natural landscape functions by 70 million. The crown I just signed up for. The programme for the restoration of the natural functions of the landscape is designed to support activities that cannot be financed from the Operational Programme Environment. Among other things, measures affecting the drainage conditions and the water regime in the landscape and the associated and virtually unsolved water erosion problem on agricultural and forestry land may be supported under this programme. As a specific example, I would like to mention that due to this erosion, the conditions of rainwater are deteriorating, flows are being introduced, and that is why we are often witnessing lightning floods in our country, which are repeated more and more frequently. It is also a national subsidy programme through which it is possible to support the security of the duties of nature conservation authorities related to management of protected areas, whose financing is a long-term problem for nature conservation authorities, although these are very often international commitments of the Czech Republic. For these reasons, we consider the proposed amount of 30 million. CZK for completely inadequate in terms of the content of the programme and we propose to increase it by the already mentioned 70 mil. Crowns. As a counterweight, I say that the funds, that is, the sum of 70 million. CZK, could be obtained from Chapter 397 - Operation of state financial activities. Finally, let me ask you to support the amendment that I have just tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u45	I thank Mr Josef Nekl for the proposal. The words will be taken by Mrs Jana Černochová with her contribution to the detailed debate, and a colleague Jan zahradník will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I'm 4. At 5:00 p.m. on the Organizing Committee, she learned that the emerging government coalition intends to discuss one of the country's most important laws, the State Budget Act, at first reading on Friday 6. 12. I've been thinking about whether it's a Nicholas prank or if it's meant to be serious. It is undignified for this House to provide opposition and coalition Members with 40 hours to read more than a thousand pages. The future government coalition thus showed total disrespect for the efforts of those of us who really want to work in PS and not vote as puppets about things we cannot study. Although we have been prevented from longer budget studies, I have really worked hard to deal with this term and to thoroughly study at least the chapter notebooks of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. My next speech will therefore deal with a more detailed analysis of the budget of Chapter 314 - Ministry of the Interior for 2014 and years later. I apologise to those of you who are meeting with me on the Security Committee that you have heard some of my comments, but you also know how I have been silenced in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and I have not received a single answer from the Minister of Home Affairs without confidence in demise, Mr Pecina. Instead of replying, I have received a completely unprecedented vote on the end of the debate. I hope that this illegal procedure has been an entirely isolated and regrettable excess stemming from the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure and will never be repeated on any committee again. But back to the Home Office's budget. It could simply be said that this is the populist electoral irresponsible unrealistic budget of the SPOZ, as it creates expectations that cannot be met in any way due to the current approved outlook for 2015 and 2016. [[16.00 hours]] I reject the statements that the budget in spring 2013 began to prepare Nečasův' government and the demon Kalousek and that the numbers are correct. The numbers don't fit at all. We've had Rusnokův's government for six months, which has had enough time to match the figures for the next period. The internal structure does not indicate any attempt to rationalise or maintain long-term sustainability. From this point of view, it is very obvious that the government, which is presenting with this budget and the medium-term outlook, does not even acknowledge the idea that it should be respected and that it would bear any responsibility for it. The future government coalition must recognize this fact. And I am very sorry that none of their Members had the courage to admit this problem and ask the government to redeploy such amateurly prepared budget. I have nothing against the systemic increase in the number of police officers and firefighters, but I reject the deepening of internal debt on both of these components, which is particularly apparent in 2015 and 2016. The relatively sharp growth in expenditure in 2014 plus more than two billion compared to the approved 2013 budget is directed exclusively to mandatorial expenditure, which will not be reduced in the coming years, despite the fact that in some subsequent years the plan is presented a much more robust decrease in total expenditure in Chapter 314, namely in 2015 a decrease in total expenditure of less than 3 billion, and in 2016 even more than 4 billion. Crowns. Given that in the area of own income no dramatic growth can be expected, in an optimistic case maximum in the order of units, if it were possible to realize some sale of assets, and in the knowledge that mandatorial expenditures are largely non-reducible, social benefits at all, and the resources for employees' salaries, if this draft budget and outlook for 2015 and 2016 is to be taken seriously, it should be assumed that all planned savings will have to be realised in operating expenditure, especially with the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps as the largest budget items. Attention, of course! For example, the total other operating expenditures of the Czech Republic are planned for 2014 at 4,185 billion, so the decline in 2016 could be solved by the total cessation of operation of the Police of the Czech Republic, because the average annual expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic for operation is just 4 billion. The authors can't be serious! Will we live to see a time when policemen and firemen won't have gas, heating, lighting? At least the partial renewal of the fleet promised by the Minister in the demise of Pecina can only be dreamed of. All this because of the electoral populist chatter of the Minister of the Interior of the Government with no confidence in demise, Mr Pecina, who promised to increase the number of firefighters and police officers, but somehow failed to increase the funding under the budget perspective for 2015 and 2016. Apparently, the Minister expects these new recruits to work for the state for free. The quality of the material presented is trivial, does not fit the numbers, does not fit the tables, some pages are in it twice and some of us prefer to be completely silent. The number of employees does not fit, other data can be found from the presentation and other from the chapter workbook. In the presentation on page 17 of the outstanding claims on programmes co-financed by the European Union for a total amount of more than 4 billion, for example. the actual material, i.e. the chapter notebook, does not speak chastity at all. At the same time, some projects, e.g. Operational Centre Police of the Czech Republic, Fire Rescue Corps, rescue services, which was a key project for the functioning of the IRS for 2 billion. and it is completely irreplaceable, it was supposed to have new functionality, significant acceleration of emergency calls, faster resolution of any emergencies and crisis situations, under it was line 112 - unfortunately there will be nothing from this project, only unacceptable costs and outstanding parameters of the project. Page 23 of the presentation is identical to page 25. Page 24 is identical to page 26. Page 26. The Minister should kindly describe to us all the reserves of this chapter, including the general treasury administration in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, as these are gradually being transferred for purposes other than those planned, as is the case for example. on page 11 of the chapter notebook, the second and fourth dots, where there is a completely irrational transfer of funds of 400 million. CZK from social benefits to wages. What's that hidden reserve? And now I'm getting to the very chapter book. Your attention definitely deserves a table on page 25, second line from the bottom. The average salary of members of the Security Corps is CZK 66,115. You have heard correctly: 66 115 kroner average salary of security officers. I'd really like that kind of salary for the cops, especially for the specialized services, but unfortunately, it's a little different. That is the salary that Minister Pecina wants to give his ten in quotation marks to experienced police experts who will sit in his office at the Ministry of the Interior. Inside the Ministry of the Interior we, colleagues and colleagues, are created such a smaller Ministry of Police. Page 26, second paragraph. 7.9 miles. on the salaries of the Minister's expert advisors and the First Deputy Minister of the Interior! The fact that it borders on the law in many ways is quite obvious. Until the first appearance of Minister Pecina there never any advisors, virtually. members of the security forces in active service, were not. No one knows about their work force and their compliance with the work catalogue at the Security Corps with the justification why they are actually in service with the Ministry of the Interior, whether they agree to their performance on the basis of a possible career decision for an active advance by the director of firefighters or the police president. What is their qualification, experience, results? How they got to the highest police classes, which allow them to basically hold any vacancy with the Police of the Czech Republic and other congregations. What's their real salary? Is that the 66 115? Or is it more when it's an average salary? Who writes a service evaluation on them today, who wrote a service evaluation on them in the past, and did they go through a selection procedure? It is totally unacceptable for Czech Police in active service to carry out any activity with the central administrative office, if it is not schools. There is a total trampling of the Service Act. Not only does the activity of any officials of the Ministry of the Interior require neither uniform nor weapon nor special competence, but it is always only the purposeful places that serve, I believe, the non-standard interests of those who have set them up. Contrary to career principles and the Service Act, these members will be given a high class in a dedicated place and, if necessary, sent to a vacant post, in addition to any security force. There is no other explanation than that it is a purposeful abuse of the competence of the Minister, which is intended only to call members to schools. It also allows uniformed members to jump into pre-prepared functions. side entrance to the structures and departments of the Police of the Czech Republic, where as officials of the Ministry of the Interior they have no business. Page 59, Structural Funds, third paragraph. For the new programming period 2014 to 2020, the requirement in the draft budget is zero. This in combination with information on outstanding claims in the order of 4.4 billion, i.e. I mentioned line 112, which contains only a presentation, not a chapter notebook, gives very interesting but striking information. [[16.10 hours]] There is nothing in the budget 2014 or in the outlook about the projects of the data page, eCollection, eLegislativa, even though in Article 12.2 of the Coalition Treaty, which, hopefully, will be signed in the foreseeable future, with the title of the paragraph "Quality Legislation" stands - I quote exactly: we will support the project of electronic Collections of Laws available to every citizen on the Internet. No offense, but where is this commitment within the emerging government coalition in the draft state budget? Where is the outlook for 2015 and 2016 at least? If you commit to such a commitment in a coalition agreement, I suppose you'll have the appropriate funds in the budget. You do not have them there, because the requirement for 2014 to 2020 in the draft budget is zero. What am I asking for at this point? Among other things, on the 11th line from the bottom of page 74, the number of 16 992 civil servants is mentioned. However, only 16 000 civil servants are mentioned elsewhere in the budget. So what is the correct figure? I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Government with no confidence in the demise to explain this obvious nonsense, and at the same time I ask for detailed answers to all my questions concerning the involvement of ten police officers in the central government body, the Ministry of the Interior, namely police officers with an average monthly salary of CZK 66,115 in the services of Mr Pecina. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u47	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová, and now out of order with a factual remark first, Mr Kolovratník, as President of the Election Commission. It's more of an organizational thing. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u48	Hello. Thank you very much. In addition to the budget debate, I note that at 16 o'clock, the deadline for the submission of proposals to the Chairs of the Commissions of Permanent Delegation and also for changes in the institutions of the House has expired. I'm calling the election committee for 16.30 hours now. At 16 o'clock, the Election Commission in the State Acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u49	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Mr. Interior Minister in the resignation of Martin Pecina. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I have been addressed, so I will try to answer. I'm afraid I won't be able to answer all the details. Perhaps I would like to bring the debate to the Security Committee for Members of Parliament who were not there. The MP was there. The discussion lasted about two hours and, unfortunately, I and my subordinates did not get the floor in principle, so that is why we could not explain a number of questions that I received regularly. We did not get the word because individual Members took the word and it simply did not work out for us. And because others were waiting at the door, the discussion was over for my great regret. Of course, I will welcome it if it is ever repeated and I, including my subordinates, can comment on it. I'm sorry. I really can't answer all the questions about why page 68 is five people different from page 75. I can't respond to that today. This is what we promised to answer all these questions in writing to the chairman of the committee, and we are, of course, preparing that answer and will be done. With regard to some specific issues on which I would like to comment, the financing of operational centres, eCollections, eLegislatives and structural funds as a whole. Yes, e esbírka, elegislativa is not ready and I really don't know why that is. When I was a minister in 2009, the projects were still invented for Ivan Langer. We made a challenge to them back then, they started to process themselves. Why they were competed or in-housed through the Czech Post Office just before my arrival, I really don't know. This must be asked about the esbírka and eLegislative of those responsible. These projects are getting ready today. They are preparing for the Czech Post and I did not influence them or influence them. If I tried and influenced them, we would no doubt miss deadlines for European funds. So much for eLegislativ, e Collection. Operations Centres - exactly the same situation. One part entered to the police in the selection procedure, firefighters and superstructure entered by in-house pre-arrival award, in-house award through the cleft race of the Czech Post, which was being prepared for some time. The project started before I came to the Ministry this time, closely, and I can no longer interfere with it. That's the point. What I've heard here is wrong in the budget of 2015 and 2016, there's no doubt about it. I guess everyone sees that in the budget. And the reason is clear. I think that's what the Deputy Prime Minister here said. We did not feel competent or felt the mandate to change the medium-term outlook for the budget. This is for political representation with a mandate. We are, as we know, in demise and without a mandate, and no one wants us, as one MP said last time. So the reason is clear. I think the next year's budget was prepared responsibly and well. I'm sorry that a reduction of 634 million is now proposed. I understand the effort to save, but I'm just pointing out that this is a reduction in operating expenses again. I understand the investigation into various legal services, various departments. In particular, there are reports that police officers have to take in the course of criminal proceedings, or I would warn a little bit about whether the investigation of 634 million does not lead to what Mrs Černochová mentioned here, which means that police officers should not have petrol and firemen for fire-fighting or fire-fighting equipment. The last thing I'd say is my advisors. Why ten jobs were created. I decided to create service posts at the Ministry in 2009. There should have been a lot more places back then. The reason was legal. That's when the legislation changed. Dramatic cuts didn't make it happen that the interior seats were created. I am convinced that this violates at least one law. And if the Security Committee Members want to hear this, I will be very happy to come with the Security Director and explain the reason. It is a very serious reason, and so I ask that it be convened in case anyone wants to explain it, the Security Committee at the level of secrecy. The order is classified. So I'd need to explain it so he can be kept secret at this level. As far as the ten seats I've created today are concerned, of course, they're not occupied. I've got two counselors today who I've let out of the police force to this place, and they can, of course, go back to the police at any time - not any place, but probably where they came from - where they came from. And the places that are created at the Ministry of the Interior, I insist that they have a legitimate reason, and I repeat once again that I will be happy to explain it if we do a meeting of the Security Committee that meets the requirements of the Secrets Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u51	I thank the Minister of the Interior Martin Pecin and with priority rights before my colleague Zahradník, Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u52	Thank you for the floor. I'd almost feel sorry for the minister, as he said, no one wants us. Notice the modesty. When very modest expenditures for 2015 and 2016 were very unrealistic, against it, of course, in the electoral budget, he says: we did not have a mandate. If they behaved so discreetly in other areas, e.g. In the staff of the production of the second police president, etc., I would acknowledge that argument. This is only used sometimes when they make personnel changes and are not restrained. [[16.20 hours]] When we left, they needed - and in my opinion, useless - to tell us not to do anything in demise. I think it's right that the government in demise is just supposed to administer the normal course, that it's normal, it's nothing special. However, this government, which has never had confidence, which is a very special state, is not a normal state after the elections, when a new political representation comes, serves the old one who sometimes had that trust, whether the voters or the Chamber of Deputies. And I would recommend that we put an end to the suffering. This is a call for a government coalition to end negotiations as quickly as possible. I think it will also be good for the opposition to have a government with a mandate that will clearly say what priorities are not only for it 2014, but for the entire parliamentary term, and we will not hear these excuses. And thanks to the timetable you've chosen, you might be able to answer those questions from the committee in writing. But the budget will be approved by then. The only way we can do that is to shove it into the file room, even if we want to react to it by changing, positive or negative. And so it is in all the chapters. And I don't know exactly, but the idea of setting up a local police department right at the Home Office, or maybe it would have been a police force with national competence, maybe you already had it in 2009, and it's a good thing you didn't make it. And it's a good thing you won't make it this year, and I hope the next Home Secretary doesn't do anything like that, that one thing's police, the other one's Home Office, and we don't need any police on the inside.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u53	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Mr Jan Zahradník, now duly signed up, with his proposal for a detailed debate at second reading. A colleague, Petr Fiala, will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u54	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to comment on the pressure under which the House coalition has decided to discuss the draft state budget. To be honest, I cannot imagine that such important documents as budgets at regional or municipal level would be discussed in this haste. And now for what I've decided to do. Firstly, this concerns the topic which belongs to the Committee on European Affairs, which I am a member of, and in particular the preparation of operational programmes for the new programming period 2014 to 2020. One of the causes of the problems that our Republic has in drawing European money is a large number of operational programmes. I think that the number will be reduced, among other things, because instead of the existing seven regional operational programmes, an integrated regional operational programme will be prepared, the managing authority and the sole provider of which will be the Ministry of Regional Development. At the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, I was informed that the establishment of this programme was discussed with the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, and therefore the regions seem to agree with this change. As a memoir, I would like to remind all of us that in the beginnings of our membership in the European Union, so-called. a common regional operational programme, so-called SROP, which has failed, and the Ministry of Regional Development as its managing body has demonstrated an inability to understand the needs of the regions and their plans and projects. Even then, the name of the program hides within itself and contains an internal logical contradiction, which even the new name could not be removed. It is also necessary to learn and not introduce a new SROP. I would also like to comment on the fact that, despite the fact that problems with their administration have arisen in some oil and their drawing, which ultimately resulted in the determination of corrections in some cases, it must be admitted that both regional councils and regional councils and monitoring committees have created an important group of experts who have learned to focus on this complex issue. And it would be a shame if this group of educated young people went to some other sphere of our economy. The draft Coalition Treaty, which I learned with all citizens on Friday, states that the application of the territorial dimension in the programming period 2014 to 2020 will be ensured and the role of the regions will be defined. In fact, I cannot imagine how this will be done when the role of the regions is defined by the Regional Region Act and the territorial dimension is defined by the Regional Development Act 248. Another important type of programmes are operational programmes for cross-border cooperation. These have demonstrated the ability and great efficiency to affect a wide range of interests of entities in the border regions in question and, moreover, to promote contacts between people on both sides of the border. The processing of applications in these programmes was not complicated, nor was the administration of projects difficult. So I think that even the audit authorities have generally assessed the spending of funds in these programmes positively, there have been no problems or any criminal or media cases. I would therefore like to allow myself to appeal to the authorities that will prepare programmes for the next period in order to maintain the application system, project administration and control system in this programme. In terms of finance, for the period 2014 to 2020, a total of 303 million are allocated to the cross-border cooperation programme on the Czech side. EUR, which is about 50 million. EUR less than it was in the past period. And in our next year's budget, $2.8 million is allocated. Crowns. That's understandable. I consider this to be technical assistance in the preparation of the new period, because so far, not all negotiations have taken place with our foreign partners. However, I have information from border regions that cross-border cooperation programmes will be of great interest in the coming period, and that is why the appropriate dimension should be devoted to 2015 when the projects start to run fully. I would also like to emphasise here that it is necessary for the petitioners who come with their projects to maintain a certain degree of predictability that they will be implemented after years of implementation of the projects, when they are checked, so that it is done on the same criteria as those under which these subsidies were allocated to them. Finally, I would like to comment on the environmental chapter. There is therefore a constant decline in expenditure. It should mean that our environment is improving in proportion to it permanently, so it's okay. And I think that's the case. When we compare the environment and its quality 23 years ago with today, we must say that the environment has improved significantly. However, people's demands are increasing, and I therefore think that due attention should be paid to both income and expenditure in this part of the budget. In fact, the budget is quite economical in the chapter Environment. I think that if budgets and other chapters were drawn up, there might not be such a big deficit in our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u55	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník for his speech. Before I give the floor to the next person, I shall read the apology of Mrs Markéta Adamová from 17 to 18.30. Mr Petr Fiala will now take the floor and prepare his colleague Andrle. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u56	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words to you on House document 151, which is an amendment to the Citizen's Democratic Party Club, on the parts relating to research, development and education. This gives you a chance to support this proposal and to remedy some of the problems that are now in the state budget proposal. As far as the R&D part is concerned, there is an increase in dedicated expenditure for 2014, but I would like to stress that this is not actually an increase in R&D expenditure, but a reimbursement of the budget for no reason. Let me remind you that by its resolution of 3 July 2013, the previous government approved a proposal for research expenditure of 27,6 billion. CZK 27,8 and 28 billion respectively for 2014 and the outlook for 2015 and 2016 respectively. Crowns. However, on 4 September, the Prime Minister Rusnok's government annulled this resolution and prepared a proposal for R & D spending of just 25.9 billion. CZK, respectively after a certain optical adjustment of 26,2 billion. Crowns. This reduction in the research budget took place without consent and without the recommendation of the Government Advisory and Expert Body, i.e. the Research, Development and Innovation Council. Thus, against the budget approved by the previous government, Prime Minister Rusnok's government has submitted a research budget that is reduced by 1.3 billion. Crowns. Because, given the briefness of time, the members of the new forming government coalition did not have the opportunity to get to know the budget thoroughly, and they could not correct this mistake, so here we are giving them the chance to fix this situation. Our amendment is based on the proposals for expenditure which were recommended by the Council on Research, Development and Innovation and which were agreed by the Government on 3 July. In the proposed amendment, compared to the current proposal to increase total research expenditure for 2014 by 1.3 billion. CZK and this increase relate mainly to the chapters of the Grant Agency by 300 million. CZK, Ministry of Education by 800 million. CZK and Technological Agency of the Czech Republic by 200 million. Crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the proposed amendment is to return the amount of support for research, development and innovation to a realistic and necessary amount, which corresponds to the development of our research organisations, to the commitments made by the Czech Republic in this area and also to the dynamics of research development in the Czech Republic. I believe that you will support this proposal and thus prevent the unjustified reduction of funds for research, which, for incomprehensible reasons and against the recommendations of the government expert and advisory body, is directed against the development of the Czech Republic in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the next part of our proposal, this concerns an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, the expenditure block of regional education, by 1.5 billion. Crowns. I believe that I do not have to defend this increase, which will be aimed at increasing the salary of teachers, before this House. Nevertheless, I would say that an increase is necessary in order to increase the level of remuneration, which takes into account the increased performance of kindergarten and primary schools and also ensures salaries for teachers' assistants, which is one of the prerequisites for successful implementation of inclusion and equal chances policy. I also believe that this proposal will receive your support, inter alia, because the increase in teacher wage and inclusion support in education are practically in all the political parties' programmes represented in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, you can now prove, thanks to the amendment by the Civil Democratic Party, that you were serious about these declarations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u57	I thank Mr Petr Fial. I have two factual points here. My colleague Bendl was lenient with me and signed off, so the factual remark of Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u58	Very short. Just to fulfil the formalities that all of us at our club are referring to one and the same document. So I formally sign up for it, House Document 151. There's four parts. I will ask the rapporteur when he is preparing the voting system to vote separately on each of the four parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u59	I thank President Stanjur for his clarification. And now, in order. A colleague of Mr Andrle. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u60	Mr President, honourable Members, my new Member of the Pardubice Region has turned to me both my constituents and some organisations and, above all, the leadership of the city of Vysoké Mýta, where the situation with the R35 bypass has been resolved for twenty years, this is a speed road, and in twenty years nothing has been resolved. I've been dealing with this issue lately, and I've found that the bypass hasn't even bought out the land, there's no project documentation, there's just nothing. That is why we have decided to sign up for an amendment concerning the R35 expressway, which addresses the traffic situation in Vysoké Mýta, and to find a clear and rapid solution. I'm sure my colleagues from Pardubice County across the spectrum will be right. The construction of the R35 expressway and the bypass of the town of Vysoké Mýta, which would basically relieve the entire region, are unfortunately not yet in sight. As I was saying, the city bypass land isn't bought out and the project documentation isn't done. This poor transport situation must be addressed today because people are dying unnecessarily. Passage Road R35 High Myth is described as one of the most dangerous places within the road network. According to statistics of the Police of the Czech Republic from the Lotus Notes programme right in the town of Vysoký Mýta, 25 serious road accidents were reported on average. I remember two girls died in the last two years until they were 14 years old. Because it's not in sight for someone to build a bypass, or for it to start at all, the situation needs to be dealt with now. Therefore, I propose an increase in Chapter 327 - Ministry of Transport for the construction of the underpass and underpass R35, underpass in Vysoké Mýta, linking General Svatona and Jeronýmov Street, which would not only improve the safety situation of adjacent schools Jiráskov Elementary School and Basic Art School, but also improve the overall transport situation and environment of local inhabitants. Suggested 50 mil. is, I think, a relatively austerity solution and budget chapter 396 - State debt would not even record this amount because it is overvalued. Please consider whether you can do something concrete for the people of Pardubice Region with your vote. We don't have to build airlocks, we could use one underpass. That is all on my part, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u61	I thank Mr Augustin Karel Andrl Sylora, in order to say his full name, I had to write it down. Thank you. And now, Mrs Jana Hnyková will take the floor. I mean, I'm not saying who's gonna get ready so I don't make any more factual remarks. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u62	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I submit and sign up for the amendment to House Press No 6, draft State Budget for 2014, in Chapter No. 313 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, submitted to the system under the number of the House document 141. I propose an increase in Chapter No 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under heading 435 social welfare services of 6,1 billion. for a total amount of 8.5 billion. This increase of 2.4 billion. I propose to move from Chapter 396 - State debt to the State debt operator indicator. I am justifying this proposal. In the government approved draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014, only 6.1 billion are earmarked for social services providers through the subsidy procedure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. CZK, which is totally unacceptable and does not reflect this year's expenditure. Due to the real threat of hundreds of social service providers the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs this year the original amount of 6.05 billion. increased by another 0.5 billion. for a total amount of 6.55 billion. It is therefore completely pointless for the Czech Government to propose an even lower amount for subsidies for providers next year, when this year the Ministry had to address the critical state of many providers. Again, in 2008, the state was only to be 8,2 billion for providers, a year later only 7.4 billion. and this amount has been gradually reduced to 6,05 billion in the 2013 budget, despite the increasing costs of providers, in particular due to increased VAT and the increasing number of social service providers so needed for citizens. Proposal to increase the amount under heading 435 of the social welfare service to 8.5 billion. is therefore in line with the sum which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself considers optimal. This amount was repeatedly mentioned at the meeting of the subsidy commission of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the Ministry itself repeatedly acknowledged this amount in negotiations with social partners, both employers and trade unions. The amount is 8.5 billion. is objective, based on data and data available to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from the grant procedure, and among others. guarantee the long unfulfilled promise of former Prime Ministers and Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs to increase the salaries of employees in social services. I remind you that the salaries of social services workers are undervalued and disgraceful. They are the worst-rewarded group of public sector workers, while requiring a highly professional approach, user care, criminal integrity and compulsory education. They are rewarded with salaries that move well below the national average. It's shameful! After all, these workers live on the poverty line, and very often they ask for additional benefits from the social system, and society requires very good work from them. I propose an increase, even after experience with the effects of reducing funds for social service providers in 2012 and 2013, which forced many of them to limit or even end the provision of social service and caused the abolition of jobs and the demise of certain social services in these years, which reduces the quality of these services. In this context, too, I propose to strengthen item 435 of the social welfare service. Mr President, honourable Members, in your decision-making, please note that social services are very important for all of us, and we do not know when and to what extent we will need them. Let us think about their functioning and development, but also about workers who do very good work in them. I request your support and increase the funds to provide social services to an amount of 8.5 billion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u63	I thank Mrs Jana Hnyková and will take the floor of Mrs Olga Havlová with her contribution to the detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u64	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing an amendment under the number of House document 147. In the state budget, unfortunately, teachers are forgotten. In spite of an increase of 2 percent for next year, according to the Minister of Finance Jan Fischer, the wages of the teachers have fallen in the long term, which is really important in such an important field, which affects the future competitiveness of the Czech Republic. The average salary of pedagogical workers in 2008 was CZK 23,777, increased to CZK 25,053 in 2009, decreased to CZK 24,000 in 2010 and after moderate growth in the following two years to CZK 25,833. But in 2013 there was again a decline in the salary of the cantors to an average of CZK 24 970. In short, educators' wages have dropped by 4.4 percent in the last six years. The promised settlement over recent years has not been able to cover inflation either. Let us be glad that the highest motivation of our higher education workers and educators is to educate the future generation, not the desire for appropriate evaluation. Otherwise, we would have to import teachers. A possible second intervention by the Czech National Bank can lead to further increases in inflation and thus a further decline in the real wages of teachers. I consider teachers' salaries to be an up-to-date priority. It's a long-term investment in the education and future of our children. If we do not neglect it, we have the hope that the new generation will have the ability to pay off all the debts that we are sadly going to pay off. The situation is that the government prefers to pay 180 million today. remuneration to officials. The latest investigation into the quality of education in the world has shown that the quality of our education is stagnating, in a better case it is growing timidly. On the other hand, the Asian education system is growing significantly, and our neighbors are also reporting a growing trend. Our education does not offer a long-term concept of quality development and cannot keep its own promises to educators, i.e. those who are a key element of the educational process. Please do not allow injustice to take place in the pedagogies just because money invested in education reaches its effect after years. We must reverse this trend and ensure a quality school system for our future generations. A system that is no longer measured with traditional European rivals, a system that will have to compete with Asian countries that know that education is the key to the future. [[16.50 hours]] That is why we want to add 2.43 billion to Chapter 333 - Ministry of Education. CZK for teachers' salaries, which is about a thousand crowns per teacher. We want to cover this amount from Chapter 396 - Government Debt Service. The Civil Democratic Party has already proposed 1.5 billion in front of me. the salary of teachers, which would not even match inflation, let alone real wages, and the salary of teachers would not be increased at all. Since the addition of teachers is a consensus across the political spectrum, I therefore ask you all to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u65	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová, and Mr Simeon Karamazov, who is duly enrolled in the detailed debate, will take the floor, and again I will not mention another one to... Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u66	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only briefly to refer to the amendment by the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura, and to support him, in particular, at the point of the amendment, with an increase in the budget for science and research. Let me make it from the position of academic worker, from the position of university teacher, who deals with science, which still works in some projects and who knows this issue from the inside. We certainly agree, for science and research are neither right nor left-wing, that it is the key to our country's prosperity. So if we want to support science and research, let us do it now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u67	I thank Mr Simeon Karamaz and Mr Petr Bendl will take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u68	Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would take the opportunity to see the Prime Minister here at the outset, and through you, Mr President, I would ask him if he could read any of the material we received from at least one page. If he reads two or three items, he'll get a personal vánoce present from me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u69	We'll figure that out, Mr. Ambassador, later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u70	No, these are fleas, or maybe when it comes to the budget of our Agrofert funding committee, so that we might be waiting for something to grow up, that maybe they're seeds that maybe someday we'll find out what the numbers were. If we really wanted to discuss the budget responsibly, we would have to know it, and we couldn't look into it the way we got the numbers. I must say responsibly that I am deeply convinced that 99.9 percent of Members could not read the entire material, let alone put it in context with all the things that are there. It is really a blind way, as the President of our club said today, because no one really knows what is in the budget, except for some of the items I would like to quote here, and at the same time read or sign up to the amendment that I am proposing. Where the budget would be, I will now say the chapters of the Ministry of Agriculture, but maybe I will also say the whole state budget if we didn't have a relatively large, roughly 16 billion resources in the Forests of the Czech Republic and if we hadn't collected 800 miles. CZK to Budvar's national enterprise? Because the budget of the agricultural chapter is bailed out right this way. Six and a half billion from the Forests of the Czech Republic and 800 miles. from Budvar. That's what we give away when we take it out of the past! And then it doesn't matter at all that tens of millions go to advisory activities in agriculture etc. We all say how we save money, but the devil is often in the details and penny making plates. If you look in particular at the area of subsidies, which is rising significantly, which are I will say almost all the subsidy programmes where I have no problem with it somewhere, on the contrary, I am sure that this is going in the right direction; across non-governmental organisations in the past, everyone has applied to the programme or the concept of Czech agriculture and food industry, which says that our priority is to support livestock production, and it is in this concept that needs to be acknowledged objectively, but there are a lot of things that are going to go along with it. I think the disease fund at the level it's in is fine, but I say for myself that raising the cost of counseling and all this activity is complete nonsense. I am surprised that there has been almost no debate on the issue of subsidies for investments by private actors in agriculture and raising funds in this area. Or maybe I shouldn't be surprised, but I'm surprised. Give yourself the essentials to this. I think the budget shows that, overall, another government is already going to go. This is most evident in the health sector chapter, where the material presented essentially does not solve almost anything, with the argument that six billion in the Ministry of Health chapter is marginal expenditure in health care and basically nothing can be done about it. And so each item has grown, nowhere is the focus of the forces to address, for example, the situation of hospitals in red figures this year. This is not the case with agriculture thanks to the Forests of the Czech Republic and Budvar, which are very involved in spending. While I generally think that subsidies are poison and a kind of slave whip for every farmer in general, if agricultural production is subsidized in the countries around us, there is no choice but to make this cushion to protect the competitiveness of our agricultural sector as well, but all the more we have to focus on the details of where the subsidies go, who are going, if I happen to say this no longer hindering competitiveness within the Czech market, etc. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number, I believe, 155 and it says that we should collect money from the advice and support of so-called education. Out of 70 of the proposed millions, leave 10, 60 miles. take as much as I suggest taking 10 miles. NGOs to support so-called "governmental organisations'. European integration, and I also propose to reduce the support of processing-agricultural production and increase the competitiveness of the Czech so-called. food industry from 140 million. to 90 and divide these: support beekeeping by 10 million, support for building drop irrigation to strengthen by 50 million, because in the past, you know, the Social Democrats have criticised me here for not paying attention to the fact that it is dry that we should invent programmes and support for farmers who have met the drought, yet there is only 20 million. I propose that this amount should be increased to a total of 70, with the Ministry of Agriculture doing its utmost in order for these resources to be used to support newly built irrigation systems and maintain water in the countryside. [[17,00 hours]] And the third thing I'm suggesting is 60 miles. to support and strengthen the finances to support the muddying of ponds, because this is one of the areas missing in the Czech Republic in the long term. Ponds are not worth debugging, but part of it is the fact that there are also small local floods, etc., because we have no system to keep water in the landscape. If we don't do something concrete, that is. If we do not create programs to prevent such things from happening in the future, it will all be idle promises. Here's your black and white. I would like you to support this from the point of view of the state budget as a whole, but in the agricultural sector, a major amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u71	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Adolf Beznoska, who is next enrolled in the detailed debate at second reading, will now take the floor. Excuse me, I apologize to my colleague, Faltýnek. I'll put you on the record for factual remarks, but I've already given my word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u72	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, just a technical reminder. In my speech I referred to House Document 135, it was an amendment under Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. However, this proposal subsequently became a proposal as presented by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS. So I hereby sign up for the House document - Amendment 151. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u73	Thank you. Another with a factual remark, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I just have one sentence to respond to Mr. Bendl's performance. I would like to say that, of course, the agricultural committee has discussed the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget and these amendments have fallen there. I must say that only Mr Bendl voted in favour of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u75	Another party to the debate is Mr Kalousek. He's not here. So the next party to the debate is Mr Zahradníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u76	Thank you. Madam President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. At its meeting, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development approved the draft budget of Chapter 314 - Ministry of the Interior. I cannot accept this reduction in the budget for firefighters and police members and I insist on the original draft budget of Chapter 314. This proposal also fully supports the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next party to the debate is Mr Andrle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u78	Madam President, I wanted to sign up for a detailed debate here and I am signing up for my amendment under the number of House document 116. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u79	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr. Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u80	Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to put an amendment which has been loaded into the system under 158. This is an amendment to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets of 13 December 2013 where the Committee on Budgets recommends to the House that it approve the amendments set out in Annex one and two. The Annex two, in its original version, reduced the budgets of each chapter by about 5%. But then it was found that the individual chapters would be taken too much money, so the revisions were made and taken with each chapter around 2 percent to 6 percent, only from operating expenses. In one single case, there was an error. There was an error with the Grant Agency, chapter 321, where the original amount of CZK 57 337 336 remained. If we take Grant's agency 57 miles. 337 thousand, it doesn't matter if 336 crowns do or don't, we will cause the Grant Agency not to be able to pay out newly approved grants. Interestingly, on this very day, December 13th, the Grant Agency announced successful grants, standard and postdoctoral grants. If she was reduced to 57 million, the Grant Agency couldn't give, she couldn't grant postdoctoral grants. This means that our young scientists who acquired Phd., it's basically an elite nation that just finished their studies, these people who are able to create research teams for these grants, they wouldn't get the money. Therefore, I ask you or I ask you to accept this amendment. It's nothing right - left, TOP 09 - ODS, YES - social democracy or communists, it's just a mistake that was in this House press. So I would really ask you to accept this House proposal number 158. And now I'd read it. Amendment to House press number 6/2. Budget Committee Resolution No 30 of 13. 12. 2013 to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014. One. In Annex 2, block 2, the expenditure of this resolution under order number 10 in Chapter 321 - Grant Agency is replaced by CZK 57 337 336 by CZK 2 million. 700 thousand. In Annex 2, block 2, the expenditure of this resolution under order number 10 in Chapter 398 - the VPS indicator, chapter VPS, replaces the increase in VRR by 3 billion. 500 miles. Number 3 445 362 664 CZK. The above changes will be reflected in the totals of the 2014 budget recapitulation. Finally, I would really like to ask you to accept the amendment here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u81	With a factual remark, President Stanjura is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u82	Thank you. Only to a foreman who's optimistic and says there's been a mistake. Well, it wasn't a mistake. We have already voted on this in the Committee on Budgets with the same arguments. The government majority rejected it, so it is neither a mistake of the press nor a mistake of consideration. I specifically asked about it. I was told by the Ministry of Finance that this is a big budget chapter, that it admits that they added undistributed funds to operating expenses, of which they gave 6.8 %, that was 57 miles. I then proposed to the Committee on Budgets that it be 50 miles. We will return and leave the savings only for 7 million, but the vast majority of the budget committee knowingly voted against it. Maybe if I change my mind by Thursday - I will definitely support this amendment, because counting grant funds into operating expenses and saying that it saves operating expenses or obliges me, I do not think it is material error, but the wrong reasoning of those who support and propose it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u83	Thank you. With another de facto Mr Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u84	I'd like to ease the passions a little bit. Please accept the proposal despite the fact that it may have been meant seriously - it may have been meant seriously, but I still think it was a mistake that we all know that in the Committee on Budgets. We had half an hour to discuss the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, and there's nothing to discuss in that time. And mistakes like that happen. That means I'm trying to fix the mistake. Don't take this politically, it's really just the young scientists, the elite of the nation that you're going to take money by not accepting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u85	Please, Mr Kalousek, registered for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues Vácha and Stanjur, it has now been very nice - through Madam President - to watch your speech because colleague Vácha was an enthusiastic unlearned optimist, colleague Stanjura an enthusiastic enlightened pessimist, and they both named the same thing, both of them coming to the same conclusion. Just subsidies to the agrifood complex, that is, Agrofert, are more preferred than subsidies to science and research. This will be done by an educated pessimist and unlearned optimist, and this is evidently based on our parliamentary debate on the priorities of the state budget. It's logical, too. 19 percent of the voters wanted it. I would just like to point out that even if I accepted the theory, even if I accepted the euphemism that 19 percent of the voters knew that they wanted it, I still insist that 81 percent of the voters did not want it, and I dare to protest against the budgetary priorities of this budget and this unprecedented conflict of interest. I, colleagues, gave my speech in the general debate with two sentences, which I claim to frame the history of discussions on the state budget. The first sentence was, I want to be a finance minister, and I never thought about reading the state budget. I'm leaving her now. The second sentence was: we want to save, and therefore we approve higher spending. An admirable sentence. I think that Cimrma's theater will gratefully accept it as the theme of its future games. We want to save money, which is why we will approve higher spending. The June budget limits were 24 billion. lower than what you voted on here. And you said you wanted to save money. We want to save money, but we want to spend 24 billion. More. I strongly hope that in the coming months you will convince us what you meant, but we have no choice but to understand that you have simply decided to spend 24 billions. more and you don't want to save. Then you decided to do some cosmetic surgery, that the operating expenses that were very general, my former prime minister would say bluntly - I protest, I think that flat cuts are a very sophisticated discipline, unless they are done in the way you are doing them - in the same way that you collect some operating funds that you transfer to the government's budget reserve, which means you say nothing more than: We, the Chamber of Deputies as a sovereign, do not want to make decisions, we are transferring them to the government, no matter what the government decides on them. It's a decision that can't be agreed with. So, coworkers and colleagues, if you're serious about this, if even the very small and very cosmetic cut in operating expenses you really want to save, if you don't just claim it on the cameras while spending it all to the best of your conflicts of interest, then you can't transfer it to the government's budget reserve. Then you have to anchor it in a budget item that is under the control of Parliament, and then you have to anchor it in a budget item that is sure that it actually leads to an investigation, not spending it on behalf of someone who sleeps. This is the subject of my amendment, which is listed under number 157 in the system and which is based on the fact that many of you, many of us, will present amendments that will be beaten against the government's budgetary reserve. Many of them will be accepted, many of them will not be accepted, and at the end there will be some amount left in the government budget reserve. If this were to turn out the way the emerging coalition is painting, there would be at least 3.5 billion left in the government's budget reserve. more resources than legally required. These are the means that the emerging government coalition would say we want to save them. That would be what she would say today and during the year she would say: we have spent it for the common good and what is the general good, it is none of your business, Chamber of Deputies, because you have approved it for us in the government's budget reserve. So if, seriously, if you really think that these funds should be saved, then I'd like to make two reports. First of all, I think it's desperately little that if you promised your constituents and the entire public how you're going to save, then those 3.5 billion are really very few. I can't wait to see what it looks like during the year. But even if you really want to spare those 3.5 billion dead, I appreciate it, I'll support it. But then I really wish you'd spared them. And then I would like to make an amendment which would read: "Expenditures which, following the cumulative sum of all the amendments approved, will exceed the minimum legal amount of the government budget reserve of CZK 3 633 922 527, will be transferred to the newly established heading of Chapter 398 - General Treasury Administration - freezing expenditure to ensure a lower than the budget deficit of the State budget in 2014.' I am based on the fact that a number of amendments that have fallen and probably fall and will be voted and will be aggregated and will be beaten against the government's budgetary reserve, at the end of all these amendments will be some amount of government's budgetary reserve. If it's the way the government wants it to be, it'll be 3.5 billion. higher than legally required. And that's the bianco check. Bianco's cheque is a good term, although Mr Komárek finally understood what a bianco is, I think it is still necessary to repeat that the Chamber of Deputies cannot give a bianco check to a government over which he has control and over which he has full authority. So if this is what the government wants, at the end of this cumulative sum, the government's budget reserve is going to be 3.5, 4 billion. higher and that will be the money that Members of the emerging government coalition will be about, pounding in their breasts, saying: We have spared that! Well, if we're gonna believe that we've saved money, they can't go into the government's budget reserve. Then it must go to an item that will be controlled by the Chamber of Deputies, and it will not allow them to be spent. In such a case, the item will be called the freezing of expenditure to ensure a lower than the budget deficit of the state budget. Colleagues and colleagues, if you do not really wish that the amendment approved by the Committee on Budgets should be understood by all the professional public as a fully plentiful tedium, if you really intend that this money will not be spent, that it will be spared, then I think you should support my amendment. Otherwise, they will be killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u87	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, we have Mr Pilný's enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u88	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues, I apologize, I am not yet able to release the same heated air in this House for the fifth time, nor to lean on the speaker's counter, so I will try to be factual. We attended a meeting of the Economic Committee last week, and I would very much like to turn against it - we were discussing several chapters of the state budget - and I would like to very much oppose the resignation of the state budget, or that if we had two more months, we would have read the documents and made major changes. The fundamental changes lie somewhere else. I do not know how to solve the problem that the Czech Telecommunications Office will receive 150 people who will resolve disputes between operators and clients, and we will discuss whether it is a court or a Czech Telecommunications Office. The problem is somewhere else - why there are so many disputes. We're supposed to add regulatory authorities, we're supposed to raise state material reserves. Although industry's energy intensity is declining and saving in many programs, this is what we are supposed to do. The problem lies somewhere else, and we bear only its consequences. I don't want to point my finger at who did this right now. That is completely unnecessary, but it is necessary to make this state not a more effective state, because it only solves the consequences, but the state thin because it solves problems and does not bring new ones. Until we do, all the debates on how we are to adjust the state budget in a cosmetic way are pointless. I would like to appeal not only to the 118 Members who are new here, but to all of them. Someone once said that we were created by boh or nature with two ends. We sit on one and think on the other. I would like to ask my esteemed colleagues to use the right ending to think about it at least once in a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u89	With Mr Kalousek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u90	It was very nice, such an adventure, Mr President. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] But how on earth are we supposed to think you're not gonna resign if your own guru, your leader, says, "Well, I'm not gonna read it"? Well, if he doesn't want to read it, he'll resign. If there's any other meaning in this, please explain it to me. If I don't read something, I resign, I don't give a shit, I don't care! I have treated subsidies for a grocery complex, and that's all I'm gonna read. I'm just quoting open sources. I can't think of anyone right now. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm just saying that if your leader, who is aspiring, after all, to a position that is very close to public budgets, says he's just not gonna read it, because why would he read it because it's 900 pages, then you just resign. And please do not take a good look, through Madam President, that you will not resign. I know no greater resignation than when someone says they won't take care of it! I can hardly imagine a bigger resignation. And I can't imagine anyone saving up at the same time as they say we have to spend 24 billion. More. Here were the limits, here were the amendments proposed by the Chamber of Deputies to approve lower spending, to tell the government that it must not spend more. You were against it. You said, "Well, we want to allow the government to spend more, but then we'll save." Is anyone supposed to believe you? Are you supposed to be trusted by someone who's equipped with constitutional powers and a duty to order that government to spend? It's us, it's me, it's you. You're going to resign. When your chairman, Mr. Ambassador, Busy through Madam President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u91	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u92	No two minutes, I had priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u93	No, you signed up with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u94	I applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u95	In fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u96	Then turn me off, and I'll sign up with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u97	Okay, I'm shutting you down. [[Member Kalousek reporting again, Members in the Chamber laughing.]] Very well, Mr Kalousek, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u98	Thank you for the procedural precision, Madam Vice-President. So, Mr Pilný through Madam Vice-President, when you say you won't resign, and your chairman says he won't read it at the same time, I'm surprised you're not ashamed. And when you say you want to save money, and yet you say you want to allow the government to spend $24 billion. More so, I'm surprised you're not ashamed. And then I'm fascinated that you're resisting. Let's go back one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u99	With another de facto Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u100	I am terribly sorry, but I would like to ask Mr Kalousek, through Madam President, to tell us something new next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u101	Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u102	Your wish is my command. You look extremely well today, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u103	Mrs Jourová is added to another point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u104	In connection with the promotion of science and research, there have been several characteristics. Someone's optimistic, somebody's pessimistic, so enlightened. I tried to enter politics and be a learned realist. Well, I looked into the data. Drawing European funds on science and research. And I would like to ask the parties to the former coalition through Madam President whether they really mean it, that they are here today to support science and research, when they have left behind money from the European Union themselves. To know the numbers, we have 54 billion at our disposal. for hard investment, for science and research projects, to date, when it comes to the end of the programming period, the seven-year-old for which we had this money, Brusel paid us 25%, i.e. just a quarter. So I do the same thing as what the previous government did, I mean the one who had confidence and had a full mandate to use European money for science and research, so what did she do then and whether she showed even then as touching care for science and research as she does today. I point out for us that, of course, we have science and research support in the programme and we will try to live up to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u105	Mr Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u106	If so, please, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u107	Please, but you were in that case before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u108	You've seen it, and you prefer Kalousek. That doesn't make me happy. A serious comment on the President's speech of the Economic Committee. I don't know how detailed you were discussing this. These are chapters that I know a little bit, so I think - at least I've been informed by a member of the Economic Committee who was on the Committee on Budgets - and again it's about research programmes. I don't know if you were discussing 90 miles. CZK, to which the Czech Republic has committed itself as an international support for the ESA programme, the European Space Agency. I don't know how much time you've spent, but the economic committee has kept quiet about it, virtually. has not adopted any resolution. Likewise, when we debate the budget of the SFDI, which is not part of point 6, but it follows, but in point 6 it is in chapter 327, it means the subsidy of the SFDI, so you did not take any action, so you took it as it is prepared. So don't tell me how detailed you are - or you fully agree with it, and that's the second option, then apply fully to it and say that's our budget. It's the only way. I remember - I was on the Economic Committee last parliamentary term, I was here for the first time, just like you were here for the first time, and I remember how many hours we spent on individual chapters from the Office for Nuclear Safety, Office for Competition, Chapter of the Ministry of Transport, SFDI etc. At this time, which you yourself have determined, it just couldn't be discussed seriously. And you can spell it out here that you discussed it in two hours, that you understood everything, in two hours you said it was all good. That's possible, but it's not realistic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u109	Mr Petr Fiala is signed up with another de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer Mrs Jourová's question. I understand Mrs Jourová. I hope I can understand without the means, Madam President. I understand that Mrs Jourová is not fully aware of the issues of funding research and development in the European Structural Funds, which is a really difficult issue. But when you get to know it, you will find that the Operational Programme Research and Development for Innovation is one of those where funds have been spent most effectively and where there will also be 100% exhaustion. Of course, the fact that at the moment everything is not exhausted is my point. from the fact that the programs are set up to pump in the following years, and there is no problem at all. But why are we asking for an increase in research resources, and we are not asking them here because we have now thought of it, but it is based on a recommendation - and a clear and unanimous recommendation - of the Research, Development and Innovation Council, because these resources are essential for maintaining the current dynamics of our research development. They also result from the commitments made by the Czech Republic. If we have committed ourselves to the sustainability of infrastructures from the European Structural Funds, research infrastructures, we will put 2.5 billion each year in the coming years. koruna, so we simply have to fulfil this commitment. These are not the means by which we replace the unsuccessful drawdown of the European Structural Funds, but they are the means by which we ensure the development of the infrastructures that we have built through these funds. This is not about the fact that, last year's government, we did not know how we spent European funds, but because we spent them well, our research is developing. There are clear numbers for this that can be documented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u111	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u112	Thank you. For this there are clear numbers that can be demonstrated, and these means are simply needed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u113	Thank you. With another factual fact, if you do not have a factual point, your colleague, Mrs Putnová, is reporting. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the question raised here, whether we have so vehemently applied for an increase in funds for science and research in the past period, I can answer yes. In 2010, on the basis of the requirement of the academic community on the Education Committee, we adopted a resolution in which we asked to increase the contribution by 1 billion for universities. The Prime Minister adopted this proposal and in 2011, universities were added 1 billion. Like the amount we're asking for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u115	With another factual fact, Mr Laudát is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we can make any approach to the budget, but really if I feel an absolutely dangerous move somewhere, it is precisely for grants for science and research. You have a chance to reconsider the situation. The designs here are loaded. I also gave a comprehensive amendment, such in a package. It's been a bit dissected today, what has been said here, and I would repeat myself. Anyway, please. I hear from you while some of your agendas are being prepared. Road building, infrastructure, please. Nothing, no food self-sufficiency. You are really getting the Czech Republic on the path of the past. I would ask you to consider this one more time by Thursday, which you will support or not. The greatest efficiency is in technology, and our country has no future over any food, of course, unless Europe and our republic are in some fatal situation, and I don't expect that. We've been building highways for a lot of money, poor quality, and it's not gonna bring the efficiency either. We need to put in innovative technology. And what Mr Fiala said, on the contrary, there was no money coming from the European finances. It's not just about European finance. Indeed, do not chop such institutions as the Grant Agency, the Academy of Sciences, etc. It's gonna be hard to get back at us. The Czech nation is no longer competitive, and it will get worse and worse if you really do these policies. They're the policies of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u117	Thank you. With another de facto Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just one comment. Probably science and research certainly, no one is questioning that, but let's agree that the future government, which will certainly be coming soon, will also focus on the existence of the various institutions that have been created here in recent years and whose contribution to this country is at least dubious. I will not appoint an institution, but I was appalled to see the budget of an institution with 254 employees and a budget of 150 million, which is almost as much as the Constitutional Court. And I think about the outcome of this institution's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u119	Thank you. Another registered comment made by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u120	I would like to ask through Madam President my previous speaker: What have you done about it? Or were you just horrified, voted in favour, and went home peacefully?
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u121	Mr Kořenek, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u122	I did not support this budget on the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u123	Thank you. No one else with a deed. Mr. Kalousek, your priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u124	Thank you for the floor. I must say, Madam President, that I was moved unplanned by my own party colleague, Mr Laudát, when he asked for consideration not to go back. Francis, through Madam President, have you not yet realized that they are not interested in anything else? It's almost a shame to beg. But now for Mrs Jourová's comments on science and research. I am able, each of us, after all, because it is from open sources, to put on the table absolutely hard figures that the former government despite its very consistent saving criticism - I repeat, we have saved tens of billions of crowns a year. I'm really curious about how much the birthing government says we didn't save. We saved tens of billions of crowns a year, and we can prove it. Thus, while we were saving tens of billions of crowns a year, one of the few expenses that never fell, on the contrary, every year, was the promotion of science and research from national sources. True, the expenditure that did not rise was national subsidies to the agrifood complex, the Agrofert group. He didn't go up. These are two expenses that we need to compare against each other, because we have been convinced and we are still convinced that spending from national sources on science and research is a key priority for future competitiveness. And in spite of any austerity policy, they went up. The budget that we are discussing now, even though it was inflated by 24 billion compared to our original proposal, reduced spending on science and research by 2 billion, while Babiš's spending increased by 3 billion. And I ask if this is really the right priority for the future competitiveness of the Czech Republic and to what extent we are facing an unprecedented conflict of interest, present directly in the relevant government. And that is simply a legitimate question that belongs - when young front investigators are already afraid, when citizens' initiatives are silent, whether they are called the Anti-Corruption Fund of Karel Janeček, when they are silent Transparency International, when they silence these entities, if they have their reasons to remain silent, they probably have their reasons to remain silent, so that is the greater duty of the opposition not to silence them. [[17.40 hours]] That's why I'm asking: What makes you think that spending on science and research is less important than subsidies to Agrofert? I ask especially the former Rectors Zlatuška, Rais, but also some of you who may have talked about the importance of science and research many times. Microsoft's former directors used to do the same. Some of them seem to have forgotten. It's been a long time. So we still think it's important and that while these expenses have been rising for us before any austerity policy, today you agree that they will be 2 billion. humiliated, but you won't blink that by three billion. more will be subsidies from national sources! Please nicely, the European Union's common agricultural policy is subject to some rules, with the vast majority of the EU's funds automatically coming. That's not enough money. That's more than 30 billion. crowns that go to direct payments, and I'm glad that's the case. We are part of the European Union and the Czech farmers certainly deserve this. The intervention of the Czech National Bank came into this, i.e. the funds converted into euro through another exchange rate is more money and the agrifood complex has received a significant competitive advantage in the internal market thanks to another exchange rate. Two major advantages of the agrifood complex in the internal market - and you're sitting here saying, "We have to give him one more advantage." We have to take those two billion crowns from those stupid scientists and researchers who aren't researching anything anyway, and we have to give it to Babiš, because he will ensure the development of the Czech Republic. Excuse me, who other than the opposition is here to tell you that from our point of view you are being completely immoral, that you are acting completely against the interests of the Czech Republic and that you are defending a conflict of interest? That you're defending the model yourself by your godfather, by your client? We just have to tell you, and we'll always tell you, and we'll tell you all the time, and we'll tell you every day, because that's how it is! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u125	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Svoboda is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with great enthusiasm I am listening to the talk here about things that some of you seem to know absolutely nothing about. I haven't been an MP for a long time, but I've been doing science for quite a while, even sitting in the Council of the Government for Science and Research, and I know what we're talking about here. That is why I know that in the past two years and in the last year, our science first began to move simply because there were extra resources that were never there before, which we had never managed to enforce. I'm just pointing out - and without any political subtext, take it that you're being spoken to by someone who's been running college, who's been doing science his whole life and knows what he's talking about, what it costs. If we don't make sure that our young doctoral students, if they defend the work for the few crowns, because the funds have been reduced by how much they're taking every month against the previous years, if we can't make them leave, we're never gonna solve the fact that we're having some kind of economic crisis here. Neither politicians nor financiers will solve the economic crisis. Probably the financial system is at the end of its forces and needs something to change the structure, the structure of the state's function, the structure of the industrial function. And please, that's all for those who will do the science. That's why if we strangle them here, like, a hundred crowns, it just shows up. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. I've been doing this my whole life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u127	Thank you. With another fact, Mr Pilný is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u128	I hope it's my last performance tonight. Firstly, I would like to turn against the number of minutes or hours that the Committee on Economic Affairs has been discussing. By the way, we have adopted an accompanying resolution on the transport infrastructure fund concerning the years that we can influence, that is 2015 and 2016. I will not go into detail, but I will make a comment on science and research in terms of competitiveness, because it is important. So far, it's a big problem to do something called expert knowledge transfer, that is, to move things from science and research to products and services that are globally applicable, which will actually help us on the world market mostly, if possible, with small investments, because it just doesn't have on large countries. I have been in politics for two months, but I have been in this area for ten years, and through the Vice-President I am telling Mr Kalousek that I am happy to give him a lecture on this, because he is, I do not know how many years a politician, but I think he knows nothing about this area. I'm sure it's good to put money in this area, but it can't be that we're pouring money into a pot that's got a hole at the bottom and it's pouring out again. As long as we don't have clear rules and clearly defined what we've been talking about for many years, and that's knowledge transfer, that means transferring things from science and research to products and services, so we're really going to have the money running away. Otherwise, of course, it's important to have more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u129	Mr. Kalousek, I have two facts here. So I will ask another de facto Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u130	Thank you for the floor. This time I wanted to slightly correct my colleague Kalousek, who said here that the Agrofert Group has always received approximately the same amount except for European subsidies. It's not true. As Agrofert gradually bought up individual companies, so, of course, the subsidies he received increased. The problem is that Agrofert probably got low. That is why, after all, it was worth voting on the budget for the Agrofert Finance Committee, where expenditure for business entities is rising, directed to uninvestment funds of 1.9 billion. CZK, with 450 million in the past. And if I go into detail, there's just gonna be a dog buried in there somewhere. I hope we get those numbers sometime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u131	Thank you. With another de facto Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u132	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point, although I am not an expert in this discipline. I watched a very brilliant performance by Mr Kalousek, and I was quite interested. I was particularly interested because we were pointing out that there would be money missing from science and research. We pointed it out at the time when church restitution was approved here, and here it is. Money's missing. We're two billion short. And through Madam President - if you were so kind Kalousek to go to the church and say that it was also a humanitarian matter that the two billion could give us for science and research, we would all be satisfied and it would be resolved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u133	Thank you. With another de facto Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed again. Unfortunately, my request did not fall on fertile soil. We have not heard anything new, Mr Kalousek through Madam President. But to clarify the numbers that Mr. Bendl, the former Minister of Agriculture, specified to you. Well, it's not that much money. It's roughly a billion crowns compared to last year plus minus, roughly a billion crowns. But there's only one thing I'd like to say. I said it here at the first reading of the budget. The right side laughed cheerfully, which is okay, he has the right to do so, but we almost have not financed the agricultural budget from national sources since our accession to the Union, unlike all the surrounding countries of the old 15th. So this is the first time and it was started by former Minister of Agriculture Bendl, which is a good thing and I thank him for that, that at least for the animal production, which de facto almost ended in the Czech Republic, almost finished, I thank him for starting this process and that the current Minister Toman continues it. In this trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u135	With Mr Bendl in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u136	Ivan Fuksa started it. That's one. He came up with a disease fund and began to rotate the livestock support scheme. We continued. It's in this material, it's right, and there's a line, a lot of nonsense, for which, unfortunately, the committee, as you said, didn't vote. But a billion - that statement could be carved. A billion is big money. Maybe not for Agrofert, then. But for the agricultural sector, believe me, if an ordinary peasant hears this, he'll have to turn the knife in his pocket.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u137	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u138	Thank you. I am asking for an understanding of Mr Faltýnek through Madam President. And I'm able to understand his sigh that he hasn't learned anything new. But please understand, as long as it's clear that none of the old ones have ever been heard, let alone understood, let alone thought about it, there's no point in saying anything new. That's a major teaching lesson. First, we have to understand the old one. And the old one is simple, and it just sits on the table. What is the greater budgetary priority? What is a greater priority for the Czech Republic? Science and research, support of science and research, or support of the Agrofert Group's balance sheet? This is logically based on the amendments made by my colleagues. We will simply support current consumption and cash flow of Agrofert Group in 2014, or we will support science and research. Those are the two options we have. That's all we have. We cannot support both if we want to be budgetaryly responsible. And you have a choice to make. I understand it's nothing new. It's even very old. Conflict of interest is a very old problem. It even involved Egyptian pharaohs. You have to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u139	Mr Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u140	Excuse me, please. I'll translate it for you. Because Mr. Faltýnek said out of anger from his desk that it was enough to say it three times. No, please, I'm willing to say it 30 times. I'm willing to say it 50 times! It is an obligation of opposition policy at a time when for some reason it has good reason to keep quiet the media scene. When, for some reason, they have good reason to keep quiet some citizens' initiatives that have previously seen corruption around every corner. This is a deal with obvious corruption consequences, and it is the duty of opposition policy to draw attention to them three, five, a hundred times!
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u141	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Laudát is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd say a few things here. First of all, in live television today, the current member of the ČSSD, Mr Zavadil, has already handed over to Kalousek the book Start-Up Nation. There's talk of an Israeli economic miracle. I would ask you to get this book, and then maybe you'll understand what we're talking about. What accelerates GDP growth, which stagnates more or less in the Czech Republic after 2000. If you think you're gonna do it with some food self-sufficiency and stuff like that that in the past, I'm convinced of it, in today's globalised market, the worst thing is that we can get away with it and we're gonna miss a train so fast that no one's gonna take anything on you. And when Mr. Pilný here said that Kalousek doesn't know what he's talking about. You see, here in the last part of the last part, huge debates took place with this House, with the exception of social democracy, all the other parties and Members supported a huge amendment to the Law on regulated funds. It is in this context that there have been huge debates as to why these new financial instruments in our society - by the way, the European Union is ordering us to take over these standards - why they are and how we could derive from them what we are in. That we are almost the worst in Europe after Albania in direct financial instruments for innovation. So I'm just gonna cut this short because it's hard to explain here, it's a huge, complex issue. But we know what we want. And by the way, if you look at the program documents of the 2nd Council of the TOP 09, you will find competitiveness there, and you will also find a very key thesis there. We advocate and think that the only hope for this country in terms of economics is a technologically oriented society with environmentally friendly production. So please don't attack us that we don't know what we're talking about. We know what we're talking about, you don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u143	With another factual Mrs Jourová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u144	That's just it, unfortunately, that we're just talking. I met with the promoters just the ideas of the Start-Up Nation from Israel, because I was very interested in how Israel's economic miracle was created. It wasn't me who called the meeting. They were - hopefully not a diplomatic problem - representatives of the Israeli embassy who told me: "We do not understand why this is impossible in the Czech Republic. Čech, Czech Republic are in TOP 5 of our main foreign partners. We are willing to rush in with good advice and with a clear briefing on how to implement the idea of Start-Up Nation in the Czech Republic. And why it can't be done." And these people told me: "We look forward to changing the political course, because we want it not only to be spoken but also to take action. " So it's just in the reminiscence of this conversation. A brief remark on Professor Fial. Please be assured that I know a lot about European funds and especially about those that flow or do not pass through the Ministry of Education. I have written a number of projects myself, and I know what landmines are there for applicants and how our scientists are forced to write thousands of-page feasibility studies in both Czech and English, so that these are placed under the table and not financed. It's a rather complex material, I admit, but really the drawing is at risk. And last comment on Mr Kalousek through Madam President: I propose a shortcut with reference to the Roman Senate. Perhaps it would be enough to say, "Agrofert must be destroyed." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u145	In fact, I have Mr Gabal's registration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u146	I only wanted to see you through, Madam President, my colleague Laudát. If I am not mistaken, we are chronically around two percent of GDP per school below the OECD average five from the end and in the long term. The scope for that strategic turnaround was in the past decade. For some reason, we didn't decide on him, we didn't do it, even in the past period. We talked about this before the election with a colleague of mine, Fiala. There have been severe cuts to the school budget, wages, etc. That was when he joined the Ministry. And I don't want to explore motives, but if we were to go strategically forward, through education out of the crisis, that time was just in the last two periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u147	Thank you. Another is Mr Petr Fiala, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u148	Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say, through Madam President, to Mrs Jourová, that when she mentioned the above-standard cooperation of the Czech Republic and the State of Israel in the field of research and education, it was thanks to the previous government. And I can confirm that we have superior cooperation here. For example, the GESHER/MOST program works. Cooperation in the field of education works. We set up Masaryk Chair, we set up Herzl Chair. There are many examples. I really cannot imagine that Israeli colleagues who have developed this cooperation with us feel that they have not done enough under our government in the Czech-Israeli research and education relations. So I hope it's just from your side that you don't understand what the Israeli colleagues have been saying. [[18.00 hours]] With regard to the European Structural Funds and their drawing on them, I have experience from all roles, from the role of the solver, from the role of the beneficiary and from the role of the managing authority. Of course, in some aspects it is difficult to achieve these resources and sometimes drawing is not optimal, but the Ministry of Education has done a great deal especially in the last year to make the funds run out as best as possible. I think things have started to work out, and in the operational programme that we have prepared for the next programming period, things are already set from experience with this programming period in order to exhaust them well. So I don't think you're right about this either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u149	Thank you. With another factual fact, Mr Laudát is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, only to Mr Gabala, that I was talking about something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u151	Mr Stanjura is signed up with another de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u152	That is how we got into a more detailed debate on European funds. Mrs Jourová said 2007, 2013. We all use it - 2007, 2013. Let us remember when operational programmes were approved. We could not start drawing on 1 January 2007, as we will not start drawing on 1 January 2014. First of all. Two. Inconvenient structure, on which all actually agree today, 24 operational programs were made by non-right governments. This is also forgotten in holy enthusiasm, who is to blame for all this. And, of course, we can fence numbers and say how wrong it is. I'm from the Czech-Polish border. I know how Polish colleagues draw, and they deal with their possible disputes in Poland. In our country it became a national sport that we run for each other to sue in Brussels. Then we're so surprised we're not pumping. I guarantee that from the program, and these are small things, from the Czech-Polish borderlands the Polish party approved projects that would never pass in the Czech Republic. No thanks to Brussels, but thanks to our officials, that means the middle level, such as the Centre for Regional Development and the like. And let's not worry about numbers being paid off. It's due by the end of 2015, so if we have to say it all. How much was the allocation, how much was approved, how much was paid from national sources, how much was refunded. I don't want to underestimate it, but here again for the last two or three years thanks to the opposition out there, to be fair and not to tell those who haven't been here, as if who's gonna say a bigger number, he's gonna be a bigger hero. [[shows left]] We're gonna lose 20, 30, 40, 50 billion. 100 billion. I heard we were coming. Instead of having fun, do we have effective programs? Are these projects effective? Well, they're not! Municipalities and cities do projects for what they can draw, not for what cities and municipalities need. And in that we were not united as political representatives -
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u153	Ambassador, I'm sorry. Time limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u154	- to be able to negotiate better terms. But we're fascinated by baby diapers! The last two sentences, so I don't have to report back. The Republic of Poland negotiated, after the entry into force, to postpone the ecological limits on the rock - heavy industry. I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region, and we negotiated a VAT discount on children's diapers. Look at one and the other, how this affects employment and the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u155	With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u156	Thank you, Madam President. If you don't mind, two comments on Mrs Jourová's speech. I leave aside that the MP just doesn't go through his mouth. Please, as I asked Vice-President Jermanová, call me, Madam President, rather Mirka. I know you're sorry I'm the MP. But the voters had a different opinion, rather dramatically. The far more important point is that perhaps I am saying: I also believe that Agrofert should be destroyed. I've never said anything like that in all the years that Agrofert existed here. I merely dare to say that - and, moreover, I believe as a constitutional official responsible for public funds - public funds must not be given priority to Agrofert at the expense of someone else. After all, that's my job, and that's what I was elected here with. It's not just about Agrofert. From a certain point of view, I stress, we can see public budgets as an eternal battle of a well-organized minority who wants to cut more from the pie than it belonged to, is and will belong to, and an unorganized majority that makes the pie and which is called taxpayers. It is then a matter of every policy on which the barricade wants to stand, whether it wants to stand on the side of an organized minority or an unorganized majority. The organized minority is part of the future government by God's permission. We must defend the unorganized majority. And we will defend it very hard, very forcefully, very strongly, regardless of whether or not you want to call us Mr. Ambassador, and whether or not you want to pretend that you have nothing to do with Agrofert. It's just obvious. If 5 per cent of all means of operation is collected and the only amount it doesn't touch is subsidies to the agrifood complex, and on the other hand, what is decreasing is resources for science and research, there can be nothing more glaring here! And what you might want from us as a future opposition to say: We believe that the priorities are elsewhere, that the priorities of the Czech Republic are not in the society that gave birth to you, but in the science and research of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u157	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Komárek is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u158	I don't know. I don't think it's worth it. But I would just like to say that the organized minority Mr Kalousek was in before he began defending the interests of the disorganized majority, the disorganized majority said that he didn't want it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u159	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala is entered into the debate with due regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u160	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I have made many technical remarks before, but I did not make it with a proper amendment, I did not make it in time. So allow me to go from another keg to another chapter rather than science and research and agriculture. The purpose of this amendment to the Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 is to provide the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the means to encourage long-term unemployed persons to establish their own business or business. Under the conditions of the increasing number of unemployed persons, according to the figures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, their number exceeded 565 thousand in November 2013 and the declining number of job vacancies that these persons could apply for, again according to the figures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the number of job vacancies in November 2013 fell to approximately 37 thousand, inevitably the phenomenon called long-term unemployment is growing. Long-term unemployment brings not only negative economic consequences, but can also be a source of social problems and increase the risk of criminal offences. Long-term unemployed people lose their work habits and professional qualifications. At the same time, their chances of succeeding in a job interview are falling. [[18.10 hours]] The purpose of this amendment is to provide long-term unemployed persons with space to start a business or start their own business. To this end, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should issue one-off financial support to help those concerned cover the necessary initial costs and relieve themselves from the social support system. The impact of this measure should be a decline in the number of long-term unemployed persons and an increase in the number of self-employed persons, as well as an increase in the number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thus, the number of people dependent on the social system is to decline in the long term and, on the contrary, the number of taxpayers is to increase. I therefore submit to Amendment 142, where it is 500 miles. CZK from Chapter 396 - Government debt service to Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on active employment policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-003-018.u161	Thank you, too. Since no one else is going into the debate, this is the end of the debate. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. I'm closing the negotiations on paragraph 18. The next item is:
