ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-009-008.u1	8. Proposal for the establishment of the number of Members in Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-consular organisations First, a proposal to determine the number of Members in Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-European organisations. Parliament of the Czech Republic is represented, i.e. both chambers of Parliament, by its permanent delegations in the following inter-European organisations: firstly, in the Inter-European Union, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in the Central European Initiative. I'd like some peace, colleagues and colleagues! The number of members of these permanent delegations shall be determined by the rules of procedure or by the internal rules of each interinstitutional organisation. Permanent delegations to inter-European organisations shall be composed of members of the two chambers of Parliament. The Chamber of Deputies must determine the number of Members in each permanent delegation. During the last parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies was represented in individual delegations as follows: the Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union had eight Members, ten Members in Parliament's permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, five of which became a member and five with an alternate status. In Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, five Members, four of them with the status of a member and one with the status of an alternate. In Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there were ten Members, five of which were members and five with an alternate. There were five MEPs in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Central European initiative, three of them with the status of a member and two with the status of an alternate. I therefore propose to adopt the following resolution: Chamber of Deputies 1. Notes that the Parliament of the Czech Republic is represented by its permanent delegations in the Interinstitutional Union, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Central European Initiative; 2. it shall determine the number of Members in each Parliament's permanent delegation as stated in the previous. I'm opening up a debate and asking who's applying. I do not have a written application for a debate. Not even members who have commuted to the Mediterranean initiative are reporting, so I am ending the general debate and opening the debate in detail, which I also have no application for, nor is anyone reporting in. [[Central European?]] So I also conclude the detailed debate. I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution that I have read and where there was no amendment, in the 26 series vote that I have just begun. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 26 of the 187 present for 168, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted and we have set up a permanent delegation from the Chamber of Deputies and have determined the number of members of each permanent interinstitutional delegation. We will now look at the next point in our negotiations. It's...
